ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u1	Abort registration. There's no quorum. In half an hour, a new registration. Discovered at 9:33 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u2	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. [[Noise and excitement.]] First, let's start with a message: an application from Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov, Member of the National Assembly: "Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable gentlemen co-chairs of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group! On the basis of art. 14, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I declare my will to leave the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group in the Forty-third National Assembly. Respectfully, Stanislav Ivanov. We start with the intended point one for today, namely: LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX, First Voting. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs has the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! Presenting: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on amendments and amendments to the Election Code No 654-01-97, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 27 July 2016; No 654-01-113, submitted by Radan Milenov Kanev, Atanas Petrov Atanasov and Borisov Stanimirov on 11 October 2016; No 654-01-114, submitted by Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov and a group of MPs on 11 October 2016; No 654-01-116, submitted by Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov, Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov on 14 October 2016; No 654-01-118, submitted by Filip Stefanov Popov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on 14 October 2016; No 654-01-19, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Danilov Dimitrov Kirilov, Rumenov. Kazakh on 17 October 2016 At its meeting held on 19 October 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Vassily Takev, Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Svetlana Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law and Mr. Ilarion Ilarionov, Advisor of the Minister; from the Central Election Commission: Mrs. Ivilina Alexieva, Chairman, Mrs. Sevinc Solakova, Secretary, and Mr. Ivaylo Ivkov, Member; Mr. Stoil Stoilov, Member of the Public Council of the Central Election Commission, and Mrs. Eva Marcheva from the Association. The National Representative Velizar Enchev presented the draft amendments to the Election Code No 654-01-97 and No 654-01-121. He pointed out that they are aimed at countries where, at the time of the announcement of the election, emergency or martial law was introduced, no electoral stations were allowed to be formed and elections were held, as well as the cancellation of the mandatory vote and the box. The bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-113, was presented by the National Representative Boris Stanimirov, who noted that it proposes the lifting of the restrictions introduced for the detection of section election committees outside the country. National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov presented the reasons of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-114, proposing that the total number of polling stations formed in one country should not exceed 55. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-116, presented by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov, aims to refine Annex 2 to art. 312 The method for determining the results of the vote for President and Vice President of the Republic. People's Representative Filip Popov presented Draft No 654-01-18, pointing out the need to cancel the box. The bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-19, was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. He noted that it aims to reduce the limit of 35 polling stations in a Member State of the European Union. The bill allows for voting stations outside the country, with a decision of the Central Election Commission, including on election day, for paper ballot voting to be possible with more than one electoral box. Regarding the box, I do not support anyone. It is suggested that the rule be confirmed in all types of elections when determining the result to take this vote into account as valid. The bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-120, was presented by the MP Georgi Kadiev. The bill aims at abolishing mandatory voting, dropping the box. I do not support anyone and removing the restrictions on forming polling stations outside the country. It is proposed that, in conducting different types of elections on the same date, the selection committees covering the same voters should be housed in a common room and that voters are served simultaneously all ballots with which they can exercise their right to vote. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-122, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan, aims to abolish mandatory voting and restore the repealed rules for forming sections abroad. It is proposed that the election campaign should be conducted in another language, providing for translation into Bulgarian. The Bill for Supplement to the Election Code No 654 01 123 was presented by the MP Dimitar Delchev. He noted that it aims to remove the limit for revealing more than 35 sections in EU member states, which will enable many Bulgarians to exercise their right to vote. With the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-124, presented by Daniel Kirilov, is proposed for the majority elections for mayors and for the President and Vice President of the Republic in the methods for determining the results to respect the weight of the vote reflected in the box. National Representative Chetin Kazak presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-125, stressing that it aims to abolish compulsory voting and restore the repealed rules for forming sections abroad. The proposed Draft proposes the box "I do not support anyone falling out of the Election Code. It is envisaged that the election campaign will be conducted in another language, providing for translation into Bulgarian. During the discussion of the drafts, MPs Mihail Mikov, Philip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Hamid Hamid and Cetin Kazak expressed their support for dropping the mandatory vote and the box. MPs Petar Slavov, Dimitar Delchev, Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov expressed their basic support for dropping the limit of formation of polling stations in Member States of the European Union. People's representative Danail Kirilov noted that in his decision the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the mandatory vote does not violate the fundamental constitutional freedoms, as it is only mandatory to go to the polling section and the voter is free not to vote and can release an empty or invalid ballot. Representatives of the Central Election Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took part in the discussion. Ms. Ivilina Aleksieva pointed out that if the reading of the result of the box changes, I do not support anyone, this will affect the methodical guidelines, the election plan, the training of the section and district election committees, the explanatory campaign and the product of the service. She noted that removing the box "I do not support anyone" would lead to the printing of new ballots, which would cost more than 2 million. lv. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 3 votes for the election, 6 votes against the electoral code, and 6 votes abstentions is proposed by the National Assembly not to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 654-01-97, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 27 July 2016; - with 3 votes "for", 3 votes against........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 1 vote for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 2 votes "for", 3 votes against........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 5 votes for the election code, No 654-01-18, introduced Philip Stefanov Popov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on 14 October 2016; - with 10 votes "for", 8 votes against and without abstention..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 3 votes....... 4 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 6 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 3 votes....... 4 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 11 votes for the election code, No 654-01-123, submitted by Dimitar Andreev Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev, Antonyev Trenchev, Borislav Lyubenov Velev and Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski on 17 October 2016. - with 11 votes "for", 6 votes against abstention...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 6 votes for the vote, 4 votes against the vote and 7 votes abstention proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 654-01-125, submitted by Chetin Hussein Kazak on 17 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u4	And thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. My fellow Members, as you have heard, in the Commission report, we have 12 amendments and amendments to the Election Code, of which the Commission supports three, and the other nine have been rejected. Any importer wishing to justify his amendment and supplement bill will now take the floor. Before that, the procedure. People's representative Philip Popov of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll make two procedural proposals. In view of the fact and the fact that we are beyond all reasonable deadlines, making these amendments, and in view of the harmful consequences and the results of these amendments with regard to the organisation of the elections, I am making a procedural proposal here in this Chamber to be invited and to attend the debate on the vote, the President of the Central Election Commission. My second proposal is the debate and the vote on this. 1 of today's program "The Election Code" to be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. A reverse opinion? I won't. Either way, I will only put to the vote your second proposal, because on your first proposal, I will rather ask the Administration to notify the CEC, but representatives of the CEC have attended the Commission meeting and their opinion has it integrated into the report. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to broadcast the debate on this point. 1 of today's agenda on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. They voted 129 MPs: 49, against 25, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. On behalf of an importer, colleagues, come in. Mr. Enchev, you go first. [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB.: The second procedure?]] In the second procedure, I have explained to you that I have asked the Secretariat to notify the Central Election Commission if they wish to order. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Enchev, come in. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u7	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u8	I gave Mr. Enchev my word. You have submitted two bills as an importer, you can report them both. [[Reply from the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.]] You want to plead them separately, you have the right to rule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 27 July this year, I submitted a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, so I hope none of you will accuse me of using this tribune for other purposes. [[You're using it! You're using it!]] I propose in § 1 of art. 11 to create a new paragraph to read: In countries where, at the time of the announcement of the date of elections, extraordinary and/or martial law was introduced, no electoral stations and elections were allowed. What are the reasons for this amendment and addition to the Election Code? Honourable Members, elections at polling stations abroad must take place in conditions of democracy and strict respect for two international legal acts. The first is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, announced by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 1948. The birth of the United Nations itself. The second international legal act is the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was ratified by the National Assembly on 31 July 1992. You understand that elections in countries with exceptional and/or martial law are suspended and this does not allow for the normal functioning of both the election campaign and the electoral process itself. To be up-to-date, I will tell you that since yesterday in the Republic of Turkey, the state of emergency has been extended for three months, and it will be until 19 January 2017. Currently, Turkey has been arrested, interrogated, fired, tried over 100,000. Souls. This is official information from the Turkish authorities. Now the most important is the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Bulgaria from yesterday with an official announcement recommending to the Bulgarian citizens planning a visit to Istanbul, Ankara, Antalia, Izmir, Gaziantep.................................................................................... to address the situation in the Republic of Turkey............................................................................................................................................... Something even more important with the decision of Ankara's regional governor since yesterday was introduced a ban on the implementation of mass events in the city for security reasons by the end of November 2016. Sami understands the parliamentary elections are on 6 November 2016; and the election campaign should already be underway. I suggest that you adopt my bill because I repeat once again, it is not normal in contradiction with international law to hold elections in countries where these two important international legal acts are suspended. If you reject my proposal, of course, which I expect, bear in mind that the elections in Turkey will not only be conducted in abnormal circumstances, but will be manipulated again in any case. If one of the importers' offer is accepted today, there will be more than one urn in each polling section, which is 5, 6, 10, 12, I cannot judge. Will it be possible to control these urns in one polling section, provided that observers from the Republic of Bulgaria can not be sent anywhere in the Republic of Turkey? I believe that my proposal is fully in line with both national and international legislation. I do not need to put forward any more arguments and rely on your support for this bill of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u10	You have six more minutes, you can use them for the other bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u11	I have to go get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u12	We'll wait for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u13	Yes, thank you. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u14	Let the argument be concluded on behalf of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 17 October this year, I tabled a Law amending the Election Code, in which I propose a change in six points. In the first two, in order not to go into detail, I propose in art. 3, para. 1 sentence second to be amended as follows: the vote is personal and, in fact, my proposal is to drop a sentence second, which reads: "Vote is mandatory, carried out personally by the voter and represents the fulfilment of his civic debt." In the other two points, the proposed amendments to art. Art. 3 and Art. 242 represents the mandatory vote, which, honourable Members, is contrary to the constitutional norm which requires that the vote is a right and not an obligation. Therefore, I believe that the transformation of law into obligation is anti-constitutional, which is why this text in the Election Code should be repealed. The other four amendments that I propose concern the so-called square I do not support anyone. But I am immediately making the clarification: the square I do not support anyone is the result of the mandatory vote you have put in place and supported, which was entirely at the initiative of the Patriotic Front. So the problem, the basis, the root of the problem is mandatory voting. That's why I'm suggesting what's called a square. I don't support anyone falling out. Why? Firstly, it has a critical role to play in the four per cent barrier to entry into the National Assembly, for the one per cent barrier to the so-called'subsidies for the parties', and also for the so-called 'calling candidates', which now, if this proposal for the box is accepted, will be completely eliminated. I merely make one clarification supposed for the last 26 years the National Assembly has not entered any independent parliament. This box will also theoretically eliminate the possibility of independent MPs in this Parliament. I merely specify that there are many, even dozens of independent MPs in all the other parliaments of the European Union. So to sum up: the text in the box will not support anyone and will have a killer effect on small parties, which will have no chance for either the elections for national or European Parliament, as well as local elections. Because after 27 years of extremely unfair economic transition, which led to a deep social spread, tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, not to say hundreds of thousands, are disgusted by this system and they will logically prefer this box, which, however, will not have the power of a protest vote, but will actually benefit, will serve those against which citizens protest. That's why there's one conclusion. It is not democratic to change texts in the Election Code that have worked well. Secondly, I join the opinion of Mr. Popov of the Bulgarian Socialist Party that amendments to the Election Law are to be made a few days before the parliamentary elections are held, and it is a gross violation of the Venice Convention, which says that six months before elections are held, whether for a national parliament, whether for a president, whether it is not appropriate for the European Parliament to make changes to the basic Law on Elections. That is why I propose that in this Bill two things should be cast the mandatory vote as an anti-constitutional vote; and secondly, to remove the so-called "quadrace." I rely on your political morality and desire in Bulgaria to have a real democracy and not just democracy for elected parties in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Mr. Popov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making the same procedural proposal again. Here the issue is not to invite a representative of the CEC, in this case the President, but to oblige him to come to attend, with an even stronger reason for attending representatives of the CEC in the Legal Commission. They can be asked questions from MPs who have not been present in the Legal Commission regarding the organisation of the CEC in relation to the upcoming elections, regarding how much these changes will cost in the Election Code of the Treasury and the CEC as a financial resource, such as human potential and so on. Please put this proposal to the vote and the National Assembly to decide whether or not to invite the President of the CEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u18	A reverse opinion? I'll just let you know that the CEC Secretariat has already been informed. The option for them to come to the coulombs and we to vote admission in the hall, I think, suggests that they are more easily involved. Either way, I'm going to respect you now and put the procedural proposal to the vote if that's what you want. Honourable Members, invitation and admission procedure in the Chamber of Representatives of the CEC. But you didn't specify who they were.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u19	The chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u20	All right, CEC chairman. Please vote regime. They voted 93 MPs: 53, Against 7, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Before we continue with an importer, honourable Members, to inform you that we have women from Glavinitsa Municipality, Silistra District on the balcony. [[Applause.]] The amendments to the Election Code concern them. We continue with an argument on behalf of Boris Stanimirov, Member of Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, ladies of the municipality of Glavinitsa! Our bill proposes lifting 35 sections in a country for elections. Our argument is as follows: from the very beginning, when this decision was proposed, we objected that it makes no sense because, firstly, it puts all countries under a common denominator, without taking into account the specifics in their size and in the Bulgarian community that lives and resides there. This boundary of 35 sections places the huge United States with 35 sections, and the small Luxembourg also with 35 sections; it places under a common denominator neighbouring Greece, in which there is a huge Bulgarian community living and working there, with a huge Indonesia in which there are almost no Bulgarians. No one was able to explain why the number 35 was chosen why it was not 34 or 36 sections. We thought that this was a weak solution and because it did not meet the main objective which was proclaimed by the people who defended it, namely reducing the influence of the vote by a particular neighbouring country on Bulgarian politics and the possibilities for wrong and wrong interference in the Bulgarian internal policy during the elections in the Republic of Turkey. A few days ago, when the deadline for registering applications for votes abroad and registering sections for the upcoming elections expired, we saw some interesting numbers. In Turkey, from which we expected a very large voting activity to take place, voting applications were submitted in 37 sections. Note only two sections more than this limit of 35, which applies in the current Code. At the same time, only in the UK applications are for 46 sections. We see 11 sections more than this limit. That is, we see that the number 35 practically does not limit the vote in Turkey, but becomes a serious brake for the opportunities and wishes of the Bulgarians in Britain to exercise their right to vote. It's just Britain. I have no statistics in the other countries of Western Europe and in North America how many of the requested sections exceed the set threshold of 35. Here's another reason why we think the limit should be dropped. It does not essentially reduce the burden of voting in Turkey. Moreover, our view and our deep conviction is that the way to reduce the weight of the vote in Turkey is not by limiting all Bulgarian citizens, but, on the contrary, by encouraging increasing activity and participation of Bulgarians abroad in the electoral process so that the weight of the vote in Turkey becomes relatively smaller than that of other Bulgarians abroad. And this thing is very clearly seen if we compare the results of electoral activity in 2013 and 2014. We have a very visible growth of activity of Bulgarians in Western Europe and North America in this period. In 2014 a total of 144 990 Bulgarian citizens voted abroad. In Western Europe and North America, we see growth compared to 2013. Half and more Bulgarians voted in Western Europe and North America. In some countries, such as the United States, growth is up to three times more Bulgarians voted in 2014 compared to 2013. At the same time, in the same period, for the same two choices for the first time in our new history we have a reduction in Turkey's vote by 5% less people voted in Turkey in 2014 than in 2013. That is why we believe and deeply believe that the way to solve this problem, which worries a lot of colleagues and which was a major argument for introducing this restriction, is precisely to encourage, to support the active participation of Bulgarians abroad in the electoral process, Bulgarians in Western Europe, in the United States and in Canada. Not only because it is their constitutional right, which we have no right to take and restrict, because they are an integral part of the Bulgarian nation and should be treated in this way, but also because their vote is practically useful for the political process in Bulgaria. We should encourage it, even more so, at a time when within Bulgaria the political system, the elections are still unpopular and face increasing criticism in society. At the moment when people refuse to vote and are very critical of the political process, we allow ourselves people who have enthusiasm and desire, and show it this enthusiasm is collected are signatures, documents for registering sections, have expressed a desire to vote, with any such restriction to stop them. We believe that this is a short-sighted solution. I see that there is a move on to a decision which partially corrects this injustice, namely in the countries of the European Union, to allow for an unlimited number of sections. This may be a good temporary solution, but let us bear in mind that negotiations are currently under way for Britain's exit from the European Union. That is, perhaps within just two years the Bulgarians in the UK, whom I have quoted at the moment, will fall back into the restrictions and then we will have to make changes to this Code again. That is why we appeal to the limit of 35 sections to drop out and to show care and understanding towards the increasing participation of Bulgarians abroad in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. We heard your motives. Next statement on behalf of an importer? The MP Mr. Lutvi Mestan from the non-members of a parliamentary group of colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. President, I think the words have become redundant in this Parliament........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, I still believe that in Parliament there should be talk in order to remain both in the protocol the warnings of both the opposition and the honourable MPs who, even when discussing this Election Code, which we are now, two weeks before the vote, have warned that it is full of unconstitutional texts. The great lesson for all of us, and especially for this ruling majority, is that your conjuncture, internal coalition problems cannot be solved through unconstitutional texts in the laws, especially when it comes to the Election Code. What did you do in the previous amendment to the Election Code? In order to serve the party interest of the extreme nationalists, GERB and the Reformation bloc, which supposedly are system parties in the EPP, you have adopted an absolutely insane limitation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens by introducing a restriction outside the country to vote only in diplomatic representations. You couldn't stand the pressure of the Bulgarians from Western Europe and introduced a second limitation... top 35 sections. Even then, we warned you it wouldn't last because it was unconstitutional. In my speech, I have revealed the true design of this restriction. The aim was not the European Union at all then! The target is not the United States of America! The aim is the Republic of Turkey.. these several hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens! And I'm sure that if there was how, only I don't think there's a chance that you would also come to the cynicism to reflect that everywhere is voted according to the number requested to exercise their right to vote and to reveal sections, except for the Republic of Turkey, because there are some other Bulgarian citizens living there. Such a nuance was in the presentation of the previous Law in the position of a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block! The other Bulgarians to vote so much that the vote of those there will be of no importance! Are these second-rate people out of the high tribune? Those there are equal Bulgarian citizens, an integral part of the Bulgarian people and Bulgarian civil society, and their denial of the right to vote is a new revival process for one reason only. If the previous revival processes of 1971, 1973, 1984, 1989, took away faith and name, now with this limitation 35 sections for nearly 300,000 full-fledged Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights You deprive them of the practice of voting rights because there is no way 300,000 to vote in 35 sections, even if they want to! And since they won't be able to do that in two consecutive choices, you will wipe them off the electoral lists! This is not a deletion from the electoral lists. This is a political exclusion of a significant part of the Bulgarian nation, the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian civil society! A crime that can't stand it! He's not gonna make it through the time assessment. Just as the introduction of the binding vote aimed to solve the internal coalition problem, namely to keep the so-called "patriots" -- extreme nationalists in the ruling majority, because without them you cannot keep your ministerial chairs, and you adopted the principle of introducing the mandatory vote, so now again, even though perfectly bleak Mrs. Tsacheva said on Tuesday that even if there are only two or three Bulgarian citizens anywhere in the world, they should be able to vote! This was the authentic position of Ms. Tsacheva and GERB. You got together, you twisted their arms. This does not exonerate colleagues from GERB. Their responsibility is the greatest because they are the largest political party. There can be no compromise with democratic principles, with the right of even one citizen, let alone 300,000, for the sake of power. Power is no higher than democratic principles, the rights of even a single Bulgarian citizen, and therefore this restriction will not withstand the assessment of history and time. As far as our other proposal is concerned, the ban on the use of other languages has been lifted. This restriction is contrary to something that is higher than domestic law, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, and therefore, if you hear me speaking in the official language tomorrow and with a compulsory translation, congratulate the voters and your mother tongue, even if you impose 15 thousand fines, the Strasbourg court will cancel them. That's why I brought this case. Sooner or later, this will be over, impossible in the light of international law and natural human rights, in the light of international law, and this restriction will be dropped! I call on you to drop now, not on the pressure of the court in Strasbourg, but now, as an act of democratic growth of the Bulgarian Parliament. Let us solve it with our domestic national resources, not the force of coercion, because such coercion will exist, as there cannot even be an act adopted by constitutional order to violate rights. This is briefly the philosophy of the draft proposed by us together with the idea of dropping the mandatory vote. And in short, for the mandatory vote, I will complete the presentation of the Bill. The only motive we have heard about the introduction of the mandatory vote is that voter turnout was getting lower and this discredited the representativeness of these elected MPs. Dear colleagues, if voter turnout is low, and therefore our representativeness is not sufficiently representative of the tautology, then the reason for this is not in the citizen who does not vote, the reason is in us first, pointing to ourselves, in each of us, in our insufficient political adequacy, in the system vices of Bulgarian democracy and politics, for which we are guilty. And it is a matter of political cynicism that this responsibility from us be transferred to the voter, that he be punished by transforming a constitutional right into an obligation. If we want higher activity, we will reform ourselves first. We will become more adequate, and from there, of our own free will, more and more voters will go out to vote. What we do is cynical. We turn the responsibility from us to the voter and we say: you may not like us, you may disgust us, but even with disgust, you will vote because we will oblige you. That's unconstitutional, too. Thank you for your attention. I know those words are unnecessary, but they have to be said until not only open your senses, but you can hear us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Next is a presentation of the bill submitted by Mr. Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Undoubtedly, the Election Code is one of the most important laws, undoubtedly effective democracy, fair democracy without fair elections and objective elections could not be a priority for a democratic society. In this sense, I would like to say that, with this Bill, we take into account the possibility, firstly, to eliminate the concerns of the Bulgarian society, that in terms of presidential or mayorial elections, i.e. majority elections, it is possible to obtain the possibility of manipulation or corrupt vote on the line that the newly introduced box is not supporting anyone and that it is being subtracted in practice from the calculation as a valid voice, would distort a possible electoral process in terms of majority vote. This bill came true after the meeting of the parliamentary groups, which support the majority, and besides me there are signatures of colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the Patriotic Front. In it, we would like, as I said, first of all, to define such an opportunity not only with regard to the presidential vote, but also with regard to the mayor's elections, because the situation is the same there too. As regards the specific texts, we propose in § 1, in Annex No 2, to art. 312, p. 2 words, except those referred to in art. 333, para. 1, t. 7s to be obliterated. In practice, it is a bill that has already been tabled. And in § 2, Annex 4 to art. 452, para. 1, ct. 3 words except those referred to in art. 438 para. 1, t. 7s to be obliterated. We are proposing, in fact, for the two types of majority elections, those for mayors and those for president and vice president, in the methodologies for determining the results to respect the gravity of the negative vote, reflected in the box, I do not support anyone. This vote shall be considered valid and calculated when determining the result. Only for colleagues who are not obliged to know the details of the bills and for the public to say that this does not violate the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament in relation to proportionate elections, because if these texts are applied to parliamentary elections, the barrier to entry into the Bulgarian Parliament would rise from 4 to 6 to 7, even to 8%, which is obviously not a good attestation for effective democracy and effective representation in the Bulgarian Parliament. The preservation of the barrier of 4% would actually allow for a more active debate here in the Bulgarian Parliament, and more active representation of more trends in the Bulgarian society and more political forces, and the road that Bulgaria is going on in terms of both our Euro-Atlantic orientation and our desire to achieve a mid-European quality of life means an active, broad debate both in the Bulgarian Parliament and in all state institutions. I would like to conclude with the hope that the MPs from all the parliamentary groups will support this general bill of reformation, GERB and the Patriotic Front with the idea and presidential elections that are coming, and the mayorial elections for mayors of municipalities and mayors of settlements, to be as transparent as possible, to be as honest as possible and not to leave in society the impression of an attempt to manipulate or for unfair results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u26	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. National Representative Dimitar Delchev will have the opportunity to present the introduced Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the bill that we have tabled with colleagues from the Reformation Block provides for a solution to some extent to the opening of sections abroad. We provide that in the Member States of the European Union, sections are to be found in unlimited quantities so that the problems we are currently seeing are somehow addressed. What do I mean? At this time, more than seven thousand applications have been submitted to the UK. As you well know, 60 applications are required to open a section. In so-called applications, we receive signals from the UK that 35 sections are insufficient so that Bulgarian citizens there can exercise their ability to vote in these elections easily enough and correctly. In this situation, it seems logical to introduce such differentiation between the Member States of the European Union and the other countries in the same way as there is such division with regard to the elections to the European Parliament, that is, we propose something already known to the Bulgarian legislation and the Election Code. Thus, this problem, which exists, is solved in an elegant way. I hope that all my fellow Members here will support this decision and that, in the Member States of the European Union, it will not act. With regard to all other bills, I hope that we will again adopt a good solution. The issue of the box of these elections is seriously discussed, but ultimately the consequences of it will be solved with the general bill, which we propose together with GERB and the Patriotic Front. Dear colleagues, there has been a lot of talk about whether these changes are being made at the moment are necessary and correct. I believe that when there is a problem the National Assembly should solve this problem and not pretend that it does not hear, see, and do nothing. Yes, I agree that in the last six months before the elections, there should be no major, substantial, valuable changes to the Election Code, but here we are talking about something quite different. Here we are talking about fixing the problem of sections and fixing the problem of counting the box in presidential and local elections. [[BSP LB.]] I hope, however much they call their colleagues to the left, they still show reason. There is still a long way to go until the end of the debate and to support the sensible decisions with which these elections will go in a normal and correct way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. People's representative Danail Kirilov. You are welcome to present the reasons of the bills you have submitted. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the order of presentation has changed. Obviously, we don't follow the chronology of billing. I will present the Bill, which I have signed, colleagues Krasimir Velchev, Alexander Nenkov, Georg Georgiev, Stanislav Ivanov, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov. The first group of changes shall cover the rules of art. 14 by proposing two amendments in respect of art. 14. The first amendment concerns the border of 35 polling stations and we propose that it is not relevant to the Member States of the European Union. We justify this proposal by the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria is also a member of the European Union and together with the other Member States we are implementing a number of Community rules. We have bodies operating at Union level, we have continuous communication, including the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights. Then I'll take the liberty of saying a few words in this regard. The second group of proposals with regard to art. 14 concerns the introduction for the first time of a rule, which we repeatedly commented in April, May and June to the Legal Commission. It concerns the possibility to vote in more than one ballot box in a polling section. This option would help, if there is such a polling section where there are many voters who want to vote, prevent delay, prevent aggravation of the electoral process. This option in practice enables at one point the voting speed to double, by two. We believe that this possibility is also a way to prevent certain expected abuses in the conduct of the electoral process in some places. We do not rule out the possibility of prepared, motivated voters trying to create turmoil and suggestion, waiting outside the polls. In our view, this possibility is very intense and we have given its application to all countries and to all sections, that is, it can apply both to the countries of the European Union and to the countries outside the European Union and to the sections which are in diplomatic and consular offices. With regard to the second group of changes, we maintain with this Bill our proposal as it was in April of this year, that is, we believe that this vote, which is essentially guaranteed in the case of compulsory voting, should be taken into account in all kinds of elections, that is to say, in determining the results in all kinds of elections. In principle, we have always opposed the selective respect of this vote if it is confirmed and if it remains. We have no legal basis to say in principle: this vote will apply to one type of election, but to the other type, where we are not comfortable, will not apply. And here I would like to stress that from the GERB Parliamentary Group we have always consistently defended this right and this principle of equal bearing the electoral consequences in terms of vote. With the previous bill, which was presented by my colleague Nayden Zelenogorski and which I say, I have also signed, a different rule is actually proposed at the insistence of our coalition partners, which we adopted on Monday. We accepted their thesis on this vote to be respected for majority elections, mayor's and vice president's elections, and not to be taken into account, not to weigh mainly in reporting the component for the 4-percent threshold in proportional elections. Thank you. I will take this opportunity to develop my arguments in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There follows an argument on behalf of an importer of a bill to be presented by the MP Grozdan Karadjov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Three MPs from the Civil Quota of the Reformation Bloc are importers of a bill that concerns, in close view, the box "I do not support anyone" or the opportunity for people not to vote for anyone, but their vote to be clearly underlined that they do not like their proposed politicians, their proposed party proposals in the ballot, that is, the choice given to them, so to speak, during elections. But there's actually one problem, and it's not rooted in the box. The square is just an investigation. The real fundamental problem is mandatory voting. If this National Assembly and the main governing group, a garnish, because this is a floating governing group, there was some line of behavior, some management strategy, and not constantly having political hagglings on the most diverse topics, hardly anyone would have thought that a topic such as mandatory voting would ever appear in this House to even be proposed. Moreover, it was not only proposed, but already, the absurdity is gigantic, is a working norm. Why is the rule of compulsory voting, honourable Members, so harmful, so unfair, and actually why is it unprincipled? Because when we propose elections, when we propose a choice to people, we somehow invite an agreement between us and our voters to give us their trust and we try to justify it in the next four or five years. However, the political class that we have become is obviously not enough for it. The political class in Bulgaria is starting to worry, honourable Members, that something is not working out for it. Less and less people are going to vote for us, and that is why we are trying to oblige them. In addition, we try to sanction them by telling them: we will sanction you, as if you do not go to vote n times for us in a row, then we will deprive you of the right to go at all. We'll wipe you off the list. We're gonna make you go out there and do a bunch of bureaucratic actions to get back that basic civil law. That is, we are punishing people with the most inappropriate punishment -- it's not a fine -- it's not a traditional one -- we're denying him his civil right -- the same one we're waiting for him to vote on and transfer his civil trust to us. That, my fellow Members, is putting out a fire with gasoline. Keep throwing those tons of gasoline at the voters and, believe me, sooner or later people will find the stick, whether it's the sticks or the tomatoes, but they'll find their means to drive us out of this room. This brings us to the box. I don't support anyone. In this ridiculous situation, when we have obliged people to like us, they must necessarily choose someone on the list that we have proposed to them, to offer ourselves and to oblige them to choose us, there is huge cynicism and hypocrisy in that. Then a relatively reasonable, small proposal was proposed to leave a small valve through which the growing public tension could burst, and it was called: I choose that I do not support, quite deliberately I do not support either of you. I'll raise you a yellow card, if you like, a red card. If this thing is more massive, it'll be a red card. Then the political class that we have become will have to come to its senses, it will have to come to its senses. He will have to propose something new, some new type of policy, a new type of relationship and give a higher degree of participation to people in this democratic civil process. This slight correction in the fundamentally wronged model and principle of compulsory voting was adopted. It's a working norm at the moment. But, dear colleagues, the devil is always hidden in the details. And there, in these details, we accidentally told the people................ the ruling garnish actually inserted this text and pushed it to the people through the Election Code..... that the box........................ we will count it once.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I ask: is there a higher hypocrisy than this: come, vote compulsory?! I, as I recall, even in Zhivkovo time, didn't necessarily have to go to the elections by law, but pushed them... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yeah, I didn't vote back then, but I don't remember there being such an obligation. But even if there was such a duty, did you go back there now, to Todor Zhivkov?! Have many of you ever been out of this age? Have we ever been out of this age mentally? I don't think we've ever been out of this era because we have to have people come to like us and mark our name. And if they don't, they can draw what they want to tell us or release him. I've been listening to obscene expressions lately, and I won't repeat it, but you've seen very well what people paint on the ballots. So we tell them this: your vote is accepted only as statistics, to see how much you love us and how 90% will fall to vote, but when we have to take account of the result, we will only take into account those who like us, those written there, in the ballot. What if you don't like anyone? Well, if you don't like anyone, choose another country. Two million have already chosen another country, and as we continue this way, they will choose two more. In the end, there will be as many voters as they are elected. And that's where we drove it. That's why we're proposing. In addition to all the arguments that I have put forward and which I am sure you share, around one party order or another you will not support, there is another problem that such an attitude towards people's voices: once we count them, another time we do not count them, is a violation of art. 93 of the Constitution, where it is clearly stated in para. 3 that the candidate who received more than half of the actual votes was elected if more than half of the voters participated in the vote. The Election Code of the Box does not support anyone. It clearly states that it is actually a voice. However, further in the methodology, this is canceled quietly, as I explained to you, and it says: it is a real voice, but when we are going to consider the results, we no longer want it to be real because we do not like to be raised red card in our face! We don't like getting red cards in our face! That is why our proposal, which you have before you, is to drop the text in the methodology for determining the results of the election for President and Vice President of the Republic. 2 to drop the words with the exception of those referred to in art. 333, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. We propose that the Bill enter into force immediately, i.e. on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u32	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr Hamid has the floor to argue the proposal tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, with several sentences, I would like to present our Bill. You know our arguments. They're constant in time and we want a few things, but they're extremely important... [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u34	Mr. Hamid, are you an importer? I asked you, you confirmed it. Actually, I see it's Mr. Kazak. You can't do that. You have to make Mr. Kazak argue with you. You're not part of the group. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, we are continuing with Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov who is an importer with colleagues of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Election Code. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Our proposal is perfectly short under art. 14, para. 5. It states that the total number of polling stations formed in one country may not exceed 55. Our idea is to increase the number of polling stations. The logic of our proposal follows from the fact... Essentially, in our previous proposals, we had another vision. It was the electoral departments outside the country to be formed by a decision of the CEC on a proposal from the heads of diplomatic and consular offices on the basis of no less than 40 voters who applied under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. That wasn't accepted. As an alternative, we have submitted this proposal. What's our logic? If we look at purely statistically, the current Election Code was adopted on 3 May 2016, in which we tabled twice amendments published in two State Gazettes, we have a third amendment. Comparing its action with previous regulations, what have we found? In Austria in 2005, there are five polling stations and in 2014 there are already nine polling stations; in the UK there are fifteen, and in 2014 there are already forty-one; in Greece in 2005 there are eight, and in 2014. There are two in Denmark and five in 2014. This outlines an analysis that leads to the conclusion that our countrymen abroad increasingly want to vote. That is why we propose to change the requirements for the number of sections abroad. We believe that the limit of 35 sections was not adopted with a serious analysis. As an example in this regard, we consider Britain. I gave you the data by 2014 on the number of sections, but according to our information at the moment the sections that could serve our compatriots in the UK should be 51. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary to change the number of sections and to increase it for all Bulgarians living abroad. To introduce a common criterion valid for all countries outside and inside the European Union and for all Bulgarian citizens around the world. We believe that a constitutional rule is that every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of where he lives, whether the state is a member of the European Union or not, should have the same constitutional rights in exercising his original choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. The way you're holding Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, I think that by taking my word away from me just now to express the opinion of an importer, you have shown unnecessary formalism. [[Voiced "Aaaaa" by GERB and Pf.]] Yes, it is! A practice in this Parliament is when a Member of the National Assembly, a colleague of his, is absent to present the submitted Bill. [[Replications of MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u38	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u39	Just 20 more seconds. Colleague, please shut up! Thus you can speak in Gabrovo, not in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u40	That's my function! Please, no notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u41	Mr. Chairman, you took my word away because you were summoned from the Patriotic Front. This is what the country is painting, Mr. Chairman. You're being called down by the Patriotic Front. They scream from there, GERB bends over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u42	Mr. Hamid!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u43	To get out of this situation, Mr. Chairman, vote number four in these elections and you will see that everything will be all right! [[Speak and lines from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u44	Don't abuse me for giving you the floor! I asked you very clearly. Are you part of the importers? You said yes, but it turns out you didn't. I asked you, and you abused my trust. Here you go, Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking procedure the way it is. It's probably embarrassing for you, but it's unacceptable...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u46	Please don't cross that line!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u47	...a representative from the group of the DPS, and from any group, thus qualifying the rightful effect of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u48	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u49	I demand that this Member of the National Assembly be removed immediately, as stated by the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u50	You have to take it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u51	Moreover, when a Member of the National Assembly, in the face of the DPS, did not even bother to read the Rules, as you correctly did and asked him: That's also unacceptable! I therefore again insist that this MP be removed in accordance with the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly from today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u52	Then you shouldn't be in the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u53	Mr. Bayraktarov, I have the right to apply it. As you can see, I take it strictly. We continue with the next opinion of the importer Mr. Georgi Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, very briefly, as some of the Members have already put forward such arguments. My suggestions are in several groups. The first proposal, the key problem of this Election Code, is, in my view, the so-called..... vote............................................................................... As some of my fellow Members have already said, and I believe that voting is a right, not an obligation, and we cannot make people like sheep go to the polls and vote there. The argument I heard from Mr. Danail Kirilov of the Legal Commission that, you see, it was mandatory to just go to the section, and what you would do there was not necessarily a valid argument. What we have to give people is their right to choose whether they want to vote or not. Besides, Mr. Kirilov, you know perfectly well that where there is a mandatory vote, it does not work. In the last parliamentary elections in Greece, 56.5% voted there is a mandatory vote. Can you fine 50% of the population? The polls here show you that they will vote about 60%. The other 40%, what are we gonna do with them? Besides, we don't even have a punishment for them. We'll punish them by taking them off the polls, that is, someone who doesn't want to go to a game, punishing them by saying, "We'll never sell you a ticket to a match." He doesn't care, he doesn't want to go to the election. Let people decide for themselves whether they want to vote or they don't want to vote. The second proposal I am making is about the first to be removed from the so-called square. Once we solve the first problem, we automatically solve the second problem. The third proposal, which I very much hold and is related to the elections in the Mladost region and the presidential elections, when there are different kinds of elections on the same day, to be made in the same room and to all voters to be given all possible election papers, and not to have a CEC decision that, you see, for the referendum, you should ask for a separate ballot to vote with. If you don't want it, they won't give it to you. You go inside, you line up and vote for all possible elections, presidential, regional, local and any referendums that there are. What will happen in the region of Mladost is clear. Who's gonna line up in two lines and move from one floor to the other? Just gonna go with the hard elector? That's what we're doing! Instead of stimulating people to vote, we make them not vote through this Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u55	Ask the CEC representatives about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u56	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u57	Mr. Kirilov, get out here and stand up to me, not out of place. Here you go, because what you're doing is nonsense after stupidity. The fact that we have 12 proposals for amendments to the Election Code two weeks before the elections is the result of the bad Election Code, not something else. You yourself have three proposals, three [[Reply.]] Four. The governors have four. You do the Election Code and you have four bills and all the rest that we have. We're racing to import bills. Why? Because there's a problem. What does it mean, we will make 35 sections outside the European Union, within the European as much as we want? Britain, where the problem is, this year is in the European Union, next year it is not. To ask you: next year what are we doing? Are we making a change to the Election Code again? Especially for Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u58	Thank you. Next is the last Bill, which will be argued on behalf of the importer.. Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u59	Tell her the name of the ballot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u60	Mr. Mihov, please calm down! You provoke different reactions all the time. Keep these provocations to yourself. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order not to confirm the position which is why we are here today, the possibility that these debates will end after the elections in practice will be very brief and very clear. Dear Members of Parliament, we are now here because of the lack of any logic and sanity in the existence of mistaken philosophy. A misguided philosophy by the artists of this Election Code. Honourable Members of Parliament, the great one absent from this Election Code and I think from this debate this is the law, the understanding of the rule of law, the understanding of representative democracy and the understanding of the way power is formed through elections. With this Code, you have not only confirmed this absence, but you have deepened it. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we are consistent in the rejection, against the understanding that a right is an obligation and that the elections and the positive vote are against all against the power, any power. There's even no logic in building the sentence I'm voting for to be against everyone. It's illogical and unacceptable by denying support. The right to choose means the possibility of selecting these candidates for the authorities of the government, which, according to the voter, correspond to his judgement and views. By exercising the right to choose, a composition of the electoral state bodies is formed. The opportunity not to support any of the candidates is contrary to the nature of the choice as such. In practice, a party or coalition benefits, which has received the largest number of votes, but not enough to form an authority or majority in it. However, all of this, not least, also leads to a lowering of the influence of this body and its authority in society. That is why we have proposed in practice throughout the Election Code this notorious box, because however you rotate it, it remains illogical, without any legal consequences a square, more precisely with negative consequences. We've suggested his dropout. We also support the position of other importers against compulsory voting. This is our constant position in time. We talked about it. We voted against it. When we look at this Election Code, we will do it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The procedure for submitting the arguments of the importers of drafts has thus been completed. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed 12 drafts of the Election Code. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev was the first to be enrolled, after which Mrs. Mariana Todorova was to prepare. Mr. Kardzhaliev, you have the floor. In accordance with the debate of the first vote, the minutes are set for you, time may be extended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is half empty, but we will use the media for our messages. I come out of this tribune with the conviction that on topics particularly concerning non-democratic and discriminatory decisions, this tribune must speak seriously and rightly, especially ten days on the eve of the presidential elections, when fundamental rules change. That is why our arguments, considerations about the proposals more than once very seriously and arguing, including from this tribune outside the committees, are shared. I will only refer to those texts, which we believe are adopted as palliative adjustments and introduce a pseudo-democratic order of elections in the Republic of Bulgaria and where Bulgarian citizens live. In our view, these texts deepen discriminatory productions in the Election Code, and from this point of view, given that the proposal for the 35 sections is only and only GERB, I will address mainly this ruling political force with arguments that we cannot support their proposal. This mentioned suspicion just two weeks ago "If you remember, in a declaration of the parliamentary group of the DPS, seeing the present proposal of GERB for a resection of 35 sections abroad, you should know, honourable Members, that it is now becoming convinced. Convince that not just the Patriot Front, but precisely GERB are at the heart of the promotion of new dividing lines on old dividing lines I say this with conviction because we believe it is an apotheosis of discrimination in the legislation of Bulgaria, it is an apotheosis of human and political hypocrisy. And not only that! With particular bitterness, I share another of this tribune, measuring every word of this proposal, according to us, has also proved its true purpose, which was defined by colleagues from the Patriotic Front. The real goal is deliberate, arrogant, biased withdrawal even, I would say, extorting rights from full Bulgarian citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria who do not live in Bulgaria and are part of the Bulgarian citizens with Turkish ethnic self-consciousness. This was recognised in the right text by representatives of the Patriotic Front. This is the result in our view of lack of wisdom, lack of vision, but also lack of a simple sense of justice, and we have very sensitive senses for this particular type of manifestation of Bulgarian democracy. For these reasons, you should know that the DPS is doomed to exist and flourish. You give us a cause after a cause.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u64	Please take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u65	That is why after every kind of choice in the eyes of our opponents we will continue to see rivers of sorrow, hopelessness and sadness because of our results. This way you cannot eliminate the Movement for Rights and Freedoms from the Bulgarian political life. You say, especially the importers just now, that there is no discrimination in these proposals of yours. But how are our fellow citizens different, and they are over half a million in all these countries, which are under this reduction, namely both the United States and Canada, and Turkey, and Australia, and Norway, and Macedonia, and Serbia, and so on and so forth? How is it different Altimir Adamov that his relatives in Turkey will not be able to vote according to rules that are voted in Bulgaria and in other Member States of the European Union? Why do we have to stigmatize and insult these people? With what are they different from us, do they have two heads, three hands, four limbs, not to affect other bodies that are the priority of other political forces, do they have instead of skin scales or some plumage? What do you have to point out and stigmatize these people? This is also offensive to the host country, to the recipient country, because you say: Here the environment does not allow there to be the same rules of voting as there are in Bulgaria and in the countries of the European Union. All right, we'll take it. Obviously today will be passed this Law, and next week is at second reading. To test the constitutional consistency and democracy of this text. Give us 18 votes to refer to the Constitutional Court and let him rule... [[Applause from DPS]] , art. 2 of our Constitution, which says that all citizens are equal before the law, or art. 26, para. 1, which reads: "The citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, wherever they are, have all the rights under this Constitution. Have these texts been complied with? By the way, you know, at the end of January in the Council of Europe we are a leading point at a meeting that will consider vicious practices in Bulgaria in, notice, Macedonia and the Gaza Strip for sinful and undemocratic procedures which are reproachable by the Council of Europe. Dear ladies and gentlemen of GERB, in its short two-year history, the Patriotic Front has reached such heights of delivery of decisions that are related to xenophobia and mannivistic policy that side observers are ashamed of it. The word of hatred, unfortunately, became the norm of communication, including in this Parliament, and it turned the democratic Bulgarian public environment into toxic. With complacency, if you notice, including at the moment, note their achievements. Here I can think of a Turkish saying that is a personification, and it does not concern anyone, how the lice, when it was saturated, went out on the forehead to show itself, to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u66	I'm gonna have to ask you without saying anything! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u67	It's an artistic expression, it's an embodiment, it's not an insult. I apologize if anyone's offended. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, take it easy, so I can move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u68	Under art. 151 I am reminding you that you are deviating from the subject of activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u69	This is about the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u70	You can use all kinds of metaphors, but you insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u71	That's style, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u72	On the basis of art. 151, I'm giving you a reminder of a diversion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u73	You ate me 25 seconds. Do you notice that? I must sincerely tell colleagues from GERB that we have fears, especially with this biased decision to oppress Bulgarian citizens with Turkish ethnic self-consciousness. In our opinion, this is a blatant insult, humiliated dignity. When a community is pressed to the ground, it can become an explosive mass, which does not even need provocation to realize those fears that were shared a few months ago, including Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. [[Noise and lines from the Patriotic Front.]] We at the DPS are responsible politicians and, I said, we have a keen sense of these problems. Therefore, I will tell you, stressing loudly that we are using this experience, this party wisdom, the wisdom of our voter to make sure that there will never be such scenarios in our only homeland Bulgaria. We recognise this fact as a responsible political force, but we also call on the other political forces: Let us stop this chain reaction when hatred gives birth to hatred, because we are doomed to sink into the abyss of our own existence! I appeal to the leadership of the political party GERB, although many of them are also absent to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. The DPS has been called everything in recent years. Anti-DPS-Curse has become a test of reliability, an attestation for a bright future, a declaration of fidelity, but the DPS is never called a gambling party.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u74	Mafia!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u75	And because of that, the next words I'm going to say are not a bluff, they're our creed. The DPS has never made and will not compromise democracy, the democratic principles of the existence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the oppression of this democracy with discriminatory laws. We want to tell you correctly, honourable colleagues from GERB, the following: We have noticed, we have fixed this political behavior of GERB. Your behavior regarding this case did not go unnoticed for us. However, we are worried about another fact - the fact that you do not notice our warning regarding value issues, existential issues that concern our homeland. With bitterness and even a certain amount of shame, I strongly state this. And another concern concerns us with colleagues from the parliamentary group of the DPS "Adaptivity," moderate opportunism, tendencies are instruments in modern modern politics, but when they are used in a conjunctual way, when this type of behavior becomes a system, a norm for communication with other political parties, it is called purely and simply a lie. We've been listening, we've been watching for the last few weeks and months and here in the hall, and in the media, and especially in the couloirs, when we talk alone with colleagues from GERB, of all sorts of lies. You spoke one thing on Monday, on Tuesday it became quite different, Wednesday and Thursday in the Commission became third. There's a lot of lies in politics. That's probably normal. And if liars' noses grew not only outside this room, but also in parliament, here, many people would be decorated not with noses, but with plows and rednecks on their face. You should know that these things are fixed, these things are noticed by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Finally, sincere, correct, even unacceptable, perhaps for the policy expression of men I tried to tell you our concerns and considerations regarding this case. Last night even the Prime Minister admitted that the DPS was capable of acting dignified and consistent. I'm returning his compliment. Hopefully, the famous...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u76	Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u77	Yes, please extend the time. I hope his notorious intuition and political sixth sense hasn't been damaged by the contagious performance of his partners. Because of them and this type of law, we continue to strongly believe that this government is viciously conceived that this government is ideological incest, that this government is ugly and ugly and an hour should rather end. You're like a big family, but the Adams family. The elections in April, May for Parliament have no alternative in our view. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u78	A line of speech? Here you are, Mr. Ismailov. Second line "Peter Slavov, third " Iskren Veselinov, asking the replicators to be careful, not to take the floor and so on, because clearly after this emotional speech there will be serious lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Sir... Sorry, I forgot the name... Kardzhaliev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u80	Tuncher Kardjaliev. [[(Noise and lines from DPS:......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u81	I was going to say Chakarov because I was watching him. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] I apologize for that. I apologize, Mr. Kardzhaliev, sincerely. I agree with many of the principles you have laid out here and I support them. This will become evident in my speech and in my votes. I do not agree with some proposals that the majority is putting forward, but this is another topic. I will tell you that you are somewhat right with your suggestions, but you are not entirely sincere and open when you talk about lying. When warning about the dangers of national populism, yes, but talking about the other side of the medal, because was not the support and form unprincipled? Wasn't he lying, too?! Is there not much lying in your development and in your propaganda when entering certain democratic principles and values in the protection of minorities, many thefts and sales take place behind the frame, which provokes the other national populism the majority. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] I think so. What we're going to have as problems tomorrow is somewhat beset by you as problems in the past. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Second line, please, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u83	Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman! I take this line, Mr. Kardzhaliev, because you have spoken for a long time, but very little has been said about the specific bills we are discussing today. I would like to hear, for example, if you were sincere, because I have the doubt that you have not, for example, stated support for the bill submitted by colleagues Stanimrov and other MPs who solve the problem entirely with the sections abroad, but you did not say a word about it, let alone a good word. At the same time, I will be watching you very carefully from the DPS how you vote for the big bill, the so-called "single draft" of GERB, in which there is a very interesting hypothesis that provides for opening or allowing to vote in additional election boxes abroad. Notice, only abroad in a section and this will be done with a decision of the Central Election Commission. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I am very interested, you have criticised this bill, now to see how you will vote for it and whether this proposal, which in general the House rejects, will somehow sneak into the joint bill. Because, Mr. Kardzhaliev, please excuse me, but there is a suspicion in me and in many other people that you want to use precisely one such proposal for some unclean purposes. If there is a negative attitude towards the DPS, know this, it is precisely to the DPS's head, it is not to the Bulgarian community, to the Bulgarian citizens of Turkish origin. On the contrary, it is to those of the order who have kept them uneducated for years. [[blowing noise and lines from DPS]] who have kept them in the corner for years, who have exploited them for years and created moods and opposition. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u84	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u85	That is why these negative sentiments are, but they are not towards the Bulgarian Turks, they are to you. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line please, Mr. Vesselinoff. I ask you very much without dialogue with the House and from the House to the Replicator.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kardzhaliev! And I'm going to start with a metaphor and a saying: A hungry chicken has just been dreaming so you are dreaming of elections, so you are dreaming of power. By the way, you were in not only one power, you were in government with both the SDS and the BSP and the king, and with whomever you were not. Now I suppose you've conveniently offered to be in power with a next, whatever format, because the DPS is feeding off power because the DPS is equal to corruption, abuse of power, and everyone knows that. [[(Replys from DPS. (Applause from PF.)]] You're in a lot of pain that patriots are successful. Understandable! But when you talk about whether there is a different environment in Turkey, yes, there is a different environment in Turkey. There is one Turkey in which terror is now ruling, the arbitrariness of the state's power, we have a Turkey that is moving towards a dictatorship and in which Islamism is established as a state ideology. And 35 sections are a lot there. I rather wonder where the ambassador has been and how he has fulfilled his duties by offering these 35 sections, which is an outrage to me? A country where the integrity of the vote cannot be guaranteed. So this is also a question which the Patriotic Front will probably soon put, because the idea is not someone to be deprived of a selective right, the idea is to vote those who love Bulgaria and who see their future related to it. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Kardzhaliev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ismailov, you know, even a few years ago, even better than I did. [[Noise and lines from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u90	Please, the Patriotic Front, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u91	Don't get me into this kind of dialogue, because you're a losing party to this dialogue. I want to tell you something else: we, in recent years including, and you will confirm for the 27 years of the existence of DPS, are not ashamed of any decision of our own, including the support of the Oresharski government. And one more thing. This lie that you were talking about, this lie is at the heart of getting you to education in the Republic of Turkey and public image by...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u92	I'm going to ask you not to address him... [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u93	Who do I turn to? I've got a dot. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u94	But, education here and so on, talk about the substance. [[Lowered noise and lines from DPS. A line from the MP Hamid Hamid.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u95	I'll ask for your resignation, you know!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u96	Mr. Hamid, I'm going to remove you from the courtroom. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Yeah, I'll take you out of the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u97	This lie made you a socially significant figure, of course, with large reserves of a socially significant figure. Mr. Slavov, as far as details are concerned, I have no internal need to argue with you. At second reading you will see our opinion. In principle, this Bill, which is under No 113, we support it... Boris Stanimirov. But at the second reading, we will also clarify the details. We accept otherwise in principle the democratic spirit of your laws that you propose. Regarding Mr. Iskren Veselinov: there is also a modern paraphrase of this saying: the hungry chicken mountain raises. Think about it, isn't it possible that this as a hypothesis is true? And in terms of Turkey and the environment, draw a parallel, make an analogy with the United States, Norway, Canada, Switzerland, with Britain in a year or two. Is the middle like this? Do you not discriminate against our full citizens, who are several hundred thousand, in these very countries, I am abstracting from Turkey? And you should know once again: we have no fear of you! I told myself my fears. We think that the opposition, the hatred that you dictate leads to exactly what I said: it ignites low passions and brings together crowds. It is the responsibility of politicians to stop this process. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u98	Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. You're entitled to a procedure. I guess it's the way it's run.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I think that when a politician, a MP, uses expressive means from the stands, it is part of his toolbox, from the way he wants to defend his thesis or disprove his opponents' thesis. Using metaphors and other figures is absolutely necessary for a good speaker, what is Dr. Kardzhaliev. You did not have to tear up his speech with five-six stops on this subject, so much more so that others, who willfully deprived of this gift of being speakers, instead of using such expressive means, used by this tribune as expressions of God. Do not insult the hall and pollute the space of this sacred tribune with the expressive means they use. I ask you to refrain from this type of remark, because this speech was anything but a violation of the Rules of Procedure, let alone an insulting qualification. It was exquisitely and quite literaryly enough to admire it and to understand the essence of our concerns, which are made in an adequate and very accurate, albeit sometimes metaphorical way to the addressees who are you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The word for speech has the popular representative Mariana Todorova of the parliamentary group of ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The fact is that the issue of the Election Code for the third time blows up the ruling majority and this suggests that the texts are not precise and are not well-made enough. Instead of the ideas on how to manage, what policies to have to conduct on the field of the management program, this has been transferred to the Election Code. And that's a shame, because the Election Code becomes a bet on konjunctural political interests. It is the mandate holder's responsibility to act in principle, not to seek to please one partner or another, but to clear the texts so that they are uncompromising and work well and clean. From the ABB Parliamentary Group, we believe that this debate is quite timely and late. From the previous statements we see that the debate is used for election messages and serves very well several presidential candidates and several parties. This inflates their ratings, distorts the topics of the debate, removes attention and thus other candidates are uneven. If there's one thing we should be discussing today, that's the number of sections. We have seen that the one regulated now in the Election Code is not sustainable and that in Britain there are more applications than what is at stake. Moreover, this issue is technical. There are more applications, the CEC expressed readiness, if today we decide otherwise, to change the criteria. In this context, ABB's proposal is most balanced. We propose that the number of sections to increase from 35 to 55 because we see that there are currently such applications, and in time statistics show that this is not exceeded. We share the fear that there is a distortion of vote, there is unlawful action in Turkey and therefore we propose that there should be a restriction. However, we believe that over time this restriction should be removed when there is some diplomatic or political way to solve the problem with Turkey. However, as today we are offered the restriction to apply to all countries outside the European Union, this is unconstitutional, and if someone is found to refer to the Constitutional Court, we at the ABB are convinced that this proposal, which is now temporarily suppressing the passions of the coalition, will be dropped and it is indeed temporary and transient. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 6 of the Bulgarian Constitution. Our fellow citizens cannot have different rights according to the location they have. That is why I repeat once again: the proposal of ABB is currently the most balanced - 55 sections, there will not be much in a country that everyone fears, but will be enough for countries around the world. The other controversial moment that we are all discussing today is the square. It is best for us to remain the current situation.. these votes to be accounted for as real, but not to be counted. We are glad that there will still be no counting in the parliamentary vote, because for all of us it is clear that this violates party pluralism, that it grabs the votes of people who do not support anyone, for the benefit of the big parties and that many raises the electoral threshold and many parties will remain outside and many citizens will remain unpresented. And here I ask: if this act distorts the vote in the parliamentary elections and deforms it, why should we think that it will not distort and deform the vote in the presidential elections and for the mayor? It is clearly stated in the Constitution that the president is elected when they have voted more than half of the citizens and more than half of them vote for one person. What if more than half of the citizens voted, but more than half of them didn't vote for one person, and, say, 43% voted for a candidate and 7% didn't vote? With this set-up that we are being offered today, we are blaming the opportunity to elect a legitimate president. In general, all legislation can cause a great deal of problems. These are two key plays, both in order for the Constitutional Court to condemn that the norm that is voted on today is unconstitutional to divide the countries into part of the European Union and our fellow citizens as well as the legitimacy of the future president. I call on the majority, I call on the carrier to take responsibility because then all the problems will fall on his back, not the small partners who simply unite their constituents. I call on us to make a reasonable choice! I am convinced that today we are closing the subject for a very short time and that soon after the presidential elections the Election Code will be opened again. Then the ABB will insist that an expert group be convened to bring together constitutionalists, lawmakers and politicians and to find sustainable solutions that will enable the elections to be held normally in the next 15 years. And let us offer our different ideas and visions for management in the management program and in the way policy is formed, and not that it shines on the field of electoral legislation, because it will really make it more and more necessary for the square to not vote. We are lowering the rating of institutions in this way because we see that we are very much ready to support non-constitutional decisions and we are blaming confidence in us, so we are based on the mandatory vote. So it is not too late to make the sensible decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. A line of speech? I can't see. The next one is the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev. I don't see him in the room. There is a floor for speech Stefan Kenov "Bulgarian Democratic Center" - People's Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we need to change the basic election law during the election campaign. Whether justified or not, we have had two major problems. Different figures were heard from the pre-speakers and the people who presented their bills. But the Bulgarian state is mainly working with two figures - the Bulgarians, who define themselves outside the border, are 3-3,5 million. Outside the Republic of Bulgaria, 28% of Bulgarian citizens live. Is the exercise of their constitutional right to participate directly in the elections for government bodies a major problem? The answer is: 'Yes', and that can't be any other way. Here, however, we also talked more about technology, whether the sections should be 35, whether they should be 55, whether they should be less, more. Things have been said that it should be possible to guarantee their right wherever there are two or three Bulgarian citizens in the world. But no matter how many sections, even if they are 55, 65, 112 or 300, there is no way for you to leave financially, but there is virtually no way for the Bulgarian state to provide a sectional election commission in any locality where there is a Bulgarian citizen, regardless of the state. On several occasions in this country, I have personally stated that the only way to guarantee the rights of all Bulgarian citizens from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is to effectively introduce the remote electronic vote. Only in this way can we guarantee 100% that everyone can exercise their right to vote. Will the changes that are being proposed today solve the problem? When the Election Code was adopted, each of us knew that there would be a problem in three countries, the United States, the Republic of Turkey and Spain. Turns out Spain wasn't a problem. A problem has become Britain. At that time, we knew that we would also have a problem with the polling section in London. There are too many Bulgarian citizens who could not exercise their vote in one section. What he proposed, I think that Mr. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs in their bill, for the extra sections, is a solution. It will also be a solution for the Republic of Turkey. I don't know if you've read it. But to think that by providing thousands of sections out of the country, we can't solve the problem. We don't have the opportunity to secure that right. My call is not so much today or between first and second readings to make any changes, but really the concern of all parliamentary groups to enable our compatriots outside Bulgaria to vote electronically. This ultimately depends on the will of the parliamentary groups. We will support the drop of the ceiling of 35 sections for the European Union with the clear perspective that this is ultimately a solution to this kind of choice. Henceforth Britain may not be part of the European Union, but this gives even more water in the mill of this progressive process indeed the Council of Ministers and the ruling majority to work on the introduction of the electronic vote. Regarding the box. We have always stated that we are in favour of the mandatory vote, but there can be no mandatory vote without giving the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to note their vote that they do not support any of the candidate parties or individuals for a certain post. You cannot predict the vote of a Bulgarian voter by telling him: "These are the five candidates, you will vote for them! " The fact that I don't like the four candidates doesn't make me vote for a Pistol or a Pistachio or anything. I must have the opportunity to cover this vote. Should it be real or invalid? This man voted for me. Should he be involved in the polls? We're going to send the first candidate and the box to the ballet? This means to consider it valid afterwards when determining the results. And at the ballet, we'll have one candidate for president and one empty square. It's ridiculous! This was supposed to happen, it was well done in my opinion. But in order to protect ourselves from fears, we will also support this amendment in majority elections not to count, not to have his voice valid, although I have exercised it in this way, my vote should be invalid. Why? Because a hysteria was created. In fact, what was said this week will never happen. These real empty squares could have fulfilled one condition that more than 50% of the people on the electoral list would have reached 3.5 million. But how in these predictions would we have fulfilled the other condition? And how could these concerns really have become a fact? That wasn't an option! There was a hysteria. Okay, we will vote and calm the Bulgarian society. I am firm for supporting the additional sections of the additional election boxes. I really think they'll solve some of the problem. There are huge cities around the world in which huge Bulgarian communities live, and we must guarantee them the opportunity to vote in the old way with ballots and so on. We will support three bills. One bill is by Mr. Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, Mr. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs and Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs. We believe that peace should be created in society before the elections. Although it is wrong for us to change the electoral rules, ultimately more important are the Bulgarian citizens, their rights, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, and our desire to create the opportunity for them to really exercise them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. The People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov has the floor for speech. Here you are, dear Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's topic I would call a discussion of the area of the political triangle. This is the result of the previous amendments to the Election Law, when the same questions were raised here again with much of the warnings that are leading us today to correct what was then adopted. It is indicative that out of 12 bills will be supported most probably three, the parliamentary groups, who have the biggest contribution to solving this case today, the Reformation bloc and their joint bill. What is happening today in the area of electoral legislation, at least in recent years, is without precedent only 15 days before election day to continue changes in election rules. Do you realize, I ask myself, is this an expression of the political and management inability of the majority, if we have a higher opinion of the majority, whether the theme with the box is not an attempt not to discuss the real problems of Bulgaria, what the President should do, but rather to deal with the reality or nullity of the voice in the box?! I do not have an answer to this question, but either one of them is not good for the state of our country today. And now on both subjects. Notice that you are proposing two changes to both, to put it mildly, controversial, and even conflicting from a constitutional point of view. One is: how to justify the mandatory vote, which on the Bulgarian Constitution continues to be a right and only right, and in other legal systems this may not be the case. But the efforts to say that a right can be transformed into an obligation through simple legal change in my opinion is violence to the Constitution and that in Bulgaria for decades, but not so long ago, the vote has been exercised as compulsory but for political and not for legal reasons. You are even taking a step backwards, turning a factual or political state into a legally binding state. The second issue is about the sections. I will not concern him, as the Constitution proclaims that all Bulgarian citizens have the same rights regardless of where they are. So the introduction of criteria in the European Union in the vote on presidential elections is irrelevant, because we do not choose the European Parliament to give this opportunity to people who are concerned with the European Union. As for the theme of the box, you offer two different solutions. I'm puzzled what GERB really wants?! At noon they submit a proposal that all these votes be counted as real, which makes sense once such an opportunity is envisaged. Shortly before the deadline for submission of proposals, on the same day, through their representatives, they participate in a coalition proposal, saying that these votes will count in the election of presidents and mayors, but will not be considered real when taking into account the personal results of elections for municipal councilors and parliament. Why? Is this the hope of smaller parties in parliament: to continue to exist, thanks to such electoral punctuaries, in the same condition, in the same vote, in one case the actual one, in the other does not matter? So, if you have to be consistent, you have to say: it is necessary to have 50% participation in the elections as it is for the president. This condition is respected because these votes are counted as valid in the initial vote. After that, they must also be real when reporting, and this is where the constitutional case arose: could a valid expressed will of Bulgarian citizens not be respected? So these people are insane and they don't know what they're doing? Yes, you are! Some of the most critical ones who can't choose a candidate are probably expressing their opinion in this way. But this is also pointless because they can do it now either by not voting for anyone or by cutting out the entire ballot and all the candidates. There would be no difference in the effect of their vote, as is currently the legal framework. Therefore, it is the attempt to resolve a solution that alone does not stand up to arguments that leads to further problems. And I would like to conclude precisely by pointing out this contradiction that in the way you act, you are increasingly making the very meaning of democracy meaningless. Because if at some point all the build-up of tension is transformed into the fact that people don't approve of anything, it will turn out that nothing will have to govern them. There are no such risks here as the previous speaker said that people could choose the one they do not support, because well, at least the Constitution was made meaningful and it is said that the candidates who received the most votes go to the second round. Perhaps the CEC will let the box exist on the second round, but it won't matter because it will be the one chosen who has received more than the votes for one candidate. It is really politically strange if people do not see that Parliament is dealing with real issues and is playing with their will, they can thus express their protest before really expressing it at all, opposing Parliament and the state authorities. This is the biggest blow you make with these exercises two weeks before the election. So whatever you accept today, it will really not increase confidence, and hopefully people will look for meaningful solutions, and ask politicians to make such meaningful decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. A line of speech? Here you go, Mr. Popov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, you are right about the two options that you described, but besides the inability to deal with this matter and the diversion of attention from really important, significant public topics, there is also a third option which, of course, does not exclude the previous two, but is also quite logical about creating chaos before and during the elections leading, of course, to a greater opportunity for manipulation. And this sees, shines quite clearly in GERB's proposal. Notice, they offer to place more election boxes, more urns, but do not offer the increase in sections, do not propose an increase in the composition of the respective section election committees. It still has this opportunity when the possibility of placing ballots in an ballot box is exhausted, when its capacity is exhausted there is a second spare ballot box. Putting more ballot boxes in the same section, with the same number of members of the sectary electoral commission, will strongly lead to less control of election production. The same people will be on both seals, the same people will be in the elections, but there will be several sections. How will this same members of the SIC control more voting boxes? It is obvious how and what they aim at manipulating the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Popov, I have spoken more about the issues that concern the Constitution and politics, but you are paying proper attention to the third proposal, which, without putting constitutional and legal issues, raises the question of increasing the possibilities of abuse in the electoral process, and it is right abroad, where this control is initially smaller for understandable reasons. I wonder how people who even participate in the presidential campaign can talk about putting a second urn with something to ease the vote?! This is ridiculous! If the current urn is filled with ballots, won't the reserve be used to continue placing these ballots? You are not proposing an increase in the composition of the committee in order to take over those people who will vote in the presidential elections and in the referendum, but you are saying, "We will put a second box! But this is the final act, because checking the documents, marking the list, providing the ballots, entering the secret voting room, is the time that requires the most duration. The release of the ballot has little to do with the election process. So if you put both two and three boxes, this will not accelerate almost the vote itself. And the question arises correctly: is this not done so that someone can import another box, right, full of ballots? I really don't see anything that changes the election process with this box, so don't even talk about it. Thank you for asking this question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. The word for speech has the popular representative from the Reformation Block Korman Ismailov. Here you are, dear Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will start from there that when I comment on the bills, I will only follow the general rules of principle, because this is the easiest and most correct way. We are all aware that it is very wrong to change the rules of the game when the game has started, but we always do, including now. Now we are aware that there is a problem in the electoral legislation and that is why we are looking at it again; we are aware that Pandora's box has been opened by nationalists and that is why we are now looking at things because of the pressure of our fellow citizens mainly and mainly from abroad. We are also acting personally as a representative of the People's Party of Freedom and Dignity. Part of the Reformation bloc, of the fact that we must respect the equal rights of all our fellow citizens, regardless of where they are, when they are, whether they are in the country or abroad, regardless of their peculiarities. We do not accept any restrictions for and outside Europe. If I have to go back a little bit, why have we now come to look at the problems of our fellow citizens' political rights and their right to choose? Well, it came to this because even before the fall of the Berlin Wall, thousands of our fellow citizens left Bulgaria in the direction of the Republic of Turkey because they were treated as a second quality people in terms of their rights and freedoms because they were disintegrated. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, millions left the West. Why? Because they were looking for freedom, rights, more opportunities. And instead of us with our legislative decisions to give them more opportunities and more rights, including political rights to exercise their voice, to be empathetic to the processes in Bulgaria, to be more or less integrated, we do this not everywhere with our proposals in the drafts. I'll give an example. I strongly support the bill of colleagues with main importer Radan Kanev, but I disagree with some of the arguments of colleague Stanimirov. The child of one of my classmates and best friends when he was born had six citizens, six passports. This boy, who has a Bulgarian name, is currently in Uruguay. What are we doing to involve this Bulgarian citizen, or are we going to let him feel more different about himself, more of a Ukrainian, more of a German, more of a Spaniard than any of us here?! I also agree with many of Mr. Mestan's arguments absolutely principled in terms of the Constitution. I accept the arguments of my colleagues at the DPS. I accept the arguments and ideas of one of Mr. Enchev's bills, where the right is to vote. It goes with the responsibility to make the choice in the urn and even if there is no box, which was completely unnecessary, but to release the empty ballot and say. I will end with the fact that part of the problem at the moment to lead this debate and at times to come out of the specific texts is national populism. In time it will come to the point that he can break the jug and I speak as a warning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. Replies to Mr. Ismailov's statement? I can't see. The word for speech has the popular representative Danail Kirilov. Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start with a note on the procedure for the current debates. Indeed, you were not the lead of the meeting at its beginning when the opinions of the importers were presented, but I would emphasise that much of the importers, and not in the chronological order of submission, actually developed statements in the form of presentation of the bills. Under this procedure, there is no way to take an opinion and express an opinion immediately, at the same time after these speeches and respectively to make lines. Therefore, I would insist and would like some of my colleagues, here I am referring to colleague Kadiev, to be present in the Chamber. So they will have the opportunity to take a cue in my speech. I'll start with this. Yes, we were placed in conditions and in a situation at this time to conduct a second revision of the electoral rules, given that we were discussing a huge number of draft amendments and amendments to the Election Code as early as March this year. I submit that in April, in-depth debates were held in the Committee on Legal Affairs. All the colleagues who wanted and were importers took part in them. Yes, indeed, the revision took place, which concerned mainly and mainly art. 14 - Rules on the formation of polling stations outside the country, to be reviewed at the beginning of June. These changes and this legislative activity were the subject of a study of the Security and Cooperation Organisation missions, involving delegates and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here I would add that they were also in line with the Venice Commission. We have also received a preliminary and final report on these issues. I would like to point out that these reports do not comment as a disadvantage or as a violation of European rules and standards for the protection of the rights of the individual, including electoral rights, the declarative introduction of mandatory voting in our Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u114	It's for our Constitution, not European.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u115	I will also answer the line from Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's room, but I will get to that question. There's no comment on the box. I don't support anyone. I suppose this is because we, as a Member, have the opportunity and autonomy to establish such rules. Not many times, sparingly in the Legal Committee, I quoted a decision by the European Court of Human Rights of 1971. I joked that this decision was 45 years old and was one year younger than me. The European Court of Justice then ruled on a complaint against compulsory voting in Austria. In Austria! Here I do not comment on the attempts and the analogies of the Bulgarian compulsory vote to be aligned with the mandatory vote in some more unknown and more distant countries. I'm talking about Austria. In this judgment, the European Court of Justice has held that compulsory voting is not contrary to art. 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and of the Personality and that it constitutes only an obligation for the electoral to go to the electoral urn. From then on, he has the opportunity to show free choice to vote validly, or to vote invalid, to vote positive, or to vote negative. In this regard, and at the risk of deviating a little bit, I will only recall the following: until the current elections we have the highest number of invalid votes. This invalid vote was over 300,000, over 380 thousand, reaching 400,000 votes. Take this volume of invalid vote to the voters who participated in the elections, and you will see that more than 15, sometimes 20% of the vote of voters is invalid, is not respected, is not heavy in the electoral process. And when we talk about the box, I don't support anyone, I'm not a defender of this box, I'm not a defender, yes, I'm an importer of art. 80 on this proposal, and I take responsibility in this regard, but I ask you to remember by April all those who defended those of utility to have the freedom to declare their negative vote against us. That is to say, the request and the demand was to allow this illumination, to remove from the invalid ballots those with a frankly negative vote, to distinguish them from those who violate the law that violate the requirements of the Law. When we also take into account the gravity of these invalid ballots, please note also that this subset will appear from there, it will illuminate and show how many Bulgarian voters actually have a negative attitude towards all lists, all contestants in the electoral process. Yes, there is a sociological debate about the nature of this vote, whether it is invalid or valid. Mr. Mikov in detail in the Legal Committee developed the thesis that the vote on our system has almost always been about the fact that he is an elected vote, he is personalized. There is an opportunity to actually accept that this vote is real. He's a real voter, he's real, he's real, he's got the right, on election day he's gone to the polling section, he's been on the list, he's expressed his will. Yes, but that will is not finished. The truth is, it's not finished if we point it at a specific candidate, a particular personality. And she's not positive for anyone. We have argued with our colleagues in the Reformation Block as to whether it is possible to exclude from the principle of exclusion third, that is to say, can there be a subset of neither actual nor invalid ballots, which is a subset of a stand-alone seat in the minutes of the respective electoral committees. I'm not going into the debate or the argument on this. I'm going to express my personal opinion. Yeah, it's possible, and it could be useful at the first step. I will also not enter into the next argument relating to the so-called white newsletter. And this issue has been the subject of research by our European partners far back in time. There are also debates in the legislative bodies of other countries. In the French Parliament, it is discussed that the white ballot should lead to a withdrawal of a mandate, that is, the amount of negative vote should lead to a reduction of the respective number of mandates in the legislative body. If parliament consists of 240 MPs and the negative vote is for 40 mandates, these mandates should be empty. Yeah, I didn't mention those debates in the French Parliament either, because our Constitution doesn't allow that. This would already be the subject of another debate, the purely constitutional debate. But how do we find out if we have grounds, do we have practice for that? We won't understand it with an inconsistent approach. We wouldn't understand it with a conjunctural approach. We will not understand it with the approach of abuse of electoral rights and attempts to manipulate the electoral process. Some colleagues mentioned very intrusive England. Very intrusive. It is not true that we have not commented on England as a third, one of the three countries in the European Union, where we have the highest turnout. See also the statements of the Central Election Commission in the debate before the Legal Committee. The CEC directly said, without even asking them, without asking this very specific question: is there a huge disproportion between the applications for the opening of polling stations and the open, limited 35 polling stations? Well, colleagues, I won't. I won't! Only in England there is a disproportion of the required number of applications to open seven sections further. So that's the big problem? Is that the problem that can't be solved with a good organization? I think we've been precise and careful in this analysis. I'm also reminding you... I won't remind you. [[Radio.]] I won't remind you of that. On the subject: does the box deflect the actual debate? I'll take the liberty of agreeing with Mr. Stoilov here. Yes, I definitely believe that this issue has some deviating role to play in the debate. This issue could have been resolved four months ago when the ballots had not been printed. There could also have been a legislative initiative by colleagues who were seeing, seeing there some special danger. But he was waiting for the last moment. And that is why I will say directly: it is normal for the opposition to be careful and observant, diligent, strict in compliance with the Law, but it is not normal to conduct political propaganda, to conduct the electoral political competition with manipulations and suggestions. I'll tell you about the second urn. The second urn we offer it not only because our leader had mentioned it, and it had properly mentioned it in May, as a possible outcome and option. I continue to argue that there is a legislative possibility of this now, but I will explain why it could choose speculatively created, manipulatively induced fakes in front of and in polling stations. Just because she can make two tails. As it has so far been voted in the major polling stations. The lists are divided from A to O and from O to Z. And in practice the verification of the legitimization is carried out by two groups, from two parts of the sectional election commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u116	The number of committees must be increased.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u117	Is it necessary to increase the number? Perhaps it is necessary, but I think now the sectional election committees are with a sufficient number of 5 or 7 people. What's the problem with these 5 or 7 people running two tails? But notice the special difference. The special difference from the Maya Manolova Code for voting abroad is that abroad, Mr. Stoilov, we don't have lists. We have a white sheet of paper. So abroad it is not like in Bulgaria to sit some member of the SIC and try to slow down, to hang out, to look for some name on the list. No, there's just taking the I.D. and describing its data on the white sheet of paper. This, on the one hand, shortens voting time and, on the other, in some cases, probably in some countries, this is also used as a tool for manipulation. I'm going to try to get to the bottom of this. I apologize for the duration of this speech. I would just like to remind one more circumstance to fellow Members who insist that there is no such precedent at this time to comment on electoral rules. There was such a precedent in 2009. For the June 7th elections for members of Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament, I will explain exactly what happened then. The Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for the Election of Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria was then introduced, No 954-01-101, dated 10 June 2009, importer is the respected MP Lyuben Andonov Kornezov, with which he proposes the correction of a special rule. And this is with regard to the personality of a particular candidate then by BSP. Do you know what this Law provides? It predicts retroactive action. It is explicitly written in the second norm: the request enters into force on June 6th and so that this foreign minister can then not interrupt his insurance or employment rights and so that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can enter immediately as a European MEP. So, colleagues, please don't discuss the conjuncture here. After all, we reluctantly agreed to discuss and were not the first. We weren't the first importers! We are seventh at the time importers, after seeing that all our partners are importing such bills, that the opposition has submitted a total of eight! Yes, and we reacted with our legislative proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. Second line, Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I can't help but take a short line with regard to the so-called supplementary urn. I would ask you specifically to comment on this text, which appears strangely to me in the general package of bills, as it does not solve the problem of either voting our countrymen abroad, nor the other problem with the so-called'square', or, otherwise, the protest vote. I think we all understand very well that the problem in large countries, such as the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Germany, France, is not that in one section people cannot be voiced, and the problem is the large distances they have to travel to this section. That in it you will put three, four, five or more boxes, does not solve their problem. While in another country, we all know which, including the Constitutional Court, was ruling on how unique heights were achieved there at the rate of voting within less than 20 seconds per person. This thing could be extremely useful to them. I do not need to say that it will be extremely harmful to Bulgarian democracy. So I ask you to make a commitment that this dangerous text between the two readings will fail. Since your Bill will probably be supported in full at first reading, it will be dropped between the two readings. Mr. Kirilov, you've just had the freshest example of what I'm saying. You have seen how a colleague from the DPS, as he put it: by reading not very formalized the Staff Regulations, tried to come out on behalf of an importer, although he is neither an importer nor a co-owner, to present a bill, although the Rules of the National Assembly do not allow it. And I ask you: if other colleagues of his in a similar way take to interpret the Election Code and say: "The person called me on the phone that he agrees with how to vote, but can't come to the section to take me to release the ballot and sign it, then where are we going? These additional boxes, where no additional darkrooms are provided, where no additional members of the committee are provided, shall in no way accelerate the electoral process. [[the President signals that time has run out]] They'll only create opportunities for abuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Popov? You're giving up. The right to the doppelganger? [[Reply.]] Here you are, Mr. Enchev. Let's see if you have time. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u121	Mr. Kirilov, with all due respect to you, I would like to ask you and to answer from this tribune: if, after the presidential elections, two parliamentary groups have already stated their intention, they refer to the Constitutional Court for the mandatory vote, which under Constitution is a right, not an obligation, and if the Constitutional Court decides that this is contrary to the Constitution and the elections are subject to annulment, how will you react? That's my first question. Moreover, as far as I know, BSP and DPS have stated such a intention, which has not been realised so far, but will obviously be realised after the presidential elections, depending, of course, on the outcome. Here I agree with the remark in the third or fourth row. The second question: do you realize that the problem with the so-called "quadrache" is a consequence of the vicious proposal of the Patriotic Front for compulsory voting, because if the mandatory vote had not been introduced, the problem with the box would not have arisen. But let's say that the mandatory vote was taken.... why should the box be calculated as a real vote in one election, while others should not be calculated? Explain this contradiction in the right that you should best know that should not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Right on the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable Members Slavov and Enchev! With regard to the so-called second urn, colleague Slavov, I am ready, if our proposal is accepted, to debate in the most detail, in the Legal Commission. Somehow this debate isn't about the tribune or the hall at this point. We could have done this on Wednesday, discussing the laws in the Legal Commission, but there were no comments and objections to this issue at the time. If anyone has doubts by this method and by this method, we have proposed that the defense here be a decision of the Central Election Commission. If anyone offers additional tools to verify the circumstances and facts in such a hypothesis, I am ready to discuss them. I take occasion from your speech about the number of SICs because I missed a very unfair attack by one of the importers, Kadiev, whom I did not have the opportunity to make a reply on his speech about "Mladost." The colleague Kadiev is trying to predict, rudely speaking, to discourage all efforts of Sofia Municipality and Mayor Fandakova regarding its repeated disputes with the Central Election Commission. The number of members in the sections is a matter of the Central Election Commission (CEC). What did the CEC do for Youth? Do two groups of SICs, and now Kadyev explains how these two groups, almost, have to put them together. Yeah, it's nice to be in one place, but the best thing was to be a larger Sectoral Election Commission (SIC). Why is Kadyev doing this? Apparently, he wants to appeal to the Initiative Committee for the referendum and oblige the SICs to give all ballots to voters. To the Legal Committee I stressed and now I will say this: both I and my colleagues from Sofia Municipality and Mayor Fandakova expect a precise and adequate solution of the Central Election Commission on the proper allocation and organisation of the electoral process in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Personal explanation please, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to enter the ambulant nature of the political arithmetic that reigns here. However, what I shared with the Commission, Mr. Kirilov, and clearly you have not understood me, is that the understanding of a negative vote is absurd. You're saying that there's been a practice so far, that's what I've said. No. I am telling you and I am explaining to you that elections are a mechanism in which the influence of individual parties and candidates is measured in society. They're no place to protest. The place for protest, and the Constitution, is in the square, and it is not anonymous, as is this thing that is happening, it is not destroying any voices, as we are now preparing to do, but stating positions. That's what I explained in the Legal Commission. It's absurd for an election to have a negative vote! When elections are always elected, and that is why they are elections, from what they have, and who does not like what they have, finds another solution: either they create a party, or they create an initiative committee, or they go out into the square and protest. The concept of negative vote in elections is wrong. That's what I explained to you in the Legal Commission. The very attempt to seek negativity in determining the influence of parties is absurd. It can lead right to the ruin of democracy. That's what I told you. Especially when you stimulate by legal norms citizens to vote against the construction of the bodies that are being elected. That's what I explained. Now, I'm making it shorter within the procedure, nice of you to mention me, but there's no way out of this blind basket where you're stuck yourself because of this ambulant political arithmetic, it's not even mathematics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u126	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. For a statement, I give the floor to the MP Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll ask four questions and try to answer them. The first is, what are you doing right now, gentlemen in charge? The second one, why are you doing this? The third.. what will be the result of what you are doing? The fourth alternative. What are you doing? It's an outrage that changes ten days before the election. The precedent you pointed out has nothing to do with what you're doing right now. It is one thing to change the starting date from which one term runs and another to fundamentally change the electoral rules ten days before the day of the vote itself. To be more precise: election for President 2006 Changes to the Election Code three months earlier; election for President 2011 Changes to the Election Code four months earlier; parliamentary elections for the 41st National Assembly Three months earlier; 42nd National Assembly 2013 He changed three months earlier; parliamentary elections for the election of the 43rd National Assembly 2014. Six months earlier. There's no such practice! What you're doing is really outrageous! Why are you doing this? A representative of GERB said last week: "This is a compromise between the coalition partners in the government. No, it's not a compromise. It's a power deal. The reformers tabled a proposal. "The Bulgarians have an interest in voting abroad, okay. The Patriots, on the other side, picked you up because they're defending their party interest, okay, but not in Turkey. And in order to please both of them, in order to preserve the disintegrating majority and the falling government, you have made this chaos in election rules. The opposition was guilty because, you see, he introduced bills, and you had to follow them. Well, drop those bills! It's not your opposition's fault! On the contrary, we told you when we adopted these electoral rules that compulsory voting is a right and not an obligation. The square is a consequence of the mandatory vote. Wait, there will be a referendum, people will say what they think about this! Is there a complaint by the Ombudsman Maya Manolova about the sanctions for the mandatory vote by the Constitutional Court? There is. Well, wait until the authorities in Bulgaria are pronounced! Your opposition was guilty of voting one way at the time, and now you just turned away because you were shaken by the government and coalition relations, and you're trying to save yourself. What's the result of this thing? If parliament is currently at the bottom of all the rankings, you are pushing it below the bottom. People understand that this is not addressed to them, it is not a protection of their civil and electoral rights. They understand that this is a battle in the government at all costs to remain in the government. The expenses? Who's gonna tell us how much this coalition game of yours is gonna cost, and who's gonna pay for that? Turn to the people and say: "Hey, we'll still take you out of your pocket to pay for our coalition agreements to stay in power. There's an alternative, only she's been sitting on Mrs. Tsacheva's desk for four months and she's not moving from there. The alternative is Law on State Property, Law on VAT on Children's Foods, Law on Protection of Bulgarian Production, Law on Youth and Sports [[crowd cheering and chirping]] It's an old man's law. That's what Parliament should be doing, because that's what people are waiting for! Not with your coalition quarrels and saving power. Of course you're creating chaos. And of course you will take advantage of this chaos. You're king of manipulations, and we know it, the whole people know it. Only this time we won't let you do it! And next week, we're gonna make a public offer... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u128	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u129	...agreement of all political parties except GERB, which manipulate elections, an agreement for fair and transparent elections. Let's see if you all have the courage to face them together and say: This time we will not allow you to change the vote of people either with your election games and change in election rules or with manipulations on the night of the vote. We'll be waiting for you next week for a fair election settlement. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. First line I give the floor to the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov, after him Mr. Svilen Ivanov. The third line is not available at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Ninova, I didn't mean to give you a line. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] But when you... [[Loud noise, lines and calls from BSP LB.]] If you please, Mr. Chairman, order!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u132	Continue, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u133	But when you are talking about morality, about Bulgarian children, I can't help but think of this folder in which your morals are described in detail. Just moments ago, I was given this flash drive. [[strong noise, lines, calls from BSP LB]] Which is the rest of your morality, but we'll talk about it another time. So I ask you very much, on the subject of the Moral, only you be more modest. [[Loud noise on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u134	Please be quiet in this room! He has the word Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u135	That's a start to the line. We will continue, however, further: honourable Members, tell me that the National Assembly is not to make judgments to establish imperative caselaw? No. In the National Assembly, the national representative has sworn to act according to the laws of both his own conscience and public interest. When public interest requires changes to be made, I can't have any statistics here that don't matter at all. That is to say, the question is that the gentlemen of the left-wing public interest are only defending or rather protecting some corporate and other behind-the-scenes and unclear interest, so what they are doing today is useful and it will be done despite the demonstrations of the people who once want to work, at other times they wish not to work. They'll probably be running again in a election campaign in a few minutes, but don't be surprised. That's it! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u136	Second line. "The People's Representative Svilen Ivanov." Third line.. People's representative Slavcho Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It's hard...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u138	Mr. Dobrev! Kiril Dobrev, I'm addressing you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u139	I'm holding on a lot... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u140	Mr. Ivanov, your time is off. Please, follow the order of the House and do not engage in altercations with the speakers. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u141	I would like to start by saying that we all really agree that we should not have opened the Election Code before the elections, and you are right in the criticisms, but this is the circumstances that have been created. I'd like to say a few words to you. The question of compromise yes, GERB may have made some kind of compromise, but it is in the name of the state, something you do not think about. You're thinking about how there should be parliamentary elections. There were, however, no prerequisites for this. We don't have 135 days of protest, we don't have stopped funds, we don't have CCB, no banks fail. On the contrary, the banks are very good. There's no stopped investments. [[Calls from BSP LB.]] And I'm going to add, and there's no bill for electricity to send to the people. On what grounds should there be early parliamentary elections? I'm tired already! There is one way, and I'll give you a hint. Beat us in the presidential elections and there will be parliamentary elections! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u142	Third line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u143	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have listed many important laws that I agree with, but one I will only tell you four times in these 26 years you have ruled the country. Why aren't these laws a fact so far? And the second thing I'm going to say is that I absolutely agree with an agreement on fair elections, because, Mrs. Ninova, I myself am the most victims of them. According to the statement of the Ombudsman Maya Manolova, my ballots are still swimming along the Maritsa River. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u144	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u145	Mr. Atanasov, I will start from the back, these laws were a fact only that GERB repealed them. I will give just one example: the Law on Children with Disabilities. We had accepted their allowances to follow the growth of the minimum wage. They canceled it. Don't tell me everything else. These laws were a fact and they stopped them, so we're bringing them back because we're consistent people and a consistent party. And a social party! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] As far as the other line is concerned, what you are doing is not in the public interest. Did you ask the people who sent you if they wanted their voice to count in one case and not in the other? Whose public interest does that protect? What you are doing is in the interest of power, in the interest of the reforming ministers to go kissing hands and the reformers to stay in the coalition, in the interest of the Patriotic bloc companies to build the fence at the Turkish border. [[Applause and calls from BSP LB.]] And yesterday, the Prime Minister, by election, gave you another 20 million, patriots, to build our border with Turkey. Is that your public interest? This is your personal interest in staying in power, but take your time, patriots! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u146	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u147	If Mr. Borisov has promised you that after the election you will enter the office, take your time. Wait for the election. [[Noise and lines.]] Besides, I understand you're all wearing flash drives now, with... Where's Metodi Andreev? And he was wearing some papers yesterday. Now you with flash drives and folders against me. And I'll tell you, gentlemen! There's order in this country. When you have flash drives and folders, let's go to the D.A.'s office to see how much you have the guts. Write it down, sign it. But you don't have the guts! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You're all talking here because you're behind parliamentary immunity. [[Whispering in the room.]] Go over there and give it to me, let me see you then! Because one of them had, I said, in the previous parliament. Do you know what happened? [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u148	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u149	Yanev in the previous parliament was waving the same flash drive. And Yanev has been convicted of defamation at the moment. Of course, this way buy the council seat at Boyko Borisov, but if you're going to be his advisors, you'll be all of him! [[Noise and lines, applause from BSP LB.]] With such advisors, we will surely beat you on the 13th! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. To speak, the people representative Iskren Veselinov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u151	Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much, when this tribune speaks in this disrespectful manner to MPs, threats are made, including to an independent institution such as the prosecution, to sanction. I understand there's a lot of fear here! [[Noise and lines.]] There is a great deal of tension due to the 37 percent reported yesterday, however, the platform of parliament is not a place where the emotional outbursts of fear can be made public. Thank you. Please sanction! [[(Loud noise and lines. The People's Representative Veselin Metodiev enters the Chamber. Scandized by BSP LB: Me-to-di! Me-to-di!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u152	Mr. Methodiev, please sit down and do not cause applause at this time to you. The word is Mr. Honest Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u153	I'm sorry I might spoil the cheery spirit in this room. I would like to say a few serious words about the opinion of our parliamentary group that it is not appropriate to change the Election Code on the eve of elections. However, it is a fact that this has come to this after a very serious and focused campaign by certain political forces and, in our view, of certain external factors that were aimed at changing some of the rules that we were able to adopt literally a few months ago. It is clear that the main problem of some parties is the mandatory vote. By the way, some here, in the form of a statement as importers, have recognized that they have become a political elite, a political class. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Perhaps they have merged with their seats in parliament, are probably considered an integral part of power and benefit from what is actually the old order, the 25-year-old, provided them with ever lower activity, more and more importance of the bought vote, of the corporate vote, of the ethnic vote. All of this we wanted to change, which is why we proposed the mandatory vote and which is why we will continue to defend it. Of course, there are also those who have appeared in elections with a platform that says that they are for the mandatory vote. Here, from this tribune, they say otherwise. There was also a statement by the leaders of the left that they are for the mandatory vote, are now of the opposite opinion. I guess that's where the opinions are conjunctural. Our opinion is not conjunctural. We hold on to this issue in principle, and even with some unsatisfactory sanctions in our view, we continue to stand behind it and we will reject all the bills that plead to reject the mandatory vote. In terms of sections abroad. A symbol of these sections became the situation in Britain. They are the sugar with which you must swallow the whole bitterness of change, of the positive things that entered the Bill. First of all, there are actually 7,000 applications in England. We shouldn't just automatically divide this number by 60 and say, "Well, there must be so many sections!" After all, 500 people can normally vote in one section. Not to mention that the Foreign Ministry is looking for some of these people who have expressed their willingness to vote and cannot find them. It gives the impression that there is a very organised and perhaps falsified registration of applicants to raise this issue and to use it politically. The patriotic front from the beginning thought that there should be no limitation of sections in the European Union. It was our original idea, that was our original proposal. Under pressure from the President of the Republic and part of the Reformation bloc, which are now very vocal, came this recording, which is currently valid. Why do we think that there should be no restrictions in the European Union, and this is not related to some categorization of our fellow citizens? The truth is that we are members of this European Union. One of the fundamental principles in the European Union is the free movement of people. Anyone who resides in the territory of the European Union, we consider him to be a person who did not break his relationship with Bulgaria, but a person who temporarily resides there under the Union treaties. That is not the case with many other countries, including Turkey, which is so kind to three parties at least in this Parliament: one Reformation bloc, another Moreover, we have people who have alienated themselves from the state, do not identify with their Bulgarian root and they vote criminally literally against our country and against our national interests, but this is another topic, as they say. We are worried about the GERB Bill this possibility for additional urns. We will support this Bill, but we will table between first and second reading the relevant amendments, because we believe this will create chaos on election day. After all, we have no benefit in reducing the sections from 135 to 35 and having 135 urns in these 35 for example. Obviously, this was not our intention when we tabled these proposals. The Turkish-language campaign is another topic that is being raised regularly, with the desire to replace the national character of our country. We can't agree to this thing. We are disturbing how representatives of the BSP in the Commission voted for this thing. We will be interested to see how they will now vote in plenary. It is basically a block of willing to change the Election Code in the direction of opening Turkey's sections without limit, removing the mandatory vote, introducing Turkish as a propaganda language. This block will obviously be made up of BSP, DPS and part of the Reformation Block, which gives no good prospects for the so-called "opposition" because it puts it under control of a powerful foreign foreign foreign political vector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure in the manner of conduct............................................................................................... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u155	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking a line in the way of conduct, because I came in just as Mr. Veselinov started talking. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You could have safely given me my own personal explanation. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u156	Won't there be silence in the hall?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u157	On several occasions, I have asked for silence in the room, both in the left and in the right. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please let me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u158	Since Mrs Cornelia Nino has made some suggestions here, I would like to state the following: no flash drives, no sheets. Whoever of you wants to enter, get into Factor.bg and see all the documents relating to Mrs. Ninova's privatisation activity. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Voodoo "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] Mrs. Ninova, or as I call her, Mrs. 37%. [[BSP LB]] , lied before the eyes of all Bulgarians when we were in the show. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So, Mrs. Ninova, as you are so interested, enter Factor.bg. The article came out half an hour ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u159	Let's really get to the point in the way we're leading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u160	...and you'll see how many good things there are for you. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Proclaims: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u161	Mr. Genov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u162	Mr. Chairman, my preliminary apologies to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u163	I accept them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u164	Do not let this tribune be used by the only MP in the new history of Bulgaria, which has a punishment. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Consider the history of parliament. There, on the website of parliament, it is very well written why and how the only so far MP in the Republic of Bulgaria has been punished. [[Replication by National Representative Metodi Andreev. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't interrupt me, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u165	Please don't get into any altercations with the court. Continue your thought in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u166	Will you deny this tribune that you're being punished? Have the valor, stand up and tell me what you're being punished for, at least let the coworkers know. [[GERB noise and lines]] Because not everyone has heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u167	Dear Mr. Genov, the chairman of the meeting does not have in front of him or the evidence of criminality of the MPs [[Laughter and raging]] nor with any other information regarding their administrative penalties or any other, so we continue. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The word has the popular representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u168	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u169	I gave the floor to the MP Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u170	No, I asked before in the manner of conduct. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u171	After that, I'll give you a chance if you want. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u172	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u173	Mr. Jablyanov, please don't exceed your rights. This must not happen in plenary. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Come in for a speech, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, we are wasting our time in jokes and banter. Unfortunately, this is not a debate. Here, of course, attempts are made to use the parliamentary stands for all sorts of things. There is no debate because the decision has been made. Those who believe here that by speaking very wisely from this tribune, someone will hear them are confused, but I'm sorry to tell you this. We have submitted a bill with colleagues Radan Kanev and Boris Stanimirov, who unfortunately received no support in the Legal Commission, but this is the right decision, honourable Members! We're offering to cancel para. 5 of art. 14 of the Election Code, namely not to set a limit on the sectional committees abroad. The reasons are clear. I do not intend to go into detail, but the decision that is currently being proposed by the supported joint bill... [[Lowered noise]] . Tell these people if they're laughing, they can go to the bar!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u175	Once again, I ask that we respect the fellow Member who is a speaker at the moment and the seriousness of the problem that we are discussing. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u176	The setting of a limit of sectional committees abroad generally violates the rights of Bulgarian citizens who live there temporarily or permanently, but are not deprived of Bulgarian citizenship in order to exercise their right to vote. Now this palliative measure to remove the limit only for the European Union is temporary mending. The problem arose with Britain, and Britain with one leg is already outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u177	They will expel the Bulgarians!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u178	When it comes out of the European Union, we will still change the Election Code. I would like to say a few words about the concerns that we are constantly concerned about how Bulgarian citizens living in the Republic of Turkey will benefit once again and what will happen. In this particular situation, there is a solution to this issue, but it requires political will, ladies and gentlemen of the executive power. I'll give you the lyrics for this. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 is arranged for the formation of sections outside the country. In para. 2 is indicated how this is regulated in the Member States of the European Union. [[Laughter and loud noise in BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u179	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u180	For countries outside the European Union, this is happening with a decision of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u181	They're in the way! Get Svilensky out of here!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u182	At the discretion of diplomatic and consular representations in these countries, if the Bulgarian state in the face of the Foreign Ministry and the government considers that at present in the Republic of Turkey the political situation is such that the Bulgarian citizens living there could not freely express their will that there is no normal democracy there at the moment, let the diplomatic representations report to the Foreign Ministry to send a report to the CEC and to Turkey to vote only in diplomatic consulates and representations. That's why there's no obstacle. This could not be a threat to the Bulgarian national interests. Only there has to be a will, not a double arsin. That is why I believe that this proposal of ours, although at this stage, is not supported, but there will come a time when it will be supported. Let's not just deal with Turkey. I am telling you that if there is political will at the moment, sections outside the consulates and diplomatic representations could not be opened in Turkey if the regime is deemed to be such that it does not allow people to freely express their will if there is a danger that the Turkish state, through its authorities, may influence freedom of will. That's the solution if anyone wants to apply it. Only they don't have the balls to the executive power! Not to mention the scandal that broke this week. Some sort of persecuted people in Turkey came into Bulgaria to seek political asylum, and we to return them quietly at night. But that's another topic. Not to involve her now in discussing the Election Code. Regarding the other neural moment with the famous box. We deal with the consequences. The problem is that the National Assembly adopted in the previous vote to adopt the so-called "famous" vote, I stress the mandatory vote. Fat should be said that there is no mandatory vote. It's just a tool to scare people who aren't so interested in the election process. If the so-called voting had not been introduced, there would have been no need for any squares. It is not the place here to discuss, there are competent institutions in this country. Let the Constitutional Court decide whether it is possible in this country to introduce, according to the current Constitution, a mandatory vote or not. My personal opinion is that it can't and that it's unconstitutional. I'm not a constitutional judge, I'm just expressing my opinion. This is one of the arguments that this is an absolutely unnecessary tool and it will be used or already used by certain political forces to try to force people who do not want to participate in the electoral process to force them to go and express their beliefs. That's the problem with the box in question. You have to tell the truth! Thank you. [[Strong noise in BSP. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u183	Mr. Zablyanov, in the previous debate, I gave the floor in the way Mr. Andreev was led. After that, in order to have a level playing field, I gave one to Mr. Genov. Note that using the procedure in the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u184	I won't use it. [[The National Representative Valeri Jablyanov is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u185	... MPs from GERB are significantly more and could benefit. I would like to draw your attention not to abuse this right of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u186	Do as you're told. There's lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u187	Come in, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u188	Dear Mr. Atanasov, I'm going to give you a line on what you mentioned, and then you said you wouldn't develop the subject. Let us be precise, even more so when the facts in this part are at least such.. Citizens from the Republic of Turkey entered the Republic of Bulgaria to seek political asylum. Those were your words. I think that if you were precise, you should have said: One of the citizens who have illegally crossed the border, entered and exited from the Republic of Bulgaria. Because these Turkish citizens entered illegally and came out illegally from the Republic of Bulgaria. From there on, whether they wanted to seek political asylum or not is another topic. But let us be precise in terms, so that they do not leave any suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line, Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u191	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u192	The time is extended. (Reference to the electronic dashboard.) I'm sorry, Mr. Ismailov, you don't have time. Next line "Velizar Enchev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u193	Mr. Atanasov, I'm making the following line. I see that we are approaching our opinions on the issue of visiting the Republic of Turkey. I propose in this case, as I see that we have identical opinions, that you support my bill of 27 July this year, with which I propose in countries where, at the time the election process is announced, military or emergency or military and emergency situations, polling stations are not opened and elections are not held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the first line of Mr. Lazarov, realizing that he is outside the context of the topic under discussion, but I still have to respond to Mr. Lazarov, detained at the exit. It's true this thing. However, there is another very important moment here, and we, the MPs, need to know what the truth is. It was no accident that we asked the Commission, headed by you, to listen to the services, to provide information. Apart from that, we from the Reformation Block have asked two relevant questions to Mrs. Bachvarova, who had to answer today, however, asked for a week of time to be able to gather information from her subordinates about what happened. I just want to remind you of one thing. Yes, these people have illegally entered Bulgaria, as well as many others who are now illegally entering the country. However, in these cases according to art. 279 of the Penal Code must be initiated pre-trial proceedings, to clarify the circumstances of whether they have committed a crime. By the way, the last paragraph of art. 279 says that if they are prosecuted, they are not criminally liable. The authorities of pre-trial proceedings should clarify precisely these circumstances.... whether these people are persecuted in their own country. So this issue is yet to be clarified. I know what the truth is, but I don't want to speculate here. That's why we want to hear all this. That's the answer to your line. [[GERB lines.]] Since I've been made a line, I'm obliged to answer it. I'm sorry. I didn't want to talk about it in detail. However, I say two things: the removal of para. 5 of art. 14 is absolutely necessary, and if not today, it will happen in the future. The second, there will come a day when you will review the so-called 'vote' when you, here at the centre, will not need the support of a certain political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u196	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of conduct?.....................................................................in the manner of holding................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We have to trust each other a little. My procedure really is the way it is. The debate is heated and I suggest that you introduce some firm, relative firm criterion for what is acceptable to be done from the stands and what is not. It is true that there are heated speakers here, analogies are made, proverbs are given. I suggest you, when it comes to defamation, personal assaults, insulting the personality of the people's representative and other techniques that really demean the dignity of man, do not allow them. I think that you can take the floor, no one will be mad at you. Otherwise, freedom of discussion is mandatory. That's what I wanted to propose to make clear the distinction between these things. I think they can be picked up by an experienced man like you. I wish you every success in your hard work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. [[The National Representative Georg Georgiev wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u199	My procedure with Mr. Haytov, I'm taking it for the second time. My first was about not allowing emotional outbursts of panic to find personification in insults to MPs. You didn't get the attitude. My second is under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Independent MPs are entitled to ten minutes, but none of them have the right to exceed five. This is happening, and you didn't get any attitude. Please, Mr. Haytov, speak on both occasions. Thank you. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u200	Dear Mr. Georgiev! Where the procedure concerns the manner of conduct, the chairman shall be entitled to explain, but he shall have a right, not an obligation. I value very much the time of the National Assembly. Note that a minute of plenary time costs about 3000 BGN. of Bulgarian taxpayers. Leaded by my consideration that we are all obliged to work on the substance here, I only take the attitude when I consider it extremely important even, I would say, urgent. I therefore accepted that it was not necessary to take your opinion into consideration in the manner of conduct. We continue to give the floor to the MP Jayhan Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we have witnessed debates and I am amazed that human rights, the rights of Bulgarian citizens have no value and value for some of the Members of the National Assembly. How many Bulgarian citizens are there outside the country with the right to vote? Over 2 million people with effective voting rights, honourable Members! How many of them vote? No more than 500,000. That's about 25%. Are they Bulgarian citizens? Yes, they are all Bulgarian citizens. This means that the Bulgarian state must do everything possible and provide them with this right to vote after an informed choice. All you have created and done is terror to the Bulgarian citizens to hang for hours for their right to vote their constitutional right to vote. I'll give an example. Abroad, in close elections, a section closed at 10:00 p.m. and there were 350 other people waiting to exercise their right to vote. Honourable Members, it is important for us and therefore our proposals to place as many sections as necessary for the calm running of the electoral process and the election day. We do not want or want any restrictions, whether they are in Member States of the European Union or non-members of the European Union. The state should not run away from its obligations, but it is the executive's duty to take on the role and to fulfil its obligations given to it by the Constitution. You shouldn't turn your head upside down. We must do the impossible to ensure the possible without setting limits on Bulgarian citizens. Here I will address Mr. Kirilov in particular. Two days ago he stated precisely from this tribune that the supreme law in this country is the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u202	And I keep saying that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u203	And you keep going, that's right! But what are we doing today? We adopt an amendment in a lousy legislation and put it above the supreme law, because it is written there, as colleague Tuncher Kardzhaliev quotes: "It is the right of every Bulgarian citizen to vote and it is not an obligation. As for the square, I do not support anyone, we support the principle that this is a vote for someone and it is always a vote for an entity when it comes to elections. However, when it comes to a poll or a referendum, this is a poll. The square is not a question of choice, honourable Members, and thus we corrupt the essence of the choice itself. We're bringing down the choice itself. This is the political immatureness of the proposal itself, I would add, and the political immatureness of the ruling majority. Finally, I will ask the colleagues of GERB to reason! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the popular representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard from both the left and the center, and from the far right about how, you see, the rights of Bulgarians should be protected abroad. Where have you been for 25 years? Twenty-five years no one talks about Bulgarians abroad, suddenly, during elections, we think and say: "We are very liberal, we keep Bulgarians abroad." Yes, we are, too, and we want Bulgarians abroad to vote, but we have been talking about this for 25 years and defending the rights of Bulgarians who are Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarians who are minorities in Macedonia, Serbia, Moldova, Ukraine. What did you do for them? Should I remind a candidate's cabinet at the moment as president, which clearly shows who was the main party in this cabinet, namely the DPS, should I recall what they did to the Bulgarians in Macedonia during their government? DPS and their crutch then BSP stopped recognizing the Bulgarians from Macedonia as Bulgarians and stopped issuing Bulgarian passports, although these people are entitled to it. And these anti-Bulgarians are now talking about that we, from the Patriotic Front or the majority, are violating the rights of the Bulgarians. Diplicity and shame! You of the DPS never vote for anything that concerns the rights of Bulgarians abroad. You can check both in committees and in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u206	Please, Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u207	I am talking about the rights of the Bulgarians and the sections abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u208	I don't know which Bulgarians you're talking about, I don't know who anti-Bulgarians are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u209	Anti-Bulgarian position is this and this is a fact. That's right! It's understandable to BSP. They Macedonianized people in Bulgaria and not only in Bulgaria. It is understandable not to recognize the Bulgarians in Macedonia. I'll say a few more things. We are about this in the European Union, indeed, that Bulgarians do not have a limit and this was the first proposal of the Patriotic Front. It is in the European Union that Bulgarians can open sections everywhere. Because currently under the current Code of Bulgarians abroad, Bulgarian citizens have more rights than Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria. They have the right to file applications and reveal sections. There is no need to have permanent residence in the country in order to vote and are not obliged to vote in elections, unlike the citizens who are in the Republic of Bulgaria. So the Bulgarian legislator has indeed provided for a more relaxed regime for Bulgarians abroad so that really more people can vote. For the sections in Turkey. Yes, we are opposed to Turkey having sections and there are two reasons. The first reason is that we do not want Turkey and Erdogan to define Bulgaria's domestic policy and to organise the elections for Bulgarian President in their country, because for 25 26 years Turkey has been manipulating with its services the voters of Bulgaria's citizens in Turkey, to vote for a certain political entity and thus influence Bulgaria's domestic policy. This is unacceptable! Secondly, gentlemen of the DPS, tell us how the Bulgarian state will guarantee these sections, outside embassies and consulates in Turkey, the security of these Bulgarian citizens who will go to vote on 6 November, provided that there are terrorist acts in Turkey every day, given that there is a state of emergency in Turkey, given that there is a daily violation of human rights in Turkey? How do you guarantee it? No way! If on November 6th a bomb goes off to one section and Bulgarian citizens die, will you take responsibility? Therefore, we from the Patriotic Front will say the following: Our Ambassador Nadezhda Neynski in Ankara made two mistakes. The first gaffe, when as a diplomat already appointed in Ankara, allowed himself to comment on things from Bulgaria's domestic policy and expressed, and said epithets about the Patriotic Front and representatives of the Patriotic Front, which is unacceptable. Secondly, under the current Election Code, it is the ambassadors who must draw up the reasons for how many sections and where they should be organised in a country. That's the second blunder. It risks the lives of Bulgarian citizens in Turkey by offering more sections outside embassies and consulates. She has to go and be recalled. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova. [[Noise and lines.]] You don't have time, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u211	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u212	Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u213	Mr. Chairman, since you've already announced...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u214	Only in the manner of conduct can you make a procedure. Otherwise, the procedures go through your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u215	Since you have already announced that there are no other speeches, I am making a procedure because of the importance of the Law, for a name check, before a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u216	We don't have a vote, so you can't do this procedure. You don't have time for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u217	You said there were no other speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u218	That's all I said, nothing else. [[Reference between the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova and the Chairman.]] That's all I've said, I haven't announced a voting regime yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u219	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u220	You have no right to procedure. You don't have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u221	Voting regime pending. A name check was requested. Give me the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u222	There's no time, there's no time! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u223	Dear Members of Parliament, the time of the debate on the point has been exhausted. We closed the debate, and after that, a roll call procedure was requested. What's bothering you, I don't understand?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u224	We're wasting time. That's what's bothering us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u225	There is no way I can refuse a roll call procedure, just after a closed debate, in which a procedure is being made not in connection with the debate. It doesn't make sense now that I'm giving you a lecture again. I'm so sorry! Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here We have a quorum anyway, and we can move on. In addition, written "Gheorgy Andonov and Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Draft No 654-01-97, tabled by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 27 July 2016. The Commission proposes not to adopt the first vote. They voted 152 MPs: 27, Against 99, abstention 26. The bill hasn't been passed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I ask for a re-vote. I couldn't vote, and my colleagues from the party, Ataka, I was waiting for them to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u227	Colleagues, I'm asking for silence in this Chamber so that what I'm telling you is easier to accept from the microphone. It's a re-vote. Vote 157 MPs: 31, against 103, abstention 23. The bill hasn't been passed. I put to the vote Draft No 654-01-113, submitted by Radan Milenov Kanev, Atanas Petrov Atanasov and Boris Borisov Stanimirov on 11 October 2016 the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed to the plenary that the draft should not be adopted in the first vote. They voted 158 MPs: 32, against 76, abstention 50. The bill hasn't been passed. I put to the vote Draft No 654-01-114, tabled by Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs on 11 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs in plenary is not to be adopted in the first vote. They voted 153 MPs: for 7, against 66, abstention 80. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the end of the voting period. 2 of today's plenary agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u229	With a small amendment on my part and for holding parliamentary control, which according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly is at three o'clock. Today's plenary session is proposed to be extended over the time necessary for the completion of points 1 and 2 for today and for parliamentary control under the Rules of Organisation and Activities of the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote. Do you agree, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u231	Please vote. Vote 151 MPs: 139 against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We continue to vote on another bill. I put to the vote Draft No 654-01-116, submitted by Grozdan Karadzhov, Petar Slavov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov on 13 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to the Chamber is not to adopt the bill in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 161 MPs: 24, against 43, abstention 94. The bill shall not be adopted in the first vote. The next bill, which I will present for voting on your attention, is Draft No 654-01-18. It was introduced by Philip Popov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on 14 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs to plenary is not to adopt the bill of first voting. Vote 162 MPs: 40 against 100 abstentions 22. The bill shall not be adopted in the first vote. The next bill is under number 654-01-19, submitted by Krasimir Velchev, Danail Kirilov, Alexander Nenkov, Georg Georgiev, Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov, Valentin Aleksiev Nikolov on 17 October 2016. The Commission's proposal to the plenary is to adopt the Law of First Voting. They voted 161 MPs: 108, against 35, abstention 18. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u232	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against the draft proposals for several reasons, but I will say only one of them here. If we accept by definition that the elections are a competition, then you strive to secure a professional victory by preventing the Bulgarian voters from voting on their consciences in any way. Moreover, you humiliate him by forcing him to vote and subsequently disregarding his vote. Just a month ago in a similar competition from a much higher rank, a competition for the election of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, you changed the racer of the Republic of Bulgaria in the final rights. Irina Bokova was replaced by Kristalina Georgieva. The result of Bulgaria's dignity was lamentable. [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]] Then you humiliated Bulgaria. Now, because you can't change your racer, you're trying to change the rules of the game. Thank you. [[(Unique applause by BSP LB, individual cheers by DPS: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u233	Thank you, Metin Bey. I put to the vote Draft Law No 654-01-120, tabled by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs in plenary is not to adopt the Draft in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 147 MPs: 25, against 92, abstention 30. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. The next bill, which I am putting to the vote, is No 654-01-121, tabled by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is not to adopt the draft of the plenary. Vote 154 MPs: 37 against 102, abstention 15. The bill shall not be adopted in the first vote. The next bill is No 654-01-122, tabled by the National Representative Lutvi Mestan on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is that the plenary House does not adopt the Draft in the first vote. Please vote. Vote 156 MPs: 20, against 107, abstention 29. The bill shall not be adopted in the first vote. Next is the Draft Law No 654-01-123, submitted by the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Antony Trenchev, Borislav Velikov and Nayden Zelenogorski on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs in plenary is to adopt the bill in the first vote. Vote 152 MPs: 108, Against 34, abstention 10. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Heckling]] Quiet, please! The next bill, which we are putting to the vote, is No 654 01-124, tabled by the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Boris Yachev, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Bajraktarov on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Commission on Legal Affairs is to adopt the Law of First Voting. Please vote. Vote 154 MPs: 110 against 36, abstention 8. The bill was passed in the first vote. The last draft Law on this topic is No 654-01-1225, tabled by the National Representative Chetin Hussein Kazak on 17 October 2016. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is not to adopt the Law on First Voting. Please vote. They voted 153 MPs: 20, against 98, abstention 35. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Are you here for a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u234	Message.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u235	It's 1:57. There is a rest in which the Committee on Legal Affairs will gather to draw up a report. The point is that after the break there will be another very important point related to the climate so that you do not disperse, the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am reporting, as you were informed yesterday, that the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs is in the Chamber of the East. My colleagues, please come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u237	Interruption of 30 minutes. We continue at 2:30 p.m. with legislative activity. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u238	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. First, a message. Today, on 21 October, it was received and distributed to the MPs a common draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted at the first vote on 21 October 2016. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. The report is distributed to the MPs. Coming up next: The Law on the Ratification of theParis Agreement to the Framework Convention of the United Nations for the Modification of the CLIMATE and the Adoption of a Declaration by Art. 1. 9, § 1 of the Agreement. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. You will be introduced by the Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water, National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. The next report, i.e. the second one, belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill ratifying the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and adopting a declaration under art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement, No 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016. At its regular meeting held on 6 October 2016, the Environment and Water Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the adoption of a Declaration on Art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement, No 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016. The meeting by the Ministry of Environment and Water was attended by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Boryana Kamenova, Director of Directorate, Mr. Ivaylo Petkov, Secretary of State. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Atanaska Nikolova. The twenty-first Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris in December 2015 sets an objective to limit the rise in global average temperature below 2°C, compared to pre-industrial levels, continuing efforts not to exceed 1.5°C. Under the Agreement, each Party shall prepare, present and maintain subsequent national contributions for which the Parties must implement national mitigation measures. The obligations under the new Agreement shall be implemented jointly by the Member States of the European Union. The commitment provided does not involve additional obligations of the European Union, including our country, to the internal common objective of greenhouse gas emissions reduction already taken over by the European Union in 2014 by at least 40 per cent by 2030. For our country, according to the European Commission's summer package, an individual target for the sectors outside the European emissions trading scheme in the period 2020 - 2030 is the lowest in the European Union to maintain levels of 2005 The Agreement also establishes a new market mechanism to support emissions reductions and support sustainable development where participation in it is voluntary. Developed countries, according to art. 9, § 1, are obliged to support developing countries financially for mitigation and adaptation activities. The new Agreement does not change the status of our country under the UN and Bulgaria Framework Convention is still considered a country with an economy in transition, and does not fall into Annex 2, which includes donor countries. Our current commitments do not imply mandatory financial contributions. A global review of the implementation of the Agreement and an assessment of collective progress every five years is envisaged and the first will be in 2023. The formal entry into force of the Paris Agreement is an important objective of the European Union and the early ratification by the Member States of the European Union is a priority to avoid the entry into force of the Agreement without the European Union being party to it. With the Ratification for our country will be officially applicable the positive international legislation on the implementation of Bulgaria's obligations to reduce emissions after 2020. After the opening of the debate the MPs took part in the discussion: Borislav Velikov on the Declaration and correctness of the translation of the Agreement, the People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev on Annex 2 and the reference year for our country, the People's Representative Dzhevdeth Chakarov on the need for more information and connection with the national plan for the economy; and the People's Representative Georgi Bozhinov on the supported base year and possible additional restrictions. The detailed answers were given to the questions provided by Ms. Nikolova and further clarification by Mrs. Kamenova. The President invited other speeches and opinions, then closed the debate and announced a voting procedure. On the basis of the discussion and opinions held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and for the adoption of a Declaration on Art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement, No 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016. On a proposal from the President of the Commission with 15 votes for the second vote in the House of the Draft Law for ratification of the respective Agreement was voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce you to the people's representative Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill ratifying the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and adopting a Declaration on Art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement No 602-02-34 tabled by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 5 October 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Bill. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The agreement provides for a new market mechanism for greenhouse gas trading, which will have stricter control and no double counting. Participation in this trade is voluntary. The proposed in art. 2 of the Bill Declaration on Art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement stresses that Bulgaria is not included in Annex 2 of the developed countries, which are expected to provide assistance to developing countries for measures to mitigate the effects of global warming and adaptation to changes. Therefore, Bulgaria will have no financial obligations to provide financial resources. In this case, if there are opportunities, Bulgaria can provide financial resources voluntarily and in the amount our country estimates. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill for ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and for the adoption of the Declaration under art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement, No 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we'll do well today to ratify this agreement from Paris. This is correct in view of what the chairmen have given both committees. The issue on which I want to take the attitude is related to the language used in the international documents that we ratify, the accuracy of the translation of the relevant documents, because what is offered to us is very often not at the necessary heights. In our National Assembly, we must watch for the accuracy of speech in every respect. Perhaps other colleagues have also faced some shortcomings in translation in their work. Hence, naturally, the question arises: who really cares about the accuracy of translation, the compliance of what is translated into official documents, especially official documents from other countries, and what is done in our country? I will give only three examples from the Agreement itself. On page nine, this is art. 13, p. 7a, talk about the National report on the inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removal of greenhouse gas sinks! There are hardly any MPs in this House, perhaps only the Commissioners who will immediately understand what this is about, but I suppose it will be difficult for them to think about, too, it is simply unclear. Article 6, point (c) 3 is translated like this: The use of internationally transferred mitigation results to the nationally determined contributions is on a demanding principle and so on. I don't suppose you understand what this is about? Me too! Please forgive the stenographer for these expressions, but these are a set of written words after each other and sound in Bulgarian and there is no point! And the last example is on the front page where the preamble is spoken. Colleagues, be careful, including from the Committee on Agriculture and Food, if there are colleagues from this Commission. It is written as follows: "By recognising the main priority for ensuring food safety and ending hunger, as well as the particular weaknesses of food production systems to the adverse effects of climate change and so on! It turns out that if this is the right translation, and it is not that there are any particular weaknesses of the systems in our country, for example organizational, administrative weaknesses. At some point, perhaps someone could even condemn the country for admitting weaknesses in these systems. In fact, if a person looks at the translation into another language, too, official, for example in French, he will see that these systems are vulnerable due to adverse climate change. Can it not be said more clearly, as is in other languages' documents?! This Brussels way, this Brussels slang to translate documents that come to our National Assembly, well, I would say quite harmful, to be more diplomatic not good. He also attracts colleagues from our ministries. What do they propose to the honourable Prime Minister to sign in the motives on page two? I read literally: The analysis of funds for the fight against climate change should represent a progression beyond previous efforts. [[Laughter, excitement and single applause.]] What do you say?! This is indeed the tip of Brussels slang in our Bulgarian documents. Colleagues, if you agree, here President Ivanov and I have spoken, I can become the initiator, along with him or with other colleagues, to put an up-to-date question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ask: who is watching over the purity of the Bulgarian language in the translations of international documents? Finally, I would also suggest in the Declaration which we must accept..................................................................................... 2 of the Draft Law, finally, in the last sentence is written: In this context, the Republic of Bulgaria draws attention that as a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is not included in Annex 2. What's anex? We are looking at the Framework Convention which the Thirty-Seventh National Assembly has adopted. It is published in No. 28 from 1995 to the Official Journal. There the reference "Anex 2" is simply not accurate because there is an annex No 2 "Adjective," not an annex. It is good that Bulgaria is not included in this annex, in this annex, as has been said by the reports of the committees, because we will not pay unnecessary, but why should it be an annex and not an annex? We refer to a document adopted by our National Assembly, albeit 22 years ago. Did they then see more about the purity of the Bulgarian language than we do today?! Colleagues, I propose, if accepted, a purely editorial note at the end of the declaration under art. 2 instead of "Anex" let's write "Acceptance." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u244	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u245	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velikov, just one clarification: the translation was made by the European Commission. It is given to us, not translated here in Bulgaria. The translation was made by the European Commission in 1995, 2005, as mentioned by the way, was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and was not published in 1995, but this does not matter. The European Commission has made this translation and has given it to us in this form. Your question is clear, but let's distinguish things a little bit with regard to translation guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Veliv, you are extremely right in what you say. I cannot accept the previous line, but I will tell you what I do not agree with afterwards, because it would be reasonable for this to be the fault of the European Commission if it had not passed through the Council of Ministers before that. And the Council of Ministers could very calmly fix things in Bulgarian and return them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u248	But we have been given the translation by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u249	Translation is translation, not something that should be followed literally. It can be edited and done in Bulgarian! Mr. Velikov, however, this cannot be done through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the Minister himself has worked for foreign language foundations all his life and he has no way to know the pure Bulgarian language, and only this one is accessible to him. Don't write there, you'll waste your time. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Veliv. [[Extreme laughter, lines and excitement.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u251	Thank you for the reply of Mr. President Ivanov. At least you felt something creative while colleague Ermenkov tries to bite where he may have nothing to find.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u252	He's over forty. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u253	Colleagues, if we are to be serious, I must still respect colleague Ermenkov and colleague Ivanov, we must say that it is really good to have a body to watch over the purity of Bulgarian expression in the legal documents that may come from Brussels, or from where state, but so uncritical to come to our National Assembly and we, because it has come from Brussels, to say: "Well, if it has come from Brussels............................................... There may be some great nonsense, it can then be used to bring a case even in Strasbourg, if something is not accurate and is interpreted in some other way. We shouldn't let that happen. We can actually offer the Prime Minister to see whether there should be any authority, maybe not to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, be to the Council of Ministers, some body of regulations, but also those coming from Brussels. I'm against Brussels slang, colleagues. I hope that most of you share, essentially, of course, what I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u254	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. To speak, the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u255	I fully share the assessment of Assoc. Great for the Brussels jargon. He's meaningless, tacky, unbearable and incomprehensible. But in this case, it's not a translation error. The piece you read, Assoc. Velikov, it sounds just as pointless and stupid in both French and English and any other language. The trouble is somewhere else. I've told you before from this tribune, the trouble is that mankind is forced to have an unscientific theory of global warming as a result of human activity. The greenhouse gases mentioned, by the way, make up less than one tenth of the percent in the composition of the Earth's atmosphere. To remind you that this is the third atmosphere on our planet, so far it has three times changed its atmosphere. [[Noise in the room.]] The first time because there was a very poisonous gas called oxygen today. The planet has been warmed since the end of the playstocene, which occurred 10 thousand years ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u256	Please, colleagues, the subject is very important! Be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u257	It has nothing to do with human activity, with exhaust emissions in cars and so on. The planet has experienced two tropical and at least two glacial periods so far. This is done for the purpose of this pseudo-scientific theory, despite the protests of the authentic academic community, to manufacture artificial energy crises, to raise prices, for example, of electricity and thus slow down economic growth. I am sorry, but at the moment the Bulgarian Parliament will swallow another humiliation to vote on this perversion of science that is being offered to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u258	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Genov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the Commission, in addition to the futility of translation and terminology, discussed some other things. You see, the support was 100% for this agreement. I hope these nonsense don't reach into our pockets and into the budget of the state. From the dispute and the discussion we held and from our absence in Appendix No 2, as Mr. Velikov said, the state will have no financial commitments to the ratification of this Agreement. But here comes the question to the government. I raised this issue when we discussed amendments to the Law on Air Cleanliness. One of the main things that the Ministry of Environment and Water should conduct as a policy is the control of the atmospheric air, its cleanliness and its pollution. So the Ministry has a lot of work to do before and after ratification. I wish them luck, but I don't think that's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the adoption of a declaration under art. 9, § 1 of the Agreement, filed under heading 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016. Please vote. Vote 113 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor on a procedural proposal. As you have just announced to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, a report on a general bill of first voting on 21 October 2016 has been submitted to the Court of Justice and three amendments and amendments to the Election Code. The report is number 653-03-104 from today. I propose that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on this joint bill be three days and expire at 18:00 on Monday. This will allow us to schedule an extraordinary meeting of the Legal Commission on Tuesday at 1300 hours. The report was adopted at a meeting of the Legal Commission in the recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u262	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 108 MPs: 98 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall also be dealt with in a second vote. I don't need to read the whole title again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u264	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ivanov, please present the report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u265	Draft Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the adoption of a declaration under art. 9 (1) of the Agreement, No 602-02-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 September 2016. Draft for the second vote: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and on the adoption of a declaration under art. 9 (1) of the Agreement Art. 1. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed on 22 April 2016 in New York, United States, ratifies the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Art. 2. It shall accept the following declaration under art. 9 (1) of the Paris Agreement: "Bulgaria" takes the view that in accordance with art. 9 (1) of the Paris Agreement, developed countries will provide financial resources to support developing countries in terms of mitigation and adaptation over their existing obligations under the Convention. In this context, the Republic of Bulgaria draws attention that as a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is not included in Annex II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u266	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put the bill to a second vote, just as it was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 4. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers: - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Mariana Todorova; - supplement to a written answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on six issues by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to two questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Nikola Hadzhiyski; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a request from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. There are no new requests for the period from 14 October to 20 October 2016. We begin with the first question, which is to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, which will answer a question from the National Representative Rumen Hristov concerning the closure of the weather station at Musala peak. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov, to ask your question to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science! My question is brief. It is related to the closure of the weather station on Mount Musala. As we know, this is the oldest station located on the highest part of the Balkan Peninsula that lasted 84 years. Please answer my question: what is the reason why the Meteorological Station of Musala peak is closed.. lack of funds, lack of qualified staff or any business interests by the Director of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Hristo Brunzov and what measures have been taken? I have no doubt that you have taken action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u268	And thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Hristov! I assume your question is provoked by publications in the media space. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon for us to see that information distributed in mass media, including social media, is highly overexposed or, more precisely, speculative. The truth is that the closure of a High Mountain weather station is possible only by a decision of the Scientific Council of the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology (NIMH) at BAS, and no such proposal for the closure of a high mountain weather station Mount Musala has been submitted to the Scientific Council at all. There's no such thing. Let me figure out what's really going on. A justification was given by the director of NIMH to BAS for the need to temporarily suspend the operation of a weather station at Musala peak. There is a significant difference between suspension and closure. The suspension of the work from 1 October is due to production reasons due to the lack of a manager and available personnel at the weather station. Of the five weather observers required at present there are only three and there is no possibility to redirect trained observers from other high-mountain weather stations. There's no capacity. There is no way for work to continue with only three people, as this would be contrary to the provisions of labour law on working time. 142, para. 4 of the Labour Code, as well as the internal rules of the Institute, which account for the specific working conditions of the High Mountain weather station, according to which one shift should be from two experts. In view of the high mountain conditions and the coming winter season, an order has been issued by the Director. Christomir Brunzov, whom you quoted, for temporary suspension of work. Professor Brunzov assured that timely measures were taken to remove the temperature-sensitive equipment and ground the installations. As for the closure of the station in the future, not only are there no such indications, but also the actions of the institute testify to the exact opposite intentions. The Institute fulfills all its commitments to the maintenance of the station "Musala" and even provides for modernization and automation of the measurements. This year a procedure has been announced under the Public Procurement Act for the supply of high-mountain and automatic weather equipment, and a contract has already been concluded with the winner of the Finnish company Vaisala. The equipment is expected to be delivered by the end of the year and 2017 to be installed. You have to agree that if someone was planning to shut down the station, they wouldn't have done that. I believe that all this disproves any myths about closure, including the upcoming one at the weather station on Mount Musala. Thank you for your question, because in my answer, I hope that I can respond to a public interest that you have, which you are putting quite fairly, and to state the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u270	Thank you, Minister Kuneva. Here you go, Mr. Hristov. You don't want a line. That concludes the questions for you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Have a good day. Dear colleagues, following questions to Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. He will answer two questions which have similar topics, and therefore are determined to be with a common answer. The first question is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev about the need to check the exhibition hall and home house of Todor Zhivkov, part of the Historical Museum The second question is from the MP Velizar Enchev on the care of the state for the Historical Museum in Pravets and the museum complex with gifts of Todor Zhivkov. [[Mister Vejdi Rashidov enters the hall.]] Good afternoon, dear Minister. Mr. Andreev, come in. You have two minutes to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u271	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the Republic of Bulgaria... By the way, let me make some interesting news. They are discussing a very important issue, historically, which concerns the BSP group very much. The BSP group currently has six, seven people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u272	Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u273	Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u274	Please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u275	Previously in Bulgaria, with the adoption in 2000 of the Law declaring the Communist regime criminal, the activities of the BCP and its leading activists were declared criminal. More than that, Art. 2 of the Law explicitly points out that the leading role and the leading leaders of the Bulgarian Communist Party are responsible for the crimes committed, but the most important ones are: conscious violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms; unprecedented confrontation with MPs of the twenty-fifth National Assembly and all innocently condemned by the so-called People's Court; the moral and economic decline of the state. I would like to point out that the successors of the BCP also suffer from this low moral syndrome, posing as social defenders, while being part of a privatization scheme that has been going on for years. Here these days we have talked long and wide about these shameful privatization transactions in which they have engaged a violation of the moral values of the people and an invasion of their religious freedoms. In the context of the above, there is confusion about the admission by the state of the creation of houses. Museums as part of the relevant regional historical museum of communist rulers of this era, including the leading figures of the BCP. The most striking example is the exhibition hall and the home house of Todor Zhivkov, part of the Historical Museum of Pravets. Therefore, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: will you assign the Inspectorate to your Ministry an examination of the exhibition hall and the home house of Todor Zhivkov, part of the Historical Museum in Pravets, whether it unacceptablely spreads communist ideology and praises a regime which is defined as criminal by the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u276	Thank you. Mr. Enchev. [[Mister Vejdi Rashidov wants the floor.]] Wait, Mr. Minister, let Mr. Enchev also formulate in two minutes his question, which is on a similar topic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u277	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On September 7, 2016 was 105 years since the birth of the former Head of State of Bulgaria Todor Zhivkov. On this occasion, Minister, it is important to know how the state cares about the Historical Museum in Pravets and the museum complex with gifts of Todor Zhivkov, most of which are from foreign presidents and prime ministers. I use the occasion to recall that the Historical Museum in Pravets is municipal and Todor Zhivkov's house has been declared a cultural monument since 1985. And since the building is a typical representative of the late Revival type houses and is the only preserved dwelling since the end of the 19th century in the town of Pravets, it is logical for the state to help preserve and promote such local relics, which are of national importance. I stress that. As a representative from Sofia region and elected by the citizens of the town of Pravets as a MP, I express the concern of the citizens of Pravets, the citizens of Sofia area with whom I talked, worried about the insistence of politicians, such as Mr. Metodi Andreev, the museum complex to close down. I believe that the use of the historical heritage for ideological polemics harms cultural development both in regional and national terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u278	Thank you. Dear Minister Rashidov, you have the opportunity to answer. The rules allow you up to six minutes of questioning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Museums in the Republic of Bulgaria are established according to the provisions of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture and the Law on Cultural Heritage. The Historical Museum is a municipal museum which is headed by the mayor of the municipality in administrative and organizational terms. The home house of Todor Zhivkov was declared as a cultural monument by letter of 12 March 1985. The house is typical representative of the late Bulgarian Balkan type houses typical for the region and the only preserved residential building from the end of the 19th century, the town of Pravets. The exhibition is an ethnographic reconstruction of the Revival lifestyle from the region with exhibits from the main fund of the Historical Museum in Pravets. The house is private property and is open to visitors with the permission of the heirs. Near the home of Todor Zhivkov is the former reception building of Pravets municipality. Since 2002 the building has been provided to the Historical Museum in Pravets in order to expand the exhibition area and organize temporary exhibitions. By decision of the municipal council in Pravets from 2010 it was declared a branch of a museum as a museum complex with an exhibition building. The museum complex includes the home of Todor Zhivkov, restored in 1974. The activity of the museum complex is related to the presentation of temporary archaeological, ethnographic, historical and artistic exhibitions, which is a requirement of the Cultural Heritage Act, according to art. 182, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. These museums are currently functioning like museums. For one thing I agree with Mr. Metodiev that no museum in Bulgaria should promote any ideology, because the purpose of the museums is to preserve the historical memory of the Bulgarian state. We should not talk about the closure of museums because we should not close them, but rather reveal museums because they all carry the memory of the Bulgarian nation. How it is charged good or bad, but human history is a string of good and bad things. Yes, I agree to do a check not only on the Pravets museum, but on all museums, whether there are really materials in them that would promote ideology. Then I would be happy to answer your question as to what is the finding. With the closure you want to remove some sculptures from Pravets, because soon it was your group that raised a presidential candidate whose family built all the sculptures of Lyudmila, Mara Maleeva and Todor Zhivkov. I am very worried about this fact, and that is why we need to be careful when we want certain things. Last thing we can't erase is an eraser story. That's why I'm asking you, and I'm appealing to you as reasonable people. You're all serious men here, and we accept history as it is. I came back from Berlin a few days ago. I took the liberty of photographing the monument of the Soviet army. It's impossible to paint it with spray! I went to see the memory of the Jews in the so-called Memorial it is impossible, colleagues, to write with spray! We'll take over the story. It's ours. She could have been both good and bad. The Bulgarian state 1300 years has passed through both the bad and the good, but memory must be preserved. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u280	Thank you, dear Minister Rashidov. First line, Mr. Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u281	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I'm going to put you back on the focus of our question. It does not concern the essence of the house whether it was a monument of culture. Maybe it's a very nice house that Todor Zhivkov lived in. The essence of the question is: does this museum not spread an unacceptable communist ideology? If you remember, we have already commented on this question several times, and we were hoping that you will now answer us on the basis of whether it is true or not. I have prepared some photos for you, which I hope in this inspection, which is obviously coming, to keep in mind and pay attention. The information we have is that within the museum in question, there is a monument in the courtyard of the house on which it is written: I Todor Zhivkov used all the power I had for the welfare of my people. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Many people ask, especially those who were in camps, their heirs, because many people have not survived the camps, ask all those people who were not party nomenclatures in the period until 1989: for whose well-being this power was actually used? We know very well that at that time some were well-being and others were rotting in the camp or standing with 150. salary, even though they had a higher education. But if they weren't party members, they didn't rise. [[BSP LB.]] I hear they're yelling at me about my family on the left. I can say that there were no members of the BCP in my family, and there will not be. I wasn't a communist and I never will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u282	Don't respond to provocations from the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u283	Let them be calm on the left. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let me get back to the point, Mr. Rashidov. I ask you to really check: is an unacceptable communist ideology spreading in this museum? Please make a remark, Mr. Chairman, or throw him out of the room because he's being inappropriate. [[Designs MP Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u284	Quiet, please! My fellow Members, I am not used to parliamentary control having so many MPs and the noise in this House really prevents us from having normal parliamentary control. Quiet, please! Go ahead, Mr. Slavov, I'll give you some time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this sense, we really insist that you do such an inspection. It is unacceptable for a museum to spread the ideology of a criminal regime declared by law! This museum should state what really happened until 1989 in Bulgaria, where there were camps, how these people were sent to these camps...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u286	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u287	...how many of them didn't survive and so on?! This museum should show the objective history that happened and not explain how it benefited the people during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u288	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u289	Become director of the museum!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u290	I'll give it to you on the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u291	Please, not in the Chamber of Job Offers! Here you are, Mr. Enchev. Second line to Minister Rashidov's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u292	Mr. Minister, I congratulate you on the position you have taken. I fully share your opinion. About ideology. Which ideology is being promoted? Yes, the museum in Pravets advocated the ideology of the world war victories anti-hitler coalition, the ideology of Bulgarian anti-fascists, guerrillas and political prisoners, who were on the side of the anti-hitlerist coalition, the Soviet Union, Britain, the United States of America and France. This ideology will be promoted as much as Mr. Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov don't want it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u293	Please, your line is to Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u294	Mr. Minister, this ideology will be promoted because if you ban the propaganda of the ideology of the anti-hitler coalition, that means, Mr. Minister, that they agree with the authors of the Law on the Protection of the Nation, the authors of the Law on the Protection of the State, the law on which hundreds of guerrilla heads and heads of flockers were removed. [[Loud noise and lines.]] In this case Todor Zhivkov is a participant in the anti-fascist resistance, one of the leaders of the guerrilla brigade Chavdar and all the participants in this guerrilla brigade are heroes to whom you should bow your head and remain silent, not deliver sentences!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u295	Please, no more ideological arguments! You have a specific question and a line. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u296	Mr. Minister, according to Mr. Metodi Andreyev's logic in France and Belgium, all museums...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u297	Don't get into a debate with Mr. Metodi Andreev! I'll take your word for it, I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u298	It's time to take her away from me. You're not taking her away from them, you're taking her away from me. [[Loud noise and lines.]] According to the logic of Mr. Metodi Andreev and Mr. Slavov, Minister, should be in France and in Belgium museum expositions that tell about this resistance should be removed and all these collections should be removed. You have very well supported this principle. In conclusion, I would like to say that as a Member of the National Assembly from Sofia, I strongly object to attempts to rewrite history, to review the results of World War II... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u299	Please, your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u300	There is no power that will make me agree with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u301	Enough with the communist propaganda!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u302	Common doppelganger, dear Mr. Rashidov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u303	Dear Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, I regret that you have very politicized and really started propaganda in parliament for a Bulgarian museum, and for a museum. I said if there's an ideology and the museums carry the memory, we'll check and report back to you. [[Heckling]] Yeah, that's how it's supposed to be. We can't use a eraser to erase the historical memory, so agree with that. We can handle this story. So I'm going to give you an example, excuse me, to cheer you up is getting very serious for a museum. Colleagues, it was no accident that I told you that some sculptors of a democratic family for your presidential candidate appeared, I ask: should I remove them too? And they're beautiful portraits. They're beautiful portraits! If you do not know that these are the portraits of Mrs. Maleeva, Ludmila Zhivkova and Zhivkov... A great author made them. However, I think otherwise in this debate and let me keep that in mind in the future. Strangely, things are ideological in this room. I'll tell you the truth. I never said it. I was never a member of the BCP, I was never a member of State Security, I wasn't a member of the UDF, I wasn't a member of the DPS, I wasn't a member of any party. I am not a member of GERB, but I am a minister of GERB and I will be loyal to this party, which has trusted me. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u304	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u305	I ask when I was nothing and your Democrats today are fed a golden spoon of the heavy communist nomenclature?! [[Reply and applause from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, leave the museums alone! Please, from the heart! It's hard to create them, it's hard to make them. Yes, I promise you, as Minister, I will check the other museums for any ideology, I promise you. That's a correct question. Your question is absolutely correct. Yes, we must not promote and preach ideology. Otherwise, there's no harm in Todor Zhivkov wanting his country to be good and to cherish it. Why are we taking that away from him? We all have to live so that we can be useful to the Bulgarian state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u306	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party GERB. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, political science distinguishes several types of parties, accordingly their behaviour is profiled for each of them. It is in the course of an election campaign that each party clearly shows itself with what profile it is and what it is fighting for. This distinguishes the mass from the comprehensive, from the cartel parties, from the elite parties. I believe that in just a few weeks many of the parties and candidates have exposed themselves, in fact, what they are fighting for. Many of those parties who write social or elitist showed that not caring about people's problems, not meeting them, not knowing their problems, are failing exactly in what they should be best at being social. Many candidates who write themselves culturally, beautiful and smart have taken the liberty of using obscene words on national air, with which they have lost even their biggest lever of influence, trying to be different, implying to society that others are more underestimated, less capable, more incompetent, losing this single niche that they had left in political speaking. However, you honourable Members have not just denied your party's profile. You also disowned the candidate you had raised today. Today you distanced yourself from General Radev, and I believe that this is a huge political hypocrisy, with which BSP stands out and not only this time, not only in the course of the election campaign. You propose signing a declaration of transparency, but we ask the question: where will we sign this declaration? Maybe in Kostinbrod? Maybe people will be driven there in white buses? Or would the current Ombudsman Maya Manolova be a guarantor for signing this declaration of transparency? I also want to know which one of you will sign it. The ones who were in the mine in Babino, who were only two years ago making propaganda there, but in a different way with money, buying people's trust, because that's how you're able to do it by buying it. You don't get a vote, you don't get a free vote, you don't get a loan. For you, it is a commodity that is subject to purchase and sale. During this week, many key and important events have happened for the state, which in the years behind have given their impact not only on the economy, on the finances, but also on the lives of people, events that cost our country billions: [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And when this year we decided to make committees of inquiry to deal with the problems, you refused with the motive not to look into the past, but, colleagues, what but the period before 1989 in the past scares you? What shameful and unfair practices do you associate yourself with? I say it myself, because you refuse to participate in these committees of inquiry. [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u308	Please don't call from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u309	You tried to tell us how almost 4 billion spent on Belene is irrelevant to you. [[Calls from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u310	Mr. Gechev, please! I'm gonna have to ask you to be more restrained.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u311	You suggested that there be an inquiry committee for cartels without consulting the vote of the largest parliamentary party, without including the voice of 84 MPs with the one thought of embarrassing and putting in yet another, undeserved isolation, with the one thought of rehabilitating the triple coalition, which today, giving up Radev, is trying to restore Oresharski?! [[Applause from GERB.]] ... With the only thought of being that backstage guy who's been running the country for almost two years and who's holed up in this parliament to have the nerve to scare off elections today, to scare off strikes, to scare off protests. Well, dear colleagues, I remember that cold day when students were beaten outside on your orders. Well, I remember that time when you here were trying to explain how protesters were a silent letter so that you could tell us today that society had risen. Against what, I ask? Against economic growth, Europe's top 5? Against a budget surplus the country has never known? Against the greatest absorption of EU funds or against 7% of unemployment, one of the lowest in Europe? Or against the fact that young people are coming back today, proven in Bulgaria? Or against the fact that, on a daily basis, various investments in the country reveal new jobs? Or that we're really fighting cartels, really behind-the-scenes and gray practices in the economy? Is that what you're complaining about? Is that what you're afraid of? Then, when the deals begin to reveal themselves, does the BSP become the most active? Is this your job in favor of society because we can't understand? And perhaps a very interesting question should be asked: then, when you failed with the one who dug the earth, and now you are offering us the one who falls from the sky to fall into the mine? To fall where you've done some of the biggest recently proven scams. [[Applause from GERB.]] Well, colleagues, that's not just cynical. This is something that does not give you the right to turn to the Bulgarian citizens with this arrogance with which you do it, including from this tribune, because holding a political campaign and election campaign, colleagues, is asking for trust, but not with some hollow promises, but with you coming out with your eyes and with your results. In the past ten years, unfortunately, you cannot boast with results, and before that you boasted with undisputed results that cost the Bulgarian society not only energy and money, they cost lives because many people in the 1990s, when they lost their money in the lost and bankrupt banks, many people may not be able to restore the health they lost in those years so that today you can go out and talk about financial stability. No, you have no right to do that! And so that I can finish what I started saying: colleagues, when a political force is unable to mobilise its own capacity [[BSP LB lines and calls]] Then she has no more right to wash her hands with society and with others who are trying to work for him. Then it must deal with its own problems and realize whether it is entirely at the height of a political party, parliamentary represented, one on which trust has been voted, albeit by a smaller number of citizens, but trust that has burdened it with responsibilities. And this responsibility of yours today does not require you in any way to try the destabilization of the country. This responsibility does not make you opposed just to ask for resignation in the clear knowledge that you have neither the opportunity nor the capacity to offer anything else, because many of the countries you are trying to give examples when you talk about resignation, about a vote of no confidence in your pocket is the composition of the new cabinet. What are you going to offer us again, Oresharski? Again the ministers whose names he didn't even know? [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] And knowing that you have nothing to show up for society today, you should not try to bring the country into that vicious circle in which it was in the 1990s, in which it was between 2005 and 2009, in which it was between 2013 and 2014, because in such a case you are not a political force, you are not a party within the meaning that each one represents and integrates public interests in political life and in the country's governance. Then you are just some interested people who are fighting for power themselves, who, however, do not know what to do with it, but know that fighting for power is exactly the process in which it is most easily lost. And you're exactly about to lose what little you have left, but not just power, but dignity. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u312	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. [[Applause from GERB continues.]] There's no way to make an encore, please. Let's stop clapping. [[Applause from GERB continues.]] Quiet, please! Next is a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov. Quiet, please. During the declaration of the parliamentary group of party GERB there was normal silence. Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] Mr. Merdjanov, I'll make a note. Your voice is constantly floating in the parliamentary room. I'm really warning you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Bulgarian Socialist Party has nominated General Rumen Radev for President. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u314	Mrs. Dukova, your voice is really strong and we can't hear each other. Go on, Mr. Jablyanov. I apologize. I'll extend your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u315	Can you do your best if your colleagues don't have the opportunity to behave differently, to remove someone from the room. [[Replications, laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u316	They're out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u317	Thank you. Bulgarian Socialist Party Raises Candidate for President General Rumen Radev [[Laughter]] and it seems to me that this fact, as well as that the political party GERB has its own candidate for president in the face of Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva, has nothing to do with the current parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u318	You didn't raise anything. You didn't raise him, he's on the Initiative Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u319	Pay attention to Mr. Lazarov, please. [[Reply from GERB: He is lying, it was the Initiative Committee.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u320	Please, I'll really make an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u321	When a person speaks the truth, words come out on their own.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u322	Stop, please, really, Mrs. Sokolova! Go on, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u323	Choose one of your colleagues from GERB for punishment and do it for edification. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u324	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u325	I believe that the rise of any candidacy is irrelevant to parliamentary control, firstly. Secondly, the Bulgarian Socialist Party, with the convening of a meeting of the National Assembly by signing last week, managed to save parliamentaryism in Bulgaria from the personal regime of Boyko Borisov... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u326	Where are you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u327	...who disbanded parliament in an agreement with the Political Party. This is the political scandal in Bulgaria today and only from this point of view should the actions of political parties be assessed, not from the point of view of abstract political theory. The courage to leave Bulgaria a month without parliament is a high manifestation of the understanding of the current prime minister for the exercise of sole power regardless of the Constitution, regardless of the laws and whether Bulgaria is in a campaign for the election of the President of the Republic. The Prime Minister deliberately disrupts the democratic political regime in Bulgaria, deliberately violates the Constitution and deliberately attempts the presidential election campaign to turn it into a legislative chaos through the amendments to the Election Code. Today the National Assembly dealt with a few hours of amendment in the Election Code [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] of their own nonsense, which were created in July as a result of a series of so-called historical compromises. The liberal and right-wing political parties introduced the compulsory selective law in Bulgaria, which is without precedent in Bulgarian political history. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u328	We are now in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u329	Even during that regime that you tried to convict and that you just talked about...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u330	In a statement, he can't mention an agenda. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u331	We are currently in parliamentary control mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u332	Please! I therefore insist that the Political Party GERB apologize to the Bulgarian citizens, to the political parties, because it tried through authoritarian, through ineligible methods to fight with the National Assembly, to win unfairly the presidential elections, to change the agenda of the election campaign and to humiliate the democraticly thinking Bulgarian citizens. This party with such authoritarian reflexes will surely lose the presidential elections and then have to adjust to functioning in democratic conditions. What was done today with the Election Code...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u333	You can't talk on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u334	...the change of election rules in the day and in the course of the election campaign itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u335	Mr. Zablyanov, please take a look at your regulations. Today we had this item on the agenda. The declaration shall be explicitly described and shall not affect this agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u336	I'm sorry that the declaration concerns these issues. [[GERB noise and lines]] , but these issues are on the agenda of the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u337	You're breaking the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u338	I do remind you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u339	The questions that have been set out in the declarations of colleagues in the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u340	I remind you: this topic, please, cannot be the subject of a declaration. Go on. In the next mention, I will make a remark and take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u341	I thank you for your principled approach to holding the meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u342	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u343	...but he's pretty one-sided. [[Noise, lines and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u344	Thank you, but I'll take your word for it, of course, one-sided. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u345	The exhibition of colleague Georg Georgiev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u346	You can't comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u347	I can comment, of course. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u348	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u349	...it has been stricken with arbitrary interpretations of Bulgarian political history over the past 15 years. Our advice to colleagues from GERB is to engage people with longer political memory [[Laughter and excitement from GERB]] from the Bulgarian political life, which can submit the facts fairly objectively, without trying to produce manipulations that directly affect the fate of people, the past of living people. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u350	How to rob the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u351	Try an initiative committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u352	Can you please somehow get these people in line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u353	You're losing your mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u354	Can you invite them to stop?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u355	Mrs. Sokolova, I'm making a remark to you that once again in this room, you are preventing the speaker from exposing his thesis. Go on, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u356	Thank you very much. Political democracy and its principles, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, clearly show what foundations the elections should be made on. And what you have done today, and have done in recent weeks with your political actions, with the attempt to stop the work of the institutions, of the state, with the attempt to replace legislation in the last minutes of the election campaign, is an expression of your understanding of what the political democratic order is. Therefore, I think it is well deserved that Bulgarian citizens will make an assessment of what you are doing in the National Assembly for a year and a half, of the attempt to impose the personal regime on Borisov, of the attempt to undermine the foundations of the Bulgarian democratic state, which were created by the Constitution of 1991. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Finally, democracy, honourable colleagues from GERB, is a belief and understanding. When you want to win the election, you have to stick to the election rules. When you want to convince the Bulgarian citizens of your right, be sure of yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u357	Don't repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u358	Your own insecurity cannot give power to your constituents. Therefore, we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party address you best: observe the democratic order, stick to the objective Bulgarian history, do not try to solve the elections with forgeries and manipulations as always!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u359	Kostinbrod, Kostinbrod!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u360	It's not gonna work this time. This time the Bulgarian citizens will vote for real. The minutes will be written as are the ballots submitted by citizens. Then as a result of all this, you will lose the election! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u361	Thank you. Any other affidavits? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're continuing with parliamentary control. There is a question from the National Representative Mr. Enchev about the unacceptable privileges of admission of students in the National Cultural Complex with Lusus for the study of Italian language and culture. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u362	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister Rashidov, let us go from the museums of communism to the state crib of capitalism, where only children of the elite are of state support. Mr. Minister, in the National Educational Complex of Culture with Lusius for the Study of Italian Language and Culture with the participation of the Republic of Italy are accepted children and students from three to four years to the 19th grade. This state-funded public school, however, mainly includes children of prominent and high-ranking executives, political life, large business, culture and media, which raises the alarming question of objectivity in the reception of both kindergarten and secondary education groups. I have a series of questions for you, but in essence the question is one: why do the criteria for selection of candidates in this elite state college favour mostly children of parents from the senior state nomenclature, politics and big business?! How is it possible that only children of the above mentioned social categories are most gifted and that they meet the admission requirements, while watching several generations of the same family subscribe to this school?! Just out of respect for these families, I can't say their names. Why should the taxpayers, Minister Rashidov, pay the expensive training to those children whose parents have solid financial opportunities not to say more than solid financial opportunities?! Isn't that, Mr. Minister, a public violation of the moral and ethical codes of our education system, of every educational system in which equality should prevail?! And it rules out privileges of property and power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u363	Thank you. Answer from the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u364	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Enchev, the reception of children and students in the National Complex of Culture with Lusius for the Study of Italian Language and Culture is carried out according to Ordinance No 3 of the Ministry of Culture and the conditions in it. The selection procedure for pre-school groups and first class is a test check aimed at measuring the level of development of cognitive abilities, creative thinking and non-verbal characteristics of their intelligence. The first-class tests shall take into account the educational content of pre-school training. The admission procedure shall be anonymous and shall be carried out subject to all the rules described in the Ordinance. The evaluation committees are from different specialists. The names of the candidates are placed in small envelopes which are opened by a separate committee after the evaluation and completion of the protocols with code numbers. Candidates shall be ranked according to the order of the prom on a general basis and shall be accepted according to the state admission plan. In eighth grade students are accepted who have graduated seventh grade in the National Culture Complex with a success of no less than five. The openings shall be complemented by external candidates in the same order. The conditions laid down in Ordinance No 3 of the Ministry of Culture shall ensure objectivity in the assessment and acceptance of applicants. The selection criteria are high. Every year there are 70 students fighting for one place. The educational complex is one of the most preferred schools because it employs highly qualified teachers, including Italian educators. Children of nine nationalities are trained at the school. The right to apply has everyone, regardless of the origin of the candidates and the situation of their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u365	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u366	Mr. Minister, I have a series of uncomfortable questions for you. Besides that only children of the elite are inside, if I have to mention the dozens of families of famous oligarchs, businessmen, chalga singers and singers, I want to ask the following question: why are the results of the elections not anonymous, but the three names of the child known and known who the parent is?! Why at the kindergarten reception of three-year-olds... In fact, how do you rate these three-year-olds that some are more talented than others? Is there such a methodology in world practice? And why is there a week until the exam at kindergarten, which understands the criteria and test protocols? In a week, who can understand when the exam is, what are the requirements, and how should his child be prepared? Of course, the answer is only the children of the chosen ones know. I have information that I am willing to provide to the investigating authorities that the exam questions are provided to a certain category of people, mostly to the chalga elites and oligarchs who pay for it. I stand by those words, and I'm prepared to bring them to the D.A. with two witnesses. I would also like to ask you the following question: why in the control of the reception, in art. 30 of the school is told that the assessments made by the examination committees are final and a review is not allowed, Mr. Minister?! How is it possible that there is no appeal or review?! Condemned to death for pedophilia has the right to appeal and review the sentence, and there is no right to review and appeal for something that is terribly subjective! All this seems extremely unfair to me. So I think, Mr. Minister, and I suggest you: you should perform an examination at this school, and it should be independent, the commission should not be made up of only your subordinate employees and people dependent in any way on this school to see this school become a state feeder of the Bulgarian elite, a feeder paid by the state, unlike the museum in Pravets, which is municipal property and is fully alimony of the municipality?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u367	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u368	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Enchev, I'll allow myself a brief comment. I am a little worried about this issue for a simple reason that this is one of the best schools in Bulgaria. That is why the influx is very high at this school 70 students are applying for one place! This is about the authority of a woman who has been running the school for thirty-something years. And if it's on a high level, it's thanks to her skills. I want to honor her work, 30 years devoted to this school. I hope that when you say about the elite, the children of the Bulgarian MPs, I suppose they are not stupid. Bulgarian MPs are smart people, educated people. I hope that their children are growing up in a well-educated environment. We can't share and ignore the children of one and the other. I also think that we should not share the children with the parents of the chalga singers and others. Yeah, she's got exams. It always will be. Sure, I'll do a background check. I agree. If there's a real signal, I'll let you know. You're right to do a background check. If that's the case, I'd be happy to tell you next time what we did. But it's nice when we talk about kids, let's not separate them. She's got exams. You know, it always is. When 100 people are admitted, because that's how many people are accepted, and others are left out of line, 300 people who have not entered, you know that they all say, "We have been talented, but our child has ignored it, and the counting of chicks begins. I taught seven or eight years at the Academy of Art many years ago before I got kicked out. Mothers always used to come to the exams and say, "Our child paints very well, but they didn't accept it. It seems that the bonders are more. - God forbid! I don't think so. I am telling you this in the name of preserving the authority of the Bulgarian teachers in these schools, preserving the authority of the Bulgarian principal who has managed this school for 30 years. That's why it's very preferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u369	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next you will be asked by the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov, Metodi Andreev, Grozdan Karadzhov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov about the progress in the policy of the Ministry of Culture regarding the introduction of the competition for all positions in the system of the office. Mr. Slavov, you have the opportunity to develop the question within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u370	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Our question really concerns progress in the policy of the Ministry of Culture with regard to the introduction of the competition for taking all the positions in the system and especially the management positions. Dear Minister, the introduction of the competition for all positions in the administration, both senior and expert, is one of the priorities of the current government's management programme. The same applies to the heads of departments and structures in the system of individual ministries. In relation to the above, MPs from different parliamentary groups have asked you questions regarding different institutes in the Ministry of Culture system, in respect of which the requirement of the Act for mandatory conduct of a competition for the position of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Among the brightest examples are the National Museum of History, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage (NINCN), the National Film Centre, of course, not least the National Music School. Indeed, we are reporting that the state and cultural institutes in the system of the Ministry of Culture, for which such competitions must be held, are over 100. But this cannot be a reason to endlessly delay the execution of the law and the conduct of the competitions. Particularly disturbing is the situation with the directors of the National Museum of History, the National Music School, the National Music School, and for the first case received by the Ministry of Culture information in response to a parliamentary question, the competition for director of the National Museum of History was held in the distant 2007. At the National School of Music more than 20 years ago, and since then no competitions have been held. All of this is contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Laws requiring not only a competition to take up the position of.............................................................................................. In relation to the above, Dear Minister, please respond to the following question: what is the progress in the policy of the Ministry of Culture regarding the introduction of a competition for all expert and management positions in the department system, including with regard to the uninformed in the legal period competitions for the directors of important institutions such as the National Museum of History, NINKN, the National Music School of Lubomir Pipkov and others? When will the law be implemented and competitions will be held? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u371	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u372	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Slavov, in accordance with the current regulatory requirements, the Ministry of Culture has gradually announced competitions for the selection of director of state cultural institutes, agreed conditions for holding a competition for the selection of directors of all municipal cultural institutes, gives methodical instructions in the implementation of competitions for elections of directors, regional cultural institutes and participates with its representative in the committees for the selection of director of the cultural institutes in the country. In the field of museums and art galleries the provisions of the Labour Code do not set deadlines for the announcement and holding of the competition. In this respect, there is no breach of labour law regarding both the launch of competition procedures for taking up the position and the designation of persons to occupy them until the competition takes place. The competitions for taking up the post of Director of the State and Cultural Institutes are announced by order of the Minister of Culture by Decree, No N "4" of 14 June 2007 for holding the competitions for directors of the State Cultural Institutes. There is no time limit for the Minister to issue an order to announce the contest. The planning of the competitions and their consistency shall take into account the current status of the relevant Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u373	Thank you. Dear Mr. Slavov, you have the opportunity for two further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u374	Dear Minister, my supplementary questions are related to the so-called basic question, because it seems to me that you did not answer it. I can agree with you that, in fact, your order determines whether or not to have a contest, but I cannot agree with you when the law provides for a contest to take place when it provides for every five years to hold a contest, that you accept that the situation being welded at the date of entry into force of the law may continue for years and that a contest not be held. I gave you a case: over 20 years, no contest has been held, even if the law requires it. To accept the obnoxious thesis in practice means that the law is being circumvented and competition may never be held. Once again, I ask you to say: are you committed to holding such a competition especially for these so important institutes, which I have listed the National Museum of History, NIKN, the National Music School (Lyubomir Pipkov) and so on? With regard to them, would you engage within some reasonable period of time in the order of several months, half a year, one year, if it were to be, to issue an order and to conduct competitions? Otherwise, keep in mind that in the public domain there is almost suspicion of any personal friendships, for which reason you do not announce these contests. I am convinced that if the persons, as you have said, who are in charge of them, are so capable and capable, I do not see any problem for them to come to the competition in question and win it. It's the most natural and logical thing. When a person feels secure and confident about the work he does and the results he has achieved, he should not be afraid of an open exam as the competition would appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u375	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Rashidov, you have the opportunity to answer specific questions within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u376	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Slavov! Of course, I'll give you an answer. Before that, however, I would like to tell you a few things other than that I have prepared myself for the four things you are asking me about, and I have a clear answer. Mr. Slavov, because you said I didn't keep friends. In a government of Mr. Oresharski, I was accused that I didn't run any contests for example in any theater and in no cultural center there are 12. Do you, Mr. Slavov, that I couldn't put my cousins in these sweet places? I could have. I didn't, and I'll explain why. In Bulgaria, we have a difficult problem - management of the arts, management of the culture as a whole. Unfortunately, we do not have an institute to conduct and prepare footage for the management of culture. Not everyone who's a culturtreger can manage. Management is one thing, making art another. The problem arose to see who could handle the issue. That's why I didn't hire anyone close to me to tell you. I was blamed for that. I could have. I want to tell you that these contests, however democratic they may be, are creating great difficulties. Next time I can give you what kind of people are assigned to the cultural centers. People who don't know what culture is. It's very difficult to work, I'm telling you frankly and honestly, understand correctly. Even for cultural centers, what represents and promotes our national spirituality and culture, and at the highest level we must do so, I believe that even the competition start is harmful and is even somewhat vicious. Because the Code of Labour is four years old, dramas. I don't want to fire anyone. I don't want to look for tares. Unfortunately, that's what competitions do sometimes. You know how heavy a machine is like the National Theatre. We finally found a man who calmed them down and united them. What's the most important thing? The collective to be motivated, to be calm and to work. About the History Museum. Yeah, there's no contest. Look, I'll tell you. Nobody knows the History Museum until the end of the day. Yes, he's an exceptional, efficient man, and I need someone who understands this matter. He's one of our toughest museums. I have to let you know. Yes, of course, NINK is a problem, but someone has to be able to control it. We have very few people and we look for a very capable person who can organize this activity, and we find it difficult. One hundred and sixty thousand cultural monuments 15 people process the plans of the cities, Mr. Slavov. It's not easy for us. We're not gonna have a contest. Music school. I asked them to wait two more months. The woman is retired. She's worked fair and square her whole life, and she's a good director. It's only a matter of a few months, so let's send her out with gratitude, with respect to her work, to the years, to the life she's given. You're right in principle. We do not circumvent the Law because it does not set deadlines. We respect it. Yes, but we would very much like, Mr. Slavov, to manage these institutions, because the big drama is when a person comes in accidentally, who can't not not be called an incompetent person, because you have to have a shot, the word "caution" can, then is the drama. The drama is to free him, the drama is to develop and affect the fate of a bunch of people who work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u377	Thank you, dear Minister. To hear the attitude to your response, which the people representative Petar Slavov will take. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u378	Dear Minister, I am really glad that you distinguish between interpersonal relations and professional relations. This is also the meaning of the Law to record the competition beginning, precisely as a guarantor, that these relations will not be mixed, and even less to involve family relations, as you mentioned. That's why I congratulate you! Let me stay on the point that a competition can only do good for these institutions. By the way, I don't personally know any of the people who run them. Of course, I am familiar with the public image of some of the people, and I sincerely admit that I do not approve of the various attempts to speak almost as from the last instance of one or another of these people. In order not to go into detail and personal shade again, I think that it would be a competition that would allow, including more candidates to appear and people that you probably don't know personally, perhaps our countrymen from abroad to come, who worked there, in museums there, in cultural institutions there and they would run equally with the current directors of these cultural institutes and then pick the best. It is to be broadcast in a transparent procedure, to receive trust from society, and then not to follow such awkward questions to you. This is the point and conceptually this is at stake in a competition beginning and not only in the system of the Ministry of Culture, but everywhere. Otherwise, there can be no doubt that personal relations, personal motives and so on are involved and that there is no competition and waiting for so many years without such a meeting. Once again I use to call you: Consider, perhaps a little more time is needed, but make the necessary organization, hold these contests, and let us, if there are no candidates, then the current directors of these institutes to win the contest and five years to continue to work, as you say, in a good way. But let's do it in public, in front of the public, so there's no doubt that they've been tolerated in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u379	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, thank you for your participation. Good night. We continue with the next group of questions that are addressed to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. First will be asked by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski about the Bulgarian government and the Ministry of Interior policy related to the protection of the life and health of the citizens travelling on the roads of Bulgaria, as well as the measures for increasing safety on the roads. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I was a little worried before I asked this question, because there was not a single representative of GERB in the plenary. I thought the parliamentary group had taken the trust out of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u381	Please stick to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u382	Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman. I'll ask the question. Madam Minister, as a responsible minister for the safety of the Bulgarian roads, the victims, the wounded, a year and a half ago you promised the MPs of the Transport Commission that you would take over the manual management of the problem of reducing the victims and dealing with road safety. However, for a year and a half, the results are not what you thought they would be, doing nothing. Since you say that we at the BSP like to make up numbers, we like to make up facts, now I will quote the numbers from the public committee, which are clear and clear what happens to the victims on the Bulgarian roads since you are a minister. - 2012 "601 people died; - 2013 "601 people died; - 2014 - 661 people who died; - 2015 You are the Minister of this Ministry throughout the year 708 who have died; - in 2016 until October The trend that's going so far, this year you're going to beat this sad black record. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, in 10 years more than 10,000 Bulgarian citizens have died. In other words, a town like Sopot disappeared from the map of Bulgaria. In ten years more than 70 thousand are permanently injured and disabled Bulgarian citizens. That is, a city like Yambol or Pernik is permanently disabled as a result of the policy that has led not only your government, but everyone before you. Here is the point to note that in the first GERB government there were results in this direction and this should be noted when the trend was a sharp reduction of the victims on the roads. I therefore allow myself to ask the question to you as Minister: how did Mr. Tsvetanov then make the road casualties decline, and now that you are the minister of this ministry, the victims grow sharply? What are you doing in this direction? My question is: as a minister whose direct responsibility is the safety of the road traffic in Bulgaria and in relation to the sharply increasing number of people killed and injured, following road accidents, please answer the following: What is led by the Bulgarian government and by the Ministry of Interior policy related to the protection of the life and health of the citizens travelling on the roads of Bulgaria and what measures have you taken to increase safety and reduce the number of people killed and injured as a result of road accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u383	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u384	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Svilenski, I will refer to your statement and conclude that the BSP Parliamentary Group obviously trusts me greatly when I see your presence here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u385	You've highlighted it several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u386	No, you're assuming that you find it very original, but something seems inconclusive to me. You said I was running away from answers. I have never run away from answers, just the objective timetable of Parliament, and mine has never given me the opportunity to answer this extremely important question. I think you're making a very ugly speculation. It is clear that BSP has never been good at understanding common trends and European policies. The Commission therefore concludes that
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u387	Mrs. Bachvarova, let's move on to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u388	Yeah, I'm just answering. After 2010, there has been a total increase in road accidents in Europe. This is reported by psychologists, by people who analyze this phenomenon as a post-crisis phenomenon. That is, people drive more cars, longer and ultimately this is a problem for all European countries. If the number of victims depended on the minister, I am willing to reduce that accordingly, but unfortunately it is not, and I think that each minister is responsible for the particular development of the situation between 2010, especially since the time of your management, many things have been done in terms of road safety. They are related to new technological solutions, of course, to traffic control systems, to speed control, to video surveillance systems, to systems that are installed in police cars, but mostly related to the creation and strengthening of the common environment in which this activity takes place. Therefore, my personal understanding and logic of political behavior and decision is that: Firstly, a complex of measures should be sought, not single measures and this is the direction in which we work. Secondly, there is no possibility that it has been a socially significant problem at the moment to be resolved without involving all institutions that have direct competence in this situation. Therefore, both in terms of domestic crime, both in terms of the fight against smuggling and in terms of road safety, our policy is aimed at involving different institutions and activating them, because the state in which they were found and in which they were welded is that they, following their main functions, neglect those additional ones which are related to problems of the competence of other ministries. Yes, there has been some increase in traffic accidents in the last year, but maybe you haven't properly checked The analysis of this situation makes us take concrete measures in places where there is a higher risk and an increase in the number of road accidents. The specific measures we have taken recently. We have prepared and established a plan for improving the road safety activity in Bulgaria, and the main place is dedicated to prevention. Prevention is an activity which I find so far has been completely ignored by previous guidelines. With the changes in the Road Traffic Act, a number of new control measures and stricter penalties will be launched, whose effect we expect will be tangible. I hope that this Law will be passed soon. I would just like to remind you that this bill was submitted in October last year, a whole year being considered. There are many remarks and suggestions regarding it, but we have tabled it and it reflects our view.. severe penalties and differentiated measures in relation to the different types of offenders. With my order from a few months ago, the circle of police authorities has been extended, which have the right to exercise control over compliance with the rules of movement. An additional number of employees across the country have passed training for rules and control activities and after a successful examination under the Road Traffic Act have already carried out these functions, that is, we have expanded the scope of our control activities in this way. As a result of the organisation established since the beginning of the year, the number of detected infringements, for which acts and tickets under the Road Traffic Act have been drawn up in relation to the same period for the previous year and to previous periods, which for those acts were generally not presented and the fines by them were not sought. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The main part is related to non-compliance with speed limits. We are in the process of conducting public procurement, which aims to increase the number of technical means for speed control by nearly 30%. The automated system for handling electronic slips shall be activated. Automation and exchange of real-time information with the NRA shall be introduced. In July, we put into service electronic services for payment of fines and acts. The aim is to respond as quickly as possible and collect these fines and acts. We are developing and in the beginning of 2017 we will start serving fines and tickets by DMV employees, by introducing printers in all cars of DMV we are working, it is developed, the order is finished. A number of measures were taken to improve employee control, video surveillance cameras. We're currently in a test period on the personal cameras that we're planning to equip our employees with. They were purchased and tablet devices will be operational by the end of the year for all traffic patrols for faster inspection. They will improve and expand control and will build direct links with car reviews registers, driving examinations and other activities related to this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u389	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Svilensky, come in for two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, if you had not dealt with my presentation of the questions, whether it was original or not, you would have had enough time, but this is your behavior whenever you stand here in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u391	No, it generally applies to all the questions asked and to the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u392	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I don't think it's good to talk like that behind our backs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u393	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u394	Madam Minister, from your statement I have found one thing that you haven't even understood who introduced the Law. You didn't introduce the Road Traffic Act. Don't you get that? You as Minister, as the Council of Ministers, and as whatever other function you want, which you represent, you have not introduced a Road Traffic Act, a draft amendment or a new law. Since you have done nothing for four months, colleagues from your parliamentary group have been forced to submit something that, by accepting it in the first vote in this House, all the texts have dropped out in the second vote. What did you offer?! And these are the measures you're going to fight the victims on the road?! A year and a half nothing, your Ministry zero job, zero! Otherwise, we talk, we buy printers, we buy tablets. Those tablets aren't gonna reduce the casualties. My statistic is very true. 565 killed if the trend is the same by the end of the year will be 720 and you will beat the record. It is not true what you say that the trend in Europe was because people traveled. No, not because people travel, because people see that there is no power to control them, no power to protect them and do whatever they want, of course. It's your place to intervene as a minister. And you said it in the Commission, you remember the Chief Prosecutor, Minister of Transport, Minister of Regional Development, these are all institutions. Who else are we gonna catch? The Holy Synod to invite him to participate in the Commission and he, if he has to write any text?! From all the work on this policy, I do not want to comment on the others you are responsible for, your ministry is going through a complete failure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u395	Do you have two supplementary questions since your time is up?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u396	Yes, I do. The two supplementary questions, Mr. President, are: do you think, Mrs. Bachvarova, as Minister of Interior, that you start fulfilling your duties as the prime minister responsible for traffic safety by submitting a new Road Traffic Act? I repeat, a new Road Traffic Act that we all need and this has become clear to the Commission in which you participated? When are you going to do it? By the way, there's not much time until November 6. My second question is: what measures will you take to increase the effectiveness of road control, as well as administrative and criminal activity, given the findings of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office on your ministry's actions on these issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u397	Thank you, dear Mr. Slivensky. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please respond to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u398	Well, it's a little hard to answer the supplementary questions, too. Let us accept this proposal, which is currently in parliament, I think it went to second reading. I think the only way to make an effective policy is to change the law. Until these already tabled and discussed proposals come into force, we cannot say whether or not this Law is working. That's my belief. As far as my duties as a minister are concerned, I think I'm doing quite well because the organisation that we were able to create last year and this year by redirecting separate patrols, creating job priorities, especially for the secondary roads and control in them, for cooperation with the NRA and other institutions, gives results, but unfortunately, we need more time. The safest thing is to introduce the speed control system. That's why we've been working all year, and if we can make it happen as soon as possible, I think we'll have the best results, because the biggest share of traffic accidents are due to speeding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u399	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for consideration. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, of course, I didn't expect you to answer my questions, because if you knew the answer, you would. And that's normal when you know how to solve a problem to solve it, not to wait for a MP from the opposition to place it. But, anyway, you have been honored to answer for this activity, at least I ask you not to solve this problem for the Bulgarian citizens, as you solved the problem of refugees or the problem of domestic crime. In these two areas, you are suffering absolute failure, and this is the third sphere that I have told you with facts, not because I am making it up and not because you are not sympathetic, on the contrary, these are my facts and my work by the Commission. I really ask you what you can do, because the victims on the Bulgarian roads are not blue, they are not red, they are not BSP, they are not GERB, they are Bulgarian citizens, some foreign, and we are all responsible for this thing. Since the topic in this National Assembly is no longer being dealt with for a year and a half, therefore a request to you I cannot give you advice, put it more responsible in the functions you have as Deputy Prime Minister, as a minister and as a member of the Executive Commission of GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u401	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. We are moving on to a question from the MP Yavor Haytov regarding preparation of investigative officers. You have the floor, Mr. Haytov, for the development of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Dear Minister, Bulgaria is, in my opinion, not yet a full member of the European Union, and that is because our judicial system has been under monitoring for ten years by our partners in the European Union. But the Ministry of Interior is also under monitoring because more than 95% of criminal cases in pre-trial cases are examined and investigated by the employees of the Ministry of Interior, namely by investigative police. On this occasion, I ask you to answer: what is the level of preparation of investigative police officers, what percentage of cases are returned from the prosecution for investigation, are the deadlines set out in the Criminal Procedure Code for Investigation and what is the way or methodology for the distribution of pre-trial proceedings between investigative police officers and is there the so-called "successful principle of distribution' and, if you are prepared and able to respond, what is the workload of investigative officers?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u403	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u404	Dear Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Glauchev! One clarification: the monitoring of the Ministry of Interior under the mechanism is mainly on the topic of combating organised crime and the latest reports are extremely positive, perhaps the only positive assessments given to the missions are on this line. By this I do not want to say that the problems with the investigation are solved, the training of investigative police officers, which stem mainly from the fact that there is a great turnover in this position. There is also some duality in their status, but each one of those who take this position has the opportunity, after passing the appropriate course, to move on to a higher level and to work in the prosecution. That's a problem. Obviously, the position that is currently is not attractive enough for good specialists. We are aware of this problem. He's current and replicating, so he has an investigative officer training program. I can give you the reference. There is an annual plan of this Programme, it is clear how it is located in time with regard to the possibilities for its implementation. There are also joint trainings with representatives of other partner services. I'll introduce her to you. As for the temporaryity of the investigation and the workload. According to the instructions for the exchange of information between the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office of the Movement, the completion and results of the cases investigated in the Ministry of Interior, monthly monitoring is carried out for the work and workload of the investigating authorities in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. The summary data shall be provided annually at both six months and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for inclusion in the report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigative bodies. We are reading positive results in increasing the time frame of the investigation, which is due to the good interaction between investigating police officers and prosecutors. The last year, this is a fact that is recognised by both parties, and I think the results of the investigation prove it, too. The provisional data of the investigation in 2015, with the exception of pre-trial proceedings conducted by DGBOP and DGDP, are as follows. A total of 135 999 pre-trial proceedings were completed within the legal period. Of these 10 755 are completed as quick proceedings, within seven days 9950 are completed, up to 14 days 805. There are no completed rapid proceedings outside the legal deadline, a total of 1436 rapid proceedings have been converted into pre-trial procedures in the general order. One thousand eight hundred forty-three are completed as immediate proceedings. Within three days 1786 are completed and up to eight days " 57." No immediate proceedings concluded outside the legal deadline shall be observed. One hundred and forty-one immediate proceedings have been converted into pre-trial procedures in general order. In total, 136 002 pre-trial proceedings were sent to the prosecution in 2015. Of these, 39,721 are closed with an indictment opinion, 32 thousand with an opinion on the termination of criminal proceedings and 64, 267 with an opinion on the suspension of criminal proceedings. In 2015, the number of pre-trial proceedings returned by the court and prosecution of investigative officers was 3893 or 2.9% of the total number of pre-trial proceedings. The average workload of investigative police officers in the middle on an annual basis is 100,29 pre-trial proceedings. The methodology for the distribution of pre-trial proceedings has been set up an organisation where they are allocated by the Head of the Department of Investigation and the Chief Investigative Officer in the department, which is according to the workload, duty of investigative police officers, as well as the number and specifics of the crimes they investigate. In the individual areas of management, pre-trial proceedings shall be distributed by orders of the Director of the ODMHR in charge of the investigation following their initiation. In the major regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior an organization was established in cases of pre-trial proceedings initiated for serious crimes to be awarded to employees with the most experience. As regards the work of investigative police officers at DGBOC, they shall carry out their activities in criminal investigations within the pre-trial proceedings entrusted by the special prosecutor's office and established on materials by the DGBOC with the subject of criminal offences listed in art. 39, para. 1, t. 1.12 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Ninety-seven percent of investigative police officers hold a Master's degree in Law and have considerable experience. No delay in pre-trial proceedings shall be reported. For last 2015 in 7% of the closed pre-trial proceedings, extenuating infringements of procedural rights have been allowed. For the first six months of 2016, no one has been returned. The average workload of investigative officers is six pre-trial proceedings. I can also say that for the Directorate-General of Border Police the average workload of investigative officers is 74 pre-trial proceedings. In addition, I can say that the analysis shows that the fight against corruption increases extremely much pre-trial proceedings, the cases that are being brought. I think that on this line, which is given priority to the Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, we also have good results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u405	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. I've left a lot of time behind, but I'm asking the MPs to consider when they ask how long it takes to answer that question. There have been many questions, and that is why, Mr. Haytov, I hope you are pleased that you have been answered in full.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u406	Not only the honourable Mr. Chairman, I am pleased, but I really thank you, because at first glance Minister Bachvarova exported dry numbers, but behind them lies a huge volume of labor. In fact, the work of investigative police officers is an emancipation of the labour of operatives on the criminal line, on the economic line. If investigative officers fail with the means of the Code of Criminal Procedure to prove a criminal conduct, then neither can a fit indictment be written, nor can a perpetrator of a crime be convicted, and here we are forced to comment that the Ministry has shortcomings in its activities that it is not coping. Minister, in February of this year we were together on the annual reports and analyses of numerous regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the main directorates of the Ministry. Day by day, the end of the calendar year is coming, and perhaps very soon the time will come again for the annual reports. I'm really keeping those numbers. They mostly match what you brought out. But I would like to assure you that 100 pre-trial proceedings of an investigative officer in one year are extremely many. This affects quality and timing. For my part, I would like to draw your attention to you, and you can also do so that you can verify what I say that an investigator is charged with only two, three, a maximum of five cases on an annual basis. It's a terrifying disproportion, in my opinion. It affects the overall picture of effectiveness in the overall work in the pre-trial phase of the process, the criminal process. I therefore started from there that the monitoring actually concerns the Ministry of Interior and you are obliged, in view of your authority to ensure that the investigation is quality and easier to come to an indictment and hence to sentences. In some ways, to do the work of investigative police officers, be it better paid, be it through some other opportunities that career growth gives, and so on, but this is one of the main methods for dealing with the huge problem that has already happened here in this Chamber, and this is domestic crime. Yes, the Ministry gets praise for some international operations in which it participates, but I would like to hear this assessment also when we meet with voters in small towns, and there, believe me, there is really something more to be done. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I don't want to be critical just because of the criticism itself, but please also pay attention to these facts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u407	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Will you use your right to the back? No. The next question is from the MP Gunay Hewesmen on the actions of the Department of Road Police and Razgrad. Here you are, dear Mr Hughesman, so you can develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u408	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! Resident of the village of Yonkovo, Isperih Municipality, Razgrad District, met with me on my reception day very worried about the actions of the employees of your ministry in the face of the Department of Road Police in Razgrad. A fine was issued in Razgrad on 31 May 2016 with a ticket for violation of the Road Regulations of the person Avramov Avramov, under heading 0422-180, amounting to BGN 20,00. At the date of issue of the fine, Avram Avramov has not responded to that name for years because he has restored his birth name after the so-called revival process. I've applied all the documents to my questioning. In addition, the owner of Adem Ahmed's car is his son, and at the quoted time, he has power of attorney to drive the same car. Adem Ahmed was not present at the time of the fine. It therefore did not request a document certifying its identity and its right to drive the vehicle in question. The case referred to above is not the first to issue infringement documents to a person in whose identity documents There's another name on it. The case is identical in 2012, when a ticket for violation of Lyuben Emilov Kirilov was issued, which in his issued ID card is named Lutvi Ehiman Kemil. All this creates a feeling in Bulgarian Muslim citizens that the data in the DMV arrays are old, unupdated and, of course, this gap and confusion strongly offends our fellow citizens. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, the question I have asked is not related to contesting or not paying the penalty of BGN 20,00. I am addressing this question to you, as this is not the first time that a fine is imposed on a person whose main identification document has long been given his current name. In this regard, as a citizen and a Member of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: First of all, why do the DMV issue documents to pay fines to people who haven't had those names in a long time? Is this practice in the system of your trusted ministry? Secondly, what time limits will be updated in the system of the Road Police (Police) to stop the practice of issuing fines to persons who have long been under other names in their identification documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u409	Thank you, dear Mr Hughesman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u410	Dear Mr Hughesmen, the error you have made in your question about the two identical cases is the error of an employee of the Regional Directorate in Razgrad. After the inspection we have done, I can say that it should not be reported as an error in the systems of the Ministry of Interior. They are modern, contain all up-to-date data for both individuals and their cars and in the databases they also appear with the replaced names. I mean, this duality is reflected. In the reference made, the employee who failed to pay attention has dictated to the road policeman who compiled the ticket, not available data on the person who committed the infringement. There is a overlap between the names of the father and the son of Avramov and Avram Mladenov, with the previous names and this error occurs with the reference itself. Following the verification and the detected omission special instructions were issued to the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior throughout the country to pay serious attention to their employees, to give them instructions. Such discrepancies should not be allowed in the future time and with their actions Bulgarian policemen should not insult the Bulgarian citizens in any way. This is a commitment that I can make and a commitment that I hope to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u411	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr Hughesman, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u412	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I was expecting another answer, which I obviously wouldn't be pleased with, but you really impressed me with your response. I thank you for this answer, because before 1989, then, the system, totalitarian regime worked against someone. After the so-called revolution the Bulgarian Muslims and victims of the so-called revival process began to unite against someone. I see in your response a clear trend what has been said lately that the time has finally come in Bulgaria to work for man, to work for European values. I'm gonna have to ask the officer in question and whoever broke it to be sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u413	Thank you, dear Mr Hughesman. The last question is from the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and Kristian Vigenin about the construction of new refugee centers in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! We have repeatedly posed the issue of building new refugee centers. As a matter of fact, you have always been laconic, but without specifics you have answered that you are working on this issue. My specific question relates to my electoral area, rather to the following: Do the rumors and allegations that in the village of Boyanovo, the municipality of Elhovo, Yambol region of the territory of the former military unit have started building a new refugee centre? If this is true, we ask you to explain by what decision and on what basis is this locality chosen? I ask this question, not to provoke the fears of the residents of the village of Boyanovo and of the municipality of Elhov. They are already there, especially after today's protests against refugees. It's a much more serious matter. It concerns the country as a whole, national security and it must be dealt with really responsibly and seriously. At least such a tone we set as an opposition parliamentary group at the beginning of this National Assembly. I would just like to remind you that a closed-ended reception centre was established on the territory of the same municipality in 2013 and, thank God, so far, thanks to the energetic efforts of both Border Police and the State Agency for Refugees, no accident has occurred. However, at the same time, I would like to emphasise that when building this refugee centre, the representatives of the central executive then had an active dialogue with the representatives of the local authorities. To date, I am not aware that I, as well as the population, have had similar talks with representatives of the population of the municipality of Elhovo, including the mayor of the village. Typically, in such situations, reasonable, responsible, appropriate commitments are made to compensate for the already scarce existence of people at this end. At least that's how it was at the beginning of 2013. I ask for your answer as people are really afraid. There's all kinds of rumors going around. The territory, the area, is exposed to raids of the passing groups of refugees, there passes a very busy transport corridor from Lesovo, so this further makes the situation nervous, and adding the difficulties that the Regional Police Directorate is experiencing from lack of people, from continuous financial deprivation, the case is indeed extremely serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u415	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u416	Dear Mr. Merdjanov, I see that Mr. Vigenin is part of this matter. The news for you is that yesterday there was a meeting in Elhovo with the governor of the district, with the mayor of Boyanovo and Elhovo, and the decision was presented, which was taken by the Council of Ministers on Wednesday and explained to the residents what the plans are for, what the site will be prepared for. I have information because I was informed by the people who were involved, so we took care of it as soon as the decision was made to inform the citizens there. You said yourself that building closed-ended centers, especially like the one in Elhovo, is a good practice started by your government. I can say quite responsibly that this policy, which your government has conducted on the construction of the centres, on the construction of the partition facility, is a good policy. We're taking advantage of her right now, and I honestly don't see any reason why you should deny her by criticizing us for doing the same things. I see how you have prepared yourself for a very large wave for 14 thousand people in other centers and I think this is the responsible position of every Bulgarian government to be ready to react in every possible situation. That is what you have done, and that is what we are doing, and I think we should have a common understanding of this, because the threat concerns all our citizens. Our approach to the construction of additional sites to unfold temporary facilities, temporary accommodation centres, and not permanent, should make sense that we should be prepared for unexpected, impulsive developments in the situation of migratory waves to be able to react. We have set out in our plan, which was adopted more than half a year ago, to respond to an emergency situation and increase migratory pressure an estimated need to build three such sites... If you want, I can not answer to you until the end, because you are not listening to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u417	We're listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u418	And the fact is that we have approved funding for the preparation of these sites, as well as for 500 wagons, by the European Commission within the framework of the funds that have been allocated and proves their eligibility. By a decision of the government on Wednesday from the Ministry of Defence, ownership was transferred to the district governor, the aim being to prepare this place with the relevant infrastructure and to be able to place the relevant wagons, if necessary. Those wagons will be owned by the Criminal Protection Service, which means that they can be used in other situations as some of the seconded personnel in these places, if there are no refugees, may be accommodated in the same way. The construction of these facilities is entirely in the interest of citizens' security. They will be of the closed type, i.e. with extremely guaranteed security, we provide additional numbers to the directorates so that they can prepare and implement this security. I think this will help us create a good order that will not allow what you have mentioned, too, a promiscuous passage of illegal migrants on the territory of the country. These are our efforts, and I sincerely hope that we do not have to use these places, and that we manage to master the migration wave even better, but it would be irresponsible not to be prepared to welcome it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u419	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. For a replica.. the People's Representative Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I'm trying to contain my emotions because what you're saying here, Mrs. Bachvarova, a part of it must be very nice, but I don't see any connection with the real problems that are in place. You explain how you will not pass free people through these areas by making these centers. No! No free people will pass if you take measures and the border is taken seriously, and people do not pass from there. One of my supplementary questions is related to this. After all, our main task, as a country, is that we do not allow refugees and economic immigrants from countries that are the main source of such immigrants to enter mass. In this regard, the passive policy that is advertised here for me is absolutely unacceptable. What further do you do to ensure that measures taken to protect the border actually work? And don't talk to me here now about this notorious 160 million from the European Commission. They will come safely, we will see what and how will happen to them, there are already new measures on the border, there is support from European countries. What your data is, does this give any result really or statistics as we look at them will show that nothing happens in practice because the problem is not the protection of the border, but the trafficking schemes, which are obviously being patronized by certain environments in the ministry you run. And the second question, we want to see a solid policy. People worry, among other things, that they don't see in your face, as a minister and deputy prime minister, some systematic strategy for what we do with this problem. On 13 September, you say: "Five-six places for a new center are looking up; on 28 September you say: "No new centers will be revealed; on 6 October you say: "More closed-type centres will be revealed." So, one day, another day, another day. This is very characteristic of your government, but on this topic people are really worried, fears are being created, not even so much of the real problems at the moment, but because they don't know what's coming tomorrow, is there a serious person in this ministry, and I would say at the prime minister's post that can give them some security and know that there's a pilot on the plane after all. I am part of this issue because I have represented these people in a previous Chamber of the National Assembly and we will monitor really very carefully what and how it happens, because this secrecy in which you are actually doing it... Here I can share that there was also a recommendation to the mayor of the village of Boyanovo, and to the local authorities at all, not to give voice to these preparations and meetings. I do not know how many and what meetings there were, but we still need to, as a recommendation, when such things are done, to talk to the population, to convince people that there is really nothing worrying, not to do behind their backs and finally the local authorities to take the negatives of the decisions that are made somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u421	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You're betting too much on the pilots. There are other professions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u422	Mr. Vigenin, you are the only one who does not see what the Bulgarian government is doing. You were a foreign minister. You know how things look. I can tell you that one who is objective sees them differently, beyond what you see them in. Secretity, fears, and uncertainty are what you're doing because it's your campaign's anchoring point. You are not honored because you disprove international and European decisions and policies. You're not honored by this point of support! That's all I can say. It's what we do. All the facilities you built were in complete secrecy. I'm now saying it's good, because it really has a good result of them. But who knew about 14 centers for 14 grand in Telish? Now you understand how many years after you proposed it? [[Replyes "Not true" by BSP LB.]] How is that not true?! They won't, they don't know. [[Extreme lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u423	Please, please, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u424	We have not hidden anything from the Bulgarian public. You talk about statistics, but if you follow the statistics, the last days on the Bulgarian border have single numbers that are retained and which are entering. I'll say again: we must be prepared for another situation. You're saying no one knows what it's like, obviously no one reads plans or strategies. Since June, we have two plans for an emergency situation on which we are also acting at the moment for the Bulgarian-Greek border and for the Bulgarian Turkish border. There is nothing hidden in this because we announced them when we did training exercises at the border along with the military. Just because you missed them, it's your problem, doesn't mean you can generalize it that way. Tell people what's next?! What we can tell them is that we are doing everything we can to prevent them from being risked both by the organisation of the migratory flow and by the political measures. What you tell them, however, is that everything is very scary and has no control. You're fooling them. I'll say it again: it doesn't do you any good to say it! Bulgaria is set as a good example of an organization. My contacts with colleagues from other countries are about sharing experience on the organisation of border work, because there is no country at the moment on the first line, which in such a good way has organised its work with migrant flows and can control them on any possible line. That's what our government does. And for the future, if we don't phantom this topic so much and if we don't speculate so much about public fears, I think we're gonna do a lot better because from now on we're getting into big politics. You should know her and know what this means: the big policy and Bulgaria's opportunities in the first line to stand up. I say again: everyone shares, there is no other country that is currently on line one doing so well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u425	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] There is a withdrawn question by the MP Dimitar Shishkov. There are no more questions for you. We are moving on to the issues of Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. It will answer a question from the National Representative Manol Genov concerning prices for delivery of food products in educational establishments in the Republic of Bulgaria under a European scheme. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u426	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is very brief. It was updated three and a half months ago. It turned out that we couldn't meet. I asked the question and you answered it. A scheme for the provision of fruits, vegetables and dairy products in educational establishments financed by the State Fund is implemented for the 2015 school year 2016. In accordance with the adopted regulation, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall coordinate the activities relating to the implementation of the schemes notified to the European Commission the national strategy, stating the means necessary for the national funding of the scheme. The established methodology includes the value of one serving per child for the entire school year, the number of students, as well as the publicity of the data. The commission of a child for the whole year is worth BGN 27. 29 p.m., as the school fruit scheme, covers nearly 482 thousand students from all over the country. My question to you, Minister, is this: what is the institution that determines the prices at which the supplies are made? Who controls their level as most of these products are seasonally priced? Is there an established mechanism for determining and controlling them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u427	Thank you, Mr. Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Taneva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u428	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order not to repeat information which, in another format, I have already given, and the citizens have already been informed, to say the new, in addition to everything that has been said on the subject so far. The school fruit scheme has been implemented since 2010 and 2011 academic year. 3800 applications from educational institutions covering 482 477 children have been received in the scheme for the current school year 2016. Yes, this scheme is from 2013, 2014 enjoys a great deal of interest and, in practice, the budget, which is from the European Union with national co-financing, is being fully implemented. Until the previous school year, this measure and this scheme, School fruit, has been applied according to a methodology that you quoted, on the principle of setting a flat rate per serving, 14 types of fruit and vegetables are included in this portion. Of course, this methodology has been notified to the European Commission and this is how the scheme was implemented until last year's school year. Following discussions with interested parties, farmers, following the dynamics of prices since the summer of this year, there has been a working group in the State Fund................................ which has developed a new methodology for determining and implementing the scheme suitable for our conditions. The payment of a portion is replaced by the payment of a kilogram of products actually delivered, with individual reimbursement rates fixed for each type of fruit and vegetables. In addition, the rate itself is divided into three types of marginal prices of the relevant delivery costs, logistics, means of transport. This new methodology is included in the National Strategy for Implementation of a scheme for provision of fruit and vegetables in educational establishments in the Republic of Bulgaria, which has been notified by the European Commission. In addition, a change in the ordinance of the Council of Ministers governing the implementation of the school fruit and school milk schemes is undertaken and, as of the following year, the regulation and conditions are united. The additional changes we have made are an advantage with which farmers and recognised producer organisations, producer groups can benefit in competition in determining the provider of educational establishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u429	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u430	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Madam Minister, when my question was asked on 30 June 2016, this was what he intended. We have found, according to your words, an extrapolation of prices due to some costs of about 1000% in some goods and vegetables, then it was not clear in the events who was responsible for the prices. Here's the proof: on December 18th, the Fund is sending new prices to school directors. [[Shows document.]] Therefore, the letter sent to these beneficiaries under the scheme last year also bears the signature of the Deputy Executive Director Dr. Vasileva. To my question: who is responsible for the prices, the answer is clear. I think we're done here. That's very nice of you. I hope it's because of the noise we made because governments change and children's food is stolen. There were answers that it was like this at Oresharski's, so it was-when. I asked: who was the Minister of Agriculture in 2010 when these prices still existed at the beginning of the programme? Some tried to blame Mrs. Maslarova in the debates that arose. It is very good that you have improved the methodology for calculating the marginal price of production per serving. It has been secured with information the very activity of forming marginal prices, you collect from four sources information, you distribute them percentagely as a burden, you also set clear criteria for the logistics allowance, 10% profit rate, 3% transport allowance. It is also logical to have an update of prices due to the seasonality of certain goods. Where's the worry coming from? Again a loophole is given and an opportunity to replace the original with the fake. Nowhere is the quality of production at stake in your methodology. There are apples first quality, second quality, third quality. There are also first quality tomatoes, second quality, third quality. Besides, there's a great deal of concern about what you said as an asset. Yesterday the Agricultural Commission had a meeting with representatives of branch organizations. Their concern is that now, with the introduction into art. 13, p. 4 of this regulation will greatly narrow the range of suppliers under these schemes. And instead of you, aiming to have more competition, you could end up monopolising. It's a good thing prices aren't what they used to be. And I hope that the money saved really will be used for other schemes under both objectives "national co-financing and European money." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u431	Thank you, Mr. Genov. A hole? You don't want to. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova and Mr. Dobryn Danev on the financial situation of the Executive Agency. Mr. Danev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our question with the colleague Bachvarova was asked in early July, because at this moment a lot of unfavorable natural phenomena occurred on the territory of the country. Gradushka, storms and similar damage to farmers. However, I believe that the issue is also up to date today, as this was repeated in September, especially in the period when small and medium-sized farmers were harvesting, in particular they were vegetable producers, fruit trees. Therefore, the role of the Executive Agency is particularly heavy at times when for several years this lasting unfavorable climate trend has been manifesting. The questions we are going to ask you, I hope that they will really be useful for this Agency to increase its prevention next year so that it helps farmers and the expectations they have towards it are really adequate. Therefore, my questions to you are as follows: what is the financial situation of the Agency? Have structural and personnel reforms been implemented in the past two years? Are wages provided for workers and what is the average wage level?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u433	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u434	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Danev, Dear Prof. Danev, Bachvarova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The financial situation of the Executive Agency is determined by the funds provided for in the budget to carry out the activities of city protection. An additional 104 thousand were allocated to the opening of the active urban protection season for 2016. lv. In 2016, three additional requests were made by the Agency to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to provide additional targeted funds for the purchase of anti-urban missiles. Two of them were forwarded to the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers. The first request is for a grant of 4 million. 296 thousand. 120 leva, which are relaxed and paid for the rockets. The second demand is to buy 4,000 anti-city missiles worth 2 million. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. lv. and paid over 1 million. lv. at this request. And the third demand to buy more missiles worth 800 thousand. lv. also satisfied and the funds paid out. The purchase of such a quantity of anti-city missiles, which is the largest in recent years, is required by the high power and intensity of urban processes in 2016. 219 impacts have been made by launching 9886 rockets to 190 clouds. The territory protected by the Executive Agency is preserved and 17 million. Decare, of which 10.6 million decares are arable agricultural areas, permanent crops and mixed areas. The effects of anti-city protection are constantly increasing. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. BGN, which compared to previous years is higher. In addition, 1 BGN is added. for maintenance of the activities of the Agency current costs the economic effect is over 10 BGN. in 2016. Of course, I can give details of the activity of the years. The resources provided for for 2016 for staff, including salaries, remuneration, other payments and compulsory social contributions by the employer amount to 4 million. 914 thousand. lv. An additional 178 thousand were granted at the beginning of 2016. BGN, which increased the salaries of the staff of the Agency by up to 10% in accordance with the annual assessment of the implementation. Currently, the average wage level of employees in employment is BGN 447 and for employees in the service staff BGN 749. At the end of this year, I can say that all the necessary funds and capacity have been provided, so that the Executive Agency for Combating hails performs its functions and saves production for more than 100 million. lv. This year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u435	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer was exactly within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. For the line.. prof. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u436	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The question was answered in a comprehensive manner, but still it lacked the analysis that I lacked from the point of view that you have commitments in the following year. And this planning, which is clearly being done, is not good enough to be able to cover in time the costs necessary to carry out the work and also to stimulate the staff involved with this Agency. I have a few questions concerning precisely those employed by the Agency for the Fight against hails. In a number of 590 people approximately, in relation to the Rules of Procedure, those working on the sites are most often two people who have to provide 24-hour duty on these sites and they have an average salary around the minimum wage of BGN 447. Another question is why there is also a service relationship with such a huge difference in wages, provided that we are still talking about a common activity and there must be a level playing field. That's the first question. You need three people each, you have two, how you are doing and how do you intend to solve this issue, which is not from now on, I think it is from last year, in terms of the difference between an establishment schedule and a necessary number? And since, during the time we talked about fighting hails, your concept of changing this structure came up and came up, with its transformation into a state enterprise, do you believe that such a reform would lead to an improvement of this service, provided that all the burden is transferred to farmers in order to ensure precisely that protection and not to insurers? Of course, this is a matter outside of the question, but I think that in a few words you can also clarify this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u437	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u438	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova! I think the main question for us as, of course, both ruling and opposition is the second question, the last one you asked, because it means a concept for the functioning of anti-urban protection in Bulgaria. With one sentence to answer the first part of the question. For the next year, with the budget that we have requested and anticipated, three people will be provided on active missile sites. I hope, of course, that, during the course of the budgetary procedure, we will receive support for the proposals that we have made in relation to budgeting the Agency's maintenance already with the adoption of the budget and not with additional requests for missiles. The main thing, however, is the concept that we had presented. Thank you for the question, in order to be able to say that we started the construction of this enterprise, as soon as next year will be put into operation new 32 missile sites, and I can tell you where they are planned and where they started their construction procedures within the required time frame: in the area between Karlovo and Muglige 24 pcs, on the territory of the Regional Directorate of Gradushka, Vratsa, and Pleven Regional Directorate by one number, on the territory of the City Directorate. In addition, they are in procedural readiness to launch procedures to purchase the necessary equipment for the structuring of anti-city protection enterprises: three sets of radio electronic equipment, Doppler digital weather radar stations, 79 sets of automated launches for anti-city missiles, the supply of 32 sets of power supply systems to provide autonomous power supply, that is to say, all of this is public and you will be able to get acquainted with it, with our plan being built by the end of 2017, after which this service will be able to be provided in a comprehensive form for farmers, and to operate this model. I just want to add, with an apology for the time, if you can take it away from me from the next time for answers to questions, such a model works in almost all European countries, and there these enterprises are joint between the associations of farmers and local authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u439	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There is no opportunity to take away your time from the answer to the next question, but I have left you calmly to answer, because this is extremely important for farmers whose work we are obliged to respect. Let's get to the next question. He is one of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the implementation of sub-measure 7.6 of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the reception under sub-measure 7.6 has been completed, namely research and investment related to the maintenance, restoration and improvement of the cultural and natural heritage of the villages. According to the published information, the total number of projects submitted is 348 to a total of 210 million. lv. After talks with beneficiaries on this measure, they rightly shared with us that their concerns regarding the ranking and approval of projects are that the leading criteria for ranking too restrict the likely approved beneficiaries and projects. It is said that one of these criteria, for example, is the site to be a national cultural monument, which greatly narrows the possibility that many of the projects will not be approved. So perhaps the question is late and the answer will be late, but we will ask it: what is the budget for the measure for the new programming period; what will be the leading criteria for ranking projects, given the need for their ranking?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u441	Thank you, Mr. Danev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u442	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Danev, MPs! Sub-measure 7.6 - Budget for the measure over the entire programming period Seventy-eight million. 232 thousand. lv.; budget for the open admission measure, which you are quoting, 48 million Eight hundred and ninety-five thousand.; number of applications lodged 752,000. £375. In the course of subsequent examination of these 348 applications, the number of applications submitted remains 92, representing 26,44% of the total number of applications submitted, with a total amount requested for support of 60 million. 207,000. lv. All projects have been assessed, as required by Decree No 6 of 28 March 2016 on the implementation of the sub-measure 7.6 "Study and investments related to maintenance, restoration and improvement of the cultural natural heritage of the villages'. Compliance with the assessment criteria shall be assessed at the date of submission of an application for support according to the documents annexed to the application. It is important to note that the certificate issued by the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage stating that the investment site has a prior category of local importance or national importance does not receive points according to the selection criteria. Applications for support shall be classified according to the points obtained in the assessment and approved in descending order up to the amount of the budget allocated for the respective admission. The classified applications for support with the same number of points for which a partial available budget in the ranking is available shall be approved following an amendment of the budget set out in the Order of the Minister for Agriculture and Food for the respective period of admission. Each of the selected selection criteria has a significant role to play in both achieving the objectives set out in sub-measure 7.6 and in assessing the project proposals. Let me just say that these criteria are discussed in thematic working groups and we have fully complied with the proposals of the Holy Synod. The objective of Criterion 1 is to stimulate the recovery, restoration, repair or reconstruction of religiously important buildings in populated areas with a higher population, which will benefit from the investment. Points of the criterion will be provided for the number of population in the locality where the investment will be implemented. For the purpose of fair determination of the severity of the proposed criterion, the criterion is divided into several subcriteria for the formulation of which official statistics from the National Statistical Institute have been used. The maximum weight of Cryteria is 30 points. Criterion 2 - Projects involving investments according to the cultural and social importance of the site will contribute to the maximum conservation of the national cultural heritage, which has historical memory, national identity and has scientific or cultural value. For this purpose, the selection criterion will give priority to investments that include reconstruction, restoration, repair or reconstruction activities of buildings of religious importance which have acquired the status of real estate in a category of world, national or local importance under the Cultural Heritage Act. The maximum weight of the criterion is 70 points.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u443	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The People's Representative Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u444	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! What I understand from your answer, if I'm wrong, you will correct me, 48 million is the budget. Seventy-eight million to go. Will there be a reception? [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u445	Let me give you an answer in your right to the back of your jacket.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u446	The point is that you have a remainder that provides for a second intake within this period with a much smaller amount than the current one. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u447	Please, there's a protocol. Things need to be according to the rules. You'll figure it out from the stands. Proceed, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u448	As my colleague said, the criteria that have been set create problems both in terms of delivering the necessary documents, and I also think there is a very large amount of subjectiveism in ranging, about which projects remain and continue and which projects will continue to be carried out accordingly. In this regard, do you foresee in any form, however, that there will be further coordination with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church on the necessity and on what is being done in these projects? Experience from the first programming period showed how to make gardens, fences that have their place and meaning, but when the budget is limited, it is still necessary to see and work in the direction of restoration, and in the direction of creation prerequisites for this religious temple to fulfill its basic commitments for which the work is carried out. Maybe one more question. You had a problem starting the program. You had a meeting with the Bulgarian St. Synod, respectively, but we were under the impression that the issues were not cleared from the point of view of the requirements the Rural Development Programme puts in place when applying to these projects and priorities. Make priorities as real as possible to be available for implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u449	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u450	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova! There were neither difficulties nor ambiguities when the measure was launched and opened. It is simply that, as on each of the admissions, there are four times higher project readiness for projects and applications for support than the budget of the Programme has, not even for the open reception, but for the entire programming period. We, until the end of the implementation of this programme, I assure you, the first adoptions, by any investment measure, have shown this ratio. We will work under the conditions of 25 to 30% satisfaction with the project readiness. The criteria and objectives are very clear. They've been subject to public discussion and we haven't had a problem with anyone. Yes, we have proposed initial criteria that we thought were better, but we have complied with the demands that the Bulgarian Orthodox Church put. Now what happens next is the entire budget is 78 million, 48 of it has been provided. Under the rules of the Ordinance will be completed to reach the rank with minimum points. Absolutely no subjectivity. The whole Ranking is based on points and all beneficiaries know that very well. With regard to the types of activities, this process was much longer cleared, even when writing the Programme, in the Regulation. All this is agreed with the interested parties. I believe that from the mistakes of the first period we are very well taught because at the moment not only by this measure but also by another advantage is given to precisely those settlements where the investment will benefit from a larger number of citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u451	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We're moving on to two questions. They have a common answer. The first is from the MP Willy Lilkov on the burning of agricultural land and the imposed sanctions. Here you go, Professor. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The question was asked on 5 July 2016, but has not lost its actuality today, although the summer season, the active season for farmers is coming to an end. It concerns the burning of agricultural land and the penalties imposed in this regard. As the fires of plant waste and scraps have increased, my questions are as follows. First, what is the number of established fires on agricultural land in the last five years? Secondly, how many of them are identified by the direct perpetrators and culprits for their appearance? Thirdly, what is the amount of sanctions imposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u453	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. The second question is in the same spirit, so the answer is general. Svetla Bachvarova on the prevention of forest fires in 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u454	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question is related to the prevention of forest fires in 2016. According to what came out in the media, a significant increase in forest fires in the country was reported in 2016. Please compare their size compared to the previous two years. It probably has something to do with the question that Prof. Lilkov asked because again in the media came almost the information that the forest fires caused the fires on the agricultural land. Maybe so, but I think there's still a distinction between the two types of fires. What is the analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the reasons for their increase? What measures will be taken to minimise them next year, as losses are not only for the forest sector, but also for society as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u455	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u456	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Lilkov, Honorable Prof. Lilkov. Bachvarova! In 2016, 527 fires occurred. Only 4% are due to natural causes of lightning; 6% are intentional; 73% of human negligence and 17% for unknown reasons. The most affected by fires are forest areas in the districts of Haskovo, Stara Zagora, Burgas, Kardzhali, Lovech, Varna, Yambol and Sliven. For the period 2005 - 2015 the average annual values for the burned areas in the country were 110 thousand. Decare at an average number of fires 550. I would like to make it clear that the 2016 data shows twice as small as the volume of decares affected by fires and an average as the number of fires occurring. Currently, the number of fires in 2016 is 527 with burning territory 61 thousand. 417 decares, i.e. the affected territory is 44% less than the annual averages over the past 10 years. This is due to both the preventive activity and the financial resources invested in recent years, both by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and by the Ministry of Interior for specialized equipment, training and creation of voluntary formations. A comprehensive analysis of the causes of the fires and the affected forest areas by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Executive Forest Agency will be carried out at the end of the year. Regarding the doubts that Prof. Lilkov quotes the occurrence of fires, currently there is a working group with three working proposals on the reason, if it is from fires in agricultural territories for additional prevention measures that will be included in the amendment of existing regulations. In accordance with art. 6, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land is prohibited the burning of grates and other plant residues in the agricultural land. On the basis of art. 41a of the same Law is punished with a fine from 1500 to 6000 BGN. the operator of agricultural land on which the incineration of scraps and other plant waste has been carried out. The acts of the persons responsible for the infringement shall be sent to the State Fund for the sanctioning of infringements of National Standard 2.2, which in 2015 was amended to National Standard 6 of the conditions for maintaining the land in good agricultural and environmental condition. In case of repeated infringement, the penalty is from 2000 to 12 000 BGN. The punishment is also imposed on a person who has violated the ban on the burning of scraps and other plant waste. The verified applicants and farmers for compliance with the standard for the last three years are over 3000 copies, with applicants with established non-compliance with this standard ranging from 40 to 18 pieces during each year. The amount of penalties collected amounts to more than 130 thousand. lv. As you are aware, the persons concerned who have been sanctioned are excluded from the area support schemes. With the provision of art. 44 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, the powers on the exercise of control in compliance with the ban on the burning of scraps and other plant waste are conferred on the mayors of municipalities. The alleged infringements shall be established by an act of officials appointed by the mayor of the municipality. The penalty order shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality or by an authorised person and the fines and property penalties on criminal decrees shall be entered into the municipal budget. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property is stated that the mayors of municipalities organize, manage and control the conservation of agricultural property in the territory of the municipality. According to information from the Regional Agriculture Directorates, incinerated areas were registered on the territory of the country, burned areas of agricultural land, burning of arable land, burning of lawns, and other totaling 139 thousand. Decare for 2015 and 194 thousand. Decare for 2016 By my order of 1 September 2016, a working group has been set up to prepare and provide projects to amend the laws on ownership and use of agricultural land, on the conservation of agricultural land and other regulations in order to update administrative procedures for action in the event of established fires. There are already draft proposals drawn up that will find a place in regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u457	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line is prof. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. I'll get to know him carefully when it's published, and I'll do an analysis. But from first reading, as they say, at 200,000. Dekar burned agricultural areas and 550 fires seem to me to say in advance that only 130 thousand. lv. a fine is very low at the existing amount of fines that the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land provides. I am worried about the high rate of negligence fires, because that means that agricultural land is quite incompetently processed. I will ask a second question, perhaps, when I get to know the data in more detail, but the good thing about this case is that the burned areas in the last year have decreased twice, although with seven fires typical in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u459	Second line.....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u460	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The information was really very detailed. The necessary analysis of what you read as data. With regard to forest areas and fires, what I have read in the media as information from those competent in this area: fires have covered over 85 thousand. You said 61,000. You need to see exactly where this gap occurs, because I am talking about competent individuals who have taken account of the subject and are not free writings. Besides, I have a question about prevention again, the issue is prevention, though. I have reviewed the indicative timetable of the Rural Development Programme for 2017. There you have measures....................................... that are related to the construction of fire towers, which at all create prerequisites to make an investment that will minimize at least somewhat the possibility of these fires being a fact. But I didn't see in this indicative reception schedule for 2017 and this is a serious concern. And maybe a little side question. You said you had an organization and volunteer groups involved in fire extinguishing. Who co-ordinates these groups, the subordination and coordination of such a disaster, how does it work? Who is the leader of the forest farms, are they state-owned enterprises? [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] My request is that you answer me because I was under the impression that there was a mix in the commands, at least when the media was giving the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u461	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I see you're ready to make further clarification in the form of a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u462	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, quite accurate data on the range of the burnt forest vegetation 1 January 2016 - 20 October 2016: 61 thousand. 417 decares, of which the coniferous " 9167 decares," or 14.9%; deciduous forest " 40 thousand." 460 decares, or 65,8%; mixed forest - 2294 decares, or 3,7%; grasses and unforested areas - 9496 decares, or 15.4%. Of all these fires, high fire is only on 7154 acres, which will require afforestation events. Everything else has a three-year term under the law in which it will be restored. With regard to coordination, I do not know what impression the media has given, but I can say, as well as express gratitude to the Fire Department, under whose direction the Directorate General, together with the forestry companies, reacted instantly and to a very strict organization, many volunteers from the local population, from the local authorities where the fires occurred, this was being handled. Statistics with regard to affected decks.. despite this number of fires, we have nearly twice less affected decks than in previous years... is due to many measures that we took, including phone 112, which works with regard to notification of such fires, faster reaching the site of the fire. In this sense, we can say that the indicators are improving, and this year, in terms of such data, they are really good. About your question about the Rural Development Programme. Yes, we have published on our website the indicative timetable for 2017. Yes, the program has a principle for building such fire towers. I can say that for these two years of term we have found 12 such towers under the Programme or restored, no matter.Cultures, which, of course, are also part of the measures where the damage from fires is significantly smaller than the average ones. In this indicative timetable, in order to include the so-called "gorgeous measures', they must be notified by the European Commission after their specific signature. Obviously you don't have that information or you just haven't met her. Such a notification, which will include the signing of the so-called forest measures and we plan for the beginning of next year, together with other changes that we have communicated with the industry, following an analysis of the first accepted investment measures, as we have done with 4.1. Just to add, returning to the previous question, to 7.6, our approach will be exactly the same. Once the applications are approved, I repeat, it will have 25% satisfaction, as any measure until the moment we have opened. With stakeholders, we will analyse the impact of the criteria, proposals for changes, and after notification we will release the residual budgets for the measures concerned. The approach for forest measures simply starts from the beginning with their specific signature and inclusion in the 2017 notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u463	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are going to ask the National Representative Ivan Stankov about the government's policy to increase the number of animals in Bulgaria, providing sufficient products of animal origin to meet the needs of the internal market and export. Within three minutes to develop your question. The answer to the question is in five minutes, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u464	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Professor Bachvarova! We're the only ones left! My question is quite well-meaning, with great concern, as a specialist who worked for 43 years in the field of livestock farming. I would also like to clarify that the compositions I make are not just from the beginning of your term as Minister of Agriculture and Food, but from the beginning of the transition. So: During the years of transition, the number of animals from different species in Bulgaria has been reduced from three to eight times. In global farming practice, agricultural animals are calculated as the number of livestock units per 100 hectares of agricultural area. In 2014, the number of animal units in the country was 22 for the area indicated, with an average of 74.7 animal units for the European Union, 86.3 for the old countries of the European Union, for the 15 countries, and 46 for those later entering the European Union. According to this indicator Bulgaria is last and there is no analogue even among the weakest European countries. And this is in a country with a natural natural resource available from meadows, pastures, also good cereal production. We have a record achievement in 2016 to ensure the bread balance, the feeding of people and several times the number of animals. As a result of the cultivation of a much smaller number of animals than the one needed and possible for the country, in 2014, we produced only 28 kilograms of meat per capita. At the same time, an average of 56.6 kg was consumed, which means that we have imported 28.6 pounds from the outside at a meal rate of 82 pounds or we have not provided our normal diet. The sad conclusion is that despite the available natural resources and the traditions of the Bulgarian country for animal farming during the millennium history, we are last in number of animals per 100 hectares of land. My question to you, rather asking, is: what will be the policy of the Bulgarian government and respectively of the Ministry of Agriculture and what measures will be taken to increase the number of animals and the appropriate use of natural resources in the country in order to meet the needs of Bulgarian citizens of animal products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u465	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Taneva. Before that, honourable Members, I inform you that in connection with the information issue of the Bulgarian National Television and concluded agreement between the Bulgarian National Television and the political parties for coverage of the election competition at the request of the Director General of BNT after 18:00 the parliamentary control will be broadcast on BNT 2. Come in for an answer to the question, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u466	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Stankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the analysis you presented, of course, I can agree with the figures you presented, we can also say the years and the time in which the drastic reduction of the size in Bulgaria is taking place is the moment when the form of agricultural activity in Bulgaria is liquidated by 1989, namely in the liquidation of the labour cooperative farms or the TTZs. From then on, in the years of transition, of course, in each of the sectors prior to our accession to the European Union, each of the sectors has developed in a way that has not had any targeted policy and everyone has maintained volumes that, on a purely entrepreneurial principle, people who have worked them have managed to keep them. Our entry into the European Union in 2007 and the negotiation of how agriculture is supported, of course, gives a certain direction to agriculture. The way the support was agreed, with the total budget being allocated per hectare of arable area, gives the greatest incentive for the development of grain production in Bulgaria. These facts can also be reported with figures, including reaching the historical record yield this year in Bulgaria, influenced by the appropriate agrometeorological conditions. This way of assistance further hinders the development or more precisely the restoration of the business sector in Bulgaria. The positive changes come with the reform of the common agricultural policy and the new programming period 2014-2020. In this programming period 13% of the total package for direct payments, which is now an annual average of around 800 million by 2020. EUR, may be provided for the so-called............................................................................................. In 2014 Bulgaria chooses to be the sector of fruit and vegetables. On 31 July 2014, the first notification of the tied support schemes was sent and for the first time in the business sector Although we have in practice only two years since the implementation of this instrument, we can take into account its high level of influence on the directions of development of Bulgarian agriculture. What do I mean? I will quote several figures: an increase in farms where more than 100 animals are kept. According to their species, it ranges from 11.4% in sheep mothers to 33.2% in goats mothers, a positive change in the average number of animals on a farm, a 28% increase in the average number of cows on a cow holding, a 26.6% increase compared to 2014 in sheep farms and goat farms. For the period 2011 to 2015, the number of farms and animals under selective control of commercial breeds is constantly increasing. Here the increase is the greatest: 54% of cattle, 117% in buffalo farming, 42% in sheep farming and 110% in goat farming. And since we are starting to pay off the tied support on Monday, cattle farmers will receive 70% of the rates of tied support on their accounts, those who are authorised by animals. In the schemes notified by the notification of 31 July 2014, there was no forecast such increase in selection animals, which is why this year, when they will receive the rates, those under selective control, the unit rate will be lower than last year, and those not under selective control, for example, in the milk direction, where only from last year's directions we have a 5% reduction in the number of animals claimed for support, will receive a slight increase. All these trends have been taken into account in changing the tied support that was possible this year and which has been sent for notification to the European Commission. The following year, from 2017, we have made an approach to account for variable costs for animal breeds by trying to reach 25% of the variable costs, differences in the differences in variable costs of animal species, and this will be taken into account in receiving the support after notification of the changes that we have made this year. I'll continue in line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u467	Madam Minister, your answers are so comprehensive and so interesting, but I ask you to comply with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Come in for two supplementary questions, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u468	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary. They excite Bulgarian citizens. They're placed everywhere. From the scientific community we are constantly talking about what Bulgaria had, what potential it has. And I, when I ask this question, it is a global issue, a policy issue of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of the Bulgarian Government, we are indeed at the last place and we must do everything we need to increase, use our natural resources. For dairy farming, it is clear that the competition is high. But where's the reserve? We see the reserve in meat breeding and the effective use of our pasture areas at our disposal. For the non-living, this overproduction of grain that we have, rather than going to the external market, it can be used in the country to raise pigs and birds, as many other countries do. In relation to what we have spoken with you, my additional questions are: how do we use pastures for the cultivation of ruminants? We've worked very hard with you on this. Are they charged by the established regulations and are they used for their intended purpose because people's anxiety is that much of the pastures are broken? Are we going to take any measures to see who changed their purpose? What measures will the Ministry of Agriculture take, respectively, for the so-called "ineligible pasture areas'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u469	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u470	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov! Since in the first part of the question I have not had the time, the second main policy pursued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is the management of permanent grasslands as a fund for the benefit of the people responsible for changes that we have been making since the first year of our mandate. As a matter of fact, I should point out that this is done by consensus of all the political groups in the Agricultural Commission and in Parliament afterwards. We can still work here and there's still a resource here. Firstly, we have made a change to the distribution by the local authorities. We should be aware that the main fund is municipal. The State has 17% of the entire Fund over 11 million. Dekara permanent grasslands. One and a half million is private, the rest is municipal. With municipalities, through the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, of course, we communicate how these procedures can be aligned as a practice and benefit farmers. Moreover, with the changes of this year, summer, we have also increased the distribution rate of permanent grassland to an animal unit. I can give you a few numbers that I'm sure you'll be interested in, uh, grass stocking. In the case of sheep and goat farms in the category from zero to 49 numbers including sheep, the grass stockage for the 2016 campaign is 0.88 hectares per animal unit; in the category from 50 to 100 animals......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In cattle and buffalo farms, the stock is 0,45 hectares per animal unit; from 21 to 200 units including The second principle change that you have made with regard to the non-assisted permanent grasslands, not one, but for two years now, is the grace period not to pay rent to the public property concerned either state or municipality. If these areas, which are in the ineligible layer, are allocated to livestock farmers, do not pay that rent until they are eligible for support, the total number of permanent grassland declared is slightly above 4 million. Dekara. That is, we have a resource that can be used for livestock farmers, and, of course, with the effort to bring it in eligible for support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u471	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stankov, come in for treatment. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u472	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister. I'm in the course of things, and I know the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is making the most of it. I am also taking this opportunity to express my fellow Members' opinion and congratulate you on the record production of grain during the year for your ability to control the severe lumpy skin disease. I would also like to congratulate you in particular on the wonderful initiative in support of Bulgarian production. These are all good things, but the problem is the problem. In Bulgaria, animals are insufficient and we must have real visions of what we will do so as to make the most of our natural resources available. Our concern is very great because we're comparing the numbers. The numbers are scary. In 2014, we have 2 million 743 thousand cloven-hoofed animals. I mean cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and pigs. And at the beginning of the transition, when the figure wasn't one of the best, we had 17 million 325 thousand, which means they were liquidated during this transition period, I agree, right at the beginning, when the liquidation councils were, 14 million 582,000. That's a very, very disturbing number. These are disturbing numbers. What I want us to do together, together, is to have a discussion, a round table on these issues and look for solutions. I think that through a strategy we can find a better solution to these big and serious problems for Bulgaria and provide Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u473	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. We move on to the next two questions. They are united and are from the National Representative Prof. Svetla Bachvarova. One is on changes in tied support schemes for farmers and the other is on changes in tied support in the business sector. You have the floor, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u474	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The first question was asked on 19 July, that is, a period when Bulgaria had not yet received a notification and had not submitted to the European Commission a notification of the change in the tied support. I have personally come to know the proposed changes on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and I expected, however, that the Committee on Agriculture and Food should also present this information and discuss the changes that are being proposed. Therefore, this question of mine relates to the idea of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for changes in tied support, given the possibility of this happening precisely in 2016. However, since this is already a fact to save time and not to go into details that do not make sense and comment, provided that they apply, my question of September 15 is related to changes in the committed support in the business sector. First, what is envisaged with regard to the registration of establishments or the re-certification required, and secondly, with the new requirements for animal support under selection control in 2017. After the answer maybe I'll be a little more specific about the comment, because there is a problem. This problem, if resolved in the way the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has proposed the notification, seems to me to be a mistake in the tied support and the policy that is being applied in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u475	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u476	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, as regards your first question, according to § 1, item 1. 36 of the Additional Provisions of the Veterinary Activity Act, establishments are defined as a place where animals are temporarily or permanently kept or accommodated. All establishments where identified and unidentifiable animals, bees, birds and others are kept are subject to registration. The registration of establishments and the procedure for their registration are laid down in the Veterinary Activity Act. In accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 6 of 8 October 2013 on the requirements for the means of official identification of animals and their use, the conditions, procedures and controls for the collection, introduction, maintenance and use of information under the integrated information system, all establishments in which temporarily or permanently resident animals with the exception of non-commercial pet animals which are subject to entry into the integrated information system have been identified. For the purposes of coupled support, no explicit requirement has been introduced with regard to the registration of establishments and is not as a condition under any scheme. It was neither sent for notification nor published nor debated in the course of public consultation with the industry. Support is based on holdings which include all establishments of farmers, as so far, where animals are kept, regardless of the basis on which they are registered under the Veterinary Activity Act. In this respect, the conditions remain exactly the same. With regard to the new requirements for animal support, as I will not have enough time, we have all announced them for public discussion. They're on the site. If I read them, it'll only take time. That's what farmers and livestock farmers know. I'm going to say a few principles in approach. With regard to relative fairness to variable costs for each category of animals, the principle and approach that has been applied. Secondly, for the first time, we are introducing a modular rate of support for small and medium-sized farms where the unit rate is higher than the base rate they receive, regardless of the size. Third approach, for the first time in the livestock sector a special scheme for mountain breeding. These are the three principles on which all budgets were made. Extrapolation was made in respect of the selection flocks available to our country, rather its farmers, by 2020, according to the principles on which this is done: the estimated number of animals that can reach that no disproportion is received, as in the 2014 notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u477	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u478	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I didn't hear an answer to my question. First of all, we are talking that the registration of establishments under Regulation No 44 is now required. Every little farm has a prescription. These prescriptions must be implemented within 70 days and if they are not fulfilled, the farm is closed. These are small farms that are unable to meet these conditions, especially during the livestock crisis. You want a fertilizer site, separate partitions, you want the fence to be around the farm, not all over the farmyard and so on. Conditions shall be laid down under which small farms will disappear because they cannot meet the requirements of selection control. What is important and what you are planning to do for 2017 is that support is tied to a dedicated amount of milk based on supporting documents, most often invoices. Aren't you worried that this is an extremely serious requirement that can lead to a drastic reduction in the number of animals? Why? First, you have a scheme to reduce milk production. Financial resources are being made to reduce milk production and at the same time we want invoices for 3,000 "3600 liters." Second, the selection. As the Ministry of Agriculture currently understands selection, it is significantly different from what is maintenance of the genofund and selection, operating until 2009. You need to establish whether there is such milkiness in order to be able to bring animals under selective control and not on the basis of invoices that you will require to recognise one or another unit that enters this selection. And Deputy Minister Tsvetan Dimitrov knows the support of the gene funds, the establishment of the animals under selective control, but this is not the way in these two bumping schemes we reduce the production of milk and stimulate it with EU funds, and at the same time we want some milk from the animals. Aren't you worried that in order to reach this milkiness, dairy farmers can issue documents and insert this dry milk with which you have problems that come into Bulgaria and are used for dairy products only and only farmers to take the corresponding subsidy?! But the milk will be inserted like dry, not raw. An interesting finding. We have synthetic breeds in sheep farming that are recognized under selection. Admit a synthetic breed and into cattle breeding. This notification does not provide for such a breed. There are cross-breeds, they are under selective control, but they are synthetic as in sheep farming. There is a serious problem with notification and requirements. The consequences that you are now setting as criteria will give their results as early as next year. I assure you, 180 thousand cows will be liquidated for this reason. You said interesting data about how the number of farms increases. [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]] Yes, it's increasing, but the number of animals is not increasing. Meat animals in cattle farming are increasing. You just said that. Milk production also comes out of agrostatistics. I can make calculations, but with these requirements my deep conviction is that there will be a mistake. My request is that you discuss them and reconsider them. You have an advisory board on nipples. Perhaps the different opinions give the opportunity to work out a better policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u479	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u480	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, I'm very surprised. You're deluded at each of the points you said. I'm surprised where you get that information. Firstly, as regards the requirements for tied support schemes in livestock production, I said in response to the question: there are no new requirements imposed for registration, re-certification or anything that would question the functioning of a livestock farm. Yes, perhaps the authorities regularly set requirements, and we have an inspection by the Commission. She puts them on us and we have to answer what we've done. So we have to tell those who don't respond, what they should do. I would like to be most responsible: no new requirements have been introduced, no new rules have been introduced, no new rules have been introduced, any new legislation that leads to re-registered, registration of a new or whatever, which calls into question any livestock establishment. All requirements are as they are now and as they were with our accession to the European Union! The subject of registration or anything relating to that of any establishment shall in no way concern tied support schemes. I don't even know how you feel about that. I am convinced that there is no legal act to be found, including on the notification given to the Commission, which has something to do with a subject relating to registration or re-certification of an establishment. There is in no way any change in any legal act or condition for it. Secondly, with regard to your doubt that invoices for certain milk products should be displayed in order for an animal to enter or not enter the selection control group. The two acts have nothing to do with each other. The selection of cows or sheep shall be conducted either by breeding organisations which receive State aid for the selection and which work, by the way, this selection shall be led by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming, for example, a breed having different sizes for breeds for which there are no breeding organisations. Invoices are not required. The selection is conducted in a way that science has said, and that has nothing to do with invoices. Let's move on to the next topic. The tied support schemes are divided and the selection control schemes already include separately for milk, separately for meat, on the occasion of the difference in variable costs of one or another breed. For each of the groups, for each of the categories of animals under selective control or not, we have introduced conditions for demonstrating the commercial realization of the products On the proposal of the branch organizations for meat breeds we introduced a requirement to enter into the system of BABH of fruit and for milk breeds we introduced commercialization of milk per year, and the volume of this commercial realization we made between 50 and 60% of the average milk milk production, which gives the selection or non-selection scheme. The only exception to this condition for proving commercial realization is the autochtonic breeds. All these conditions were requested by the industry and the moment was long ago ripe that the sector should be brightened anyway. They are very, how to say, 50% of the yield that makes a cow under the selection control of milk, virtually little of half of this is included as proof of commercial realization. This is what each of the branch organizations wanted unanimously. The difference between them was how much this commercial realization could be. Undoubtedly the most industrialized farms, with the highest productive animals, wanted the norm as it is in the textbooks, those who have not fully become market-resistant, their breeds are not the least milky, required lower. We've moved on to quantities on which we've reached consensus. The proof of these quantities does not mean whether the animal will be included in the tied support scheme under selective control but means whether it will prove sales of the relevant quantity in order to obtain the premium rate of support. The highest indicative support rate is for dairy cattle under selective control, which in the range of small and medium-sized farms should reach 400 BGN. on a cow. All this will be implemented next year. In determining the size of the budgets are reflected and extrapolated the number of animals under selective control, which would reach by 2020. I hope that I have tabled an explanation so that we do not confuse the concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u481	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the financial situation of the state forest enterprises in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. You have the floor, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u482	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I hope we have an understanding on this, because I understand from the previous one that it wasn't at all the emphasis on what I asked you. Either way, my next question relates to the financial situation of state-owned forest enterprises in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food system. I would very briefly like to hear your analysis of this in 2015 on the basis of the reported results of the financial situation. Have you done a financial analysis of the realised revenue and the expenditure for the past year, respectively? If there is such an analysis, what are the conclusions on the activity of enterprises in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u483	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u484	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! In this room of almost every parliamentary control, I answer that question and I have said the numbers several times. They're public, and we'll report them again. Of course, there's something to brag about, as they say. The total revenue of the State-owned enterprises in 2015 amounted to 310 million. lv. and are 9% more than planned in the financial plans of the enterprises for 2015. Compared to 2013 and 2014, the reported revenues from the business of the enterprises increased by 14% respectively. The revenue of the enterprises for 2015 on basic activities is as follows: income from use of wood. BGN, account for 86% of the total revenue of the enterprises for 2015 and, compared to 2014, this share decreased by 1% at the expense of an increase in the share of the revenues from the other activities. This revenue is the result of an actual wood of 5 million. Cube. meters for providing wood for heating the population and for raw material of the Bulgarian processing industry, namely: through direct sale of natural persons - 750 thousand. Cube. meters, at large processing plants over 1 million. And 300,000. Cube. meters, of which 350,000. Cube. Meter through direct sales to local wood millers 1 million Cube. meters, to other suppliers of medium and small carriers and users of wood And 900,000. Cube. Meter, revenue from other forestry and hunting and forestry activities in the forests lv. with a share of 11% of total revenue; revenue from administrative and management activities BGN, with a share of 3% of total revenue; reported costs of enterprises for 2015 total 298 million. lv. With regard to 2013 and 2014, the costs were by 1 and 11%, respectively, as a result of increased volumes of forestry activities. The costs of major activities are: for administrative management.. 157 million. lv. or 53% of total costs, of which: wage costs of 7 000 and 10 staff, including 1220 workers; social and health insurance costs of 17 million. BGN, expenditure on taxes, fees, insurance, services BGN, costs for fuels, spare parts and materials 16 million BGN, cost of depreciation of fixed tangible assets owned by the enterprises lv. In comparison with 2014, the share of expenditure for administrative management activities decreased by 2.1% by increasing the cost of implementation of forestry activities. The cost of implementing forestry and hunting activities is 45 million. lv. - 16% of total expenditure. Compared to 2014 the share of these costs increased by 3%, in absolute value the increase was 13. The cost of wood extraction is 64 million. lv. or 20% of the total costs of enterprises. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the context of the restructuring plan, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. or 11% of total revenue. The total financial result of the companies in our operating activity in 2015 was positive at a rate of 12 million. BGN, which is 3.8 times the financial result planned for the year under financial plans of 3 million. 200,000. lv. For comparison, the financial result for 2015 of state-owned enterprises is more than 5 times higher than that reported for 2014. In this year, companies have contributed 50 percent of the profit to the State under the 2015 annual fiscal report, reduced by the uncovered losses over previous years of 3 million. 400,000. The total amount of funds available to each undertaking is EUR 75 million in the forest fund. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u485	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u486	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, this was read very quickly as an accounting report. This is the first time I've asked such a question in this area, and I don't know that the data is so public and that you've answered many times. My question was: was an analysis done? This analysis, from my point of view, as an economist, should have said the following: we have revenue bigger. You're right, the revenue from the businesses has been increased. But why didn't you do an analysis on how to increase the cost of external services? I say an enterprise that, out of 26 million revenues, 50% is external service costs. The Work salary fund was increased by 1 to 2% of the employees in these revenues, but the external services in all enterprises increased dramatically. Therefore, this analysis you have the directorate, perhaps you should tell you why external services are increasing, the Fund is not increasing. As far as I've heard from your answer, I may not have understood exactly 3 million is the dividend transferred by the state. There were a lot of numbers. I couldn't figure it out that fast. To ask you this question, my main goal was to point out to you that revenue is increasing in order to spend it. It's a forest, it has an economic value with an increase in logging, we're increasing revenue, but it's still an organism that needs to be restored. So don't turn state-owned enterprises into profit-hunters, after income, but at the expense of the forest. Philosophy is something changed. I'm making 100 million, I'm spending 100 million; I'm making 120 million spending, the country's total resources is getting almost nothing against 75% of the forests of state property. Do not turn them into economic entities that must necessarily pursue profit. In addition, pay attention to the foresters who work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u487	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat. You may provide the data in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u488	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, this is total manipulation you're talking about. I just want to tell you what we've turned businesses into to tell you how we found them, uncovered losses of 5 million. lv.; 12 million lv. In CCB, not fulfilling...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u489	From who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u490	Ah, by who?! Are you asking me a question? You were in charge. Twelve million leva! Separately, 6.8 million. lv. Irrigation systems without having the right to do so at all. This money, as you may imagine, has not been returned to her because they cannot return. Apart from that, 15 million. lv. taken to allocate to other payments in December 2013. This is what we found! From what we've found, not only is the profit five times more, but it is provided that the planned logging volumes are not increased. This is what I wanted to tell you and that more than 2% of administrative management activities have been reduced. So your analysis I don't know how you do it, but to do such manipulations, provided that the first year of 2015, enterprises were working for KTB 12 million. lv.; for 6.8 million lv. "Irrigation systems" and 5 million. lv. other losses on various state forestry farms (SGS). That's what this is about. Since 2015, not only is there not one lev loss, but we have covered all this and brought millions into the country that I have quoted. All exact data request them in writing, we will provide them most accurately with certified balances and reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u491	They've been published.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u492	And the employees have the highest wages in the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u493	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Hussein Hafuzov about the process of drying coniferous forests in the Rhodope Mountains, establishing the reasons and the possible forest conservation activities taken. You have the floor, Mr. Hafuzov, for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I was approached by citizens from different settlements on Rhodope Mountain, who found similar phenomena, which are observed mainly in the coniferous trees in the forest arrays of the mountain. In some of my visits I also had the opportunity to personally meet this extremely dangerous fact for our forests in the municipalities of Nedelino, Velingrad and Banite. Without being a specialist in this area, the drying of trees and the formation of disease spots in the forests can be for various reasons, the most likely is a high coroner, as a result of the unadvantaged on time lesocracies. In the case of drying in the coniferous forests, the causes of this may be damaged trees due to snowfall, snowfall, wind blowing, which have not been used in time. Thus, an outbreak of insect pests is formed, and during their untimely removal is also transferred to healthy trees, with coronal stains appearing. In this case, it is most appropriate to clean the stains as quickly as possible and to remove the wood from the forest, and in some cases to burn the work of the sick trees. If the sick trees are cut off in time, the wood can also be suitable for construction material. Let me remind you that the Bulgarian forest, Madam Minister, is life, sentiment, dignity. The topic is extremely important and concerns not only those living in these mountains, but all Bulgarian citizens concerned about the future of Bulgaria, Bulgarian nature and especially future generations. My studies and observations are in the direction that absolutely nothing of the above-mentioned standard measures is being done on this subject, but still, in order to be more responsible, precise and fair, in this regard please answer me: So far, have you received signals from citizens or employees of the Ministry about this disturbing phenomenon? What are the environmental measures taken by your Ministry and what are the results resulting from these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u495	Thank you, dear Mr. Hafuzov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u496	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hafuzov, according to data from the forest protection stations in the last two years of insect pests in the country are affected to a different extent by coniferous forests on an area of 47 thousand hectares, representing 4.7% of their total area. The main causes of the attacks are the weakening of the trees due to the small amount of precipitation during the growing period, the large density in which crops are created, the afforestation of inappropriate mestoras on dry and poor terrains. Specifically for the drying of coniferous forests in the Rhodopes, the data at the moment show that the inventory of forests of state property, suffered by an attack by coroids on the territory of the South Central State Enterprise, Smolyan, is 2 thousand hectares, and the dried wood is 250 thousand cubic meters. Most disturbing are the drying processes of coniferous plants in Kardzhali district and Smolyan district, where 83% of the areas affected by the whole enterprise are concentrated. The most effective forest protection measure to limit the development of stem pests is the logging of the trees attacked and the cleaning of the waste thereof. Other pest control measures are laying down hunting trees and peeling the bark of trees during their cocoon development. Prevention requires not to leave wood in the clearings during the summer period for more than one month. In addition to the implementation of these measures, a plan for improving the health status of coniferous crops in the region of Kardzhali District and Smolyan District has been developed and implemented, including: - carrying out constant lesopathological monitoring for the identification of the development dynamics of the Coroyad population through betting, control and reporting of 400 pheromones in the forest areas of Smolyan district and Kardzhali district; - establishment of an emergency organisation for carrying out the necessary sanitary logging and priority utilisation of drying coniferous forests, including the following actions: Limiting cuttings in coniferous crops in good health. Quick implementation of the harvested dry wood through sale by price signature of the companies carrying out the extraction. Reduction of the selling price of dry coniferous technological wood. Drying plants near settlements are provided to the root of individuals for their own use, and from 1 August 2016 the selling price of coniferous firewood for them is reduced from 3 to 1 BGN. without VAT for spatial cubic meter. So far, in this order, a total of 25,000 cubic metres has been set for sale. At present, half of the total amount of wood that has been damaged by the Coryads has been awarded for mining through contracts and with its own workers and granted to individuals. Regarding the fallen wood from the natural disaster in March 2015, 90% of the injured 1 million cubic metres were obtained and realised. According to the report of the Forest Executive Agency, the following events have also taken place: - an air battle took place on a total area of 26 116 acres against insect pests; - the reported effect is 74% to 98%. In total, 106 thousand were spent on the airline. £640.• • • • • • • • • - a land chemical and biological fight against pests and diseases in total area of 6075 acres for 53 thousand has been carried out. BGN 924.• • • • • • • - a mechanical struggle was carried out on an area of 2420 decares of a total value of 5349 BGN. and sanitary chopping area of 186 thousand. 983 acres.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u497	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Hafuzov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u498	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! What I heard was just statistics on what to do with wood, and that wasn't the accent of my question. However, let me point out that my question was that the Bulgarian forest dried up, dried up and languished, that is, we have to save it. What we do with the material is important, of course, from a commercial point of view, but first of all, we need to take care and take responsibility, because this process may be continuing right now and I have not heard any serious measures taken. This can be very easily established. Maybe tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I'll have another chance to visit the same places I visited two, three, four years ago that even five months and if the trees are there and they continue to sow disease, it means that the forest is under threat and ugliness. In any case, of course, it is very likely that all of this costs some money and that money can be generated after selling the specified material, but the forest, again I say, for us is honor, dignity, sentiment. The Bulgarian forest must be saved at any price, because the price for the life and health of the people, of a Bulgarian forest is above all, once again I say, an opportunity for our generations to receive something in inheritance. Of course, we must note that the plans are important, but the plan to save the forest, I suppose, is above all else. Dear Minister, you probably have signals from other places in the same way, but I continue mostly from the Rhodopes these signals that where similar spots have been found since months ago nothing has been done at either the location of the spots or where new spots will probably occur at the moment after the winter period. We are approaching such a period when this threat can grow into a much larger, much more threatening form. I'm asking you to take action, because what I've heard doesn't comfort me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u499	Thank you, dear Mr. Hafuzov. Madam Minister, you will not use a line. The next question is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the reimbursement of the excise duty on fuels for farmers for 2015 and 2016. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u500	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question was asked on 1 September 2016, when there was not yet a procedure for recovering the excise duty for fuels for 2015, but the fact is that this procedure has started. You have appropriate instructions for application, acceptance of documents. In order not to bore us and not to waste time, however, I ask you to focus on two issues. First, for 2015, as a result of the procedure, the adoption of documents by the 27th, when will the payments be made? This is perhaps the most important issue that all farmers are interested in obtaining, recovering the excise duty on fuels. However, as far as I am aware, this notification also applies in the following year. It will be applied, what do you intend to do in terms of time limits, with regard to parameters, will they remain the same? Is it even working in any direction for 2016 to change this State aid and, possibly, will we wait for the end of the year again, to make payments for 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u501	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u502	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, you quoted the reception that is going now. Yeah, he ends next week. In any event, the payment to farmers of the exemption from the excise duty on fuels will be made within this calendar year, as the budget is also estimated under the terms of such aid, with the total funds not laid down in our budget, but in the estimates of the Customs Agency, with the estimated value of 84 million. lv. For the next year, of course, we are working, and in the end, the budgetary procedure is about to go to parliament and vote on the budget, and I have the assurance that this aid will be included in the estimates for the 2017 budget. Of course, we will not wait for the end of the year to start it, we will start it in time, of course, at the end of financial year 2016. On the occasion of the verification of the fuel invoices, I am merely suggesting that, for the first time, we apply a similar technical solution for the possibility of automatic verification of invoices which have been requested by farmers by the NRA. I have to thank you for the good communication we've had. I really hope that this will be a very effective model in principle for the implementation of other schemes that we will apply from next year to which financial documents will be presented. It will be opened at a time when, from the point of view of administration, it is the easiest, but in any case after completed financial year 2016 and submitted tax returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u503	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line is prof. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, the fact is that the way the aid has now been notified is much more accessible, but I think there are reserves in order to alleviate administrative procedures and the way checks are being carried out. There is also Mr. Kadiev, with whom, for the first time in 2007, we were able to notify such State aid for the recovery of the excise duty on fuels through customs. My request is to turn to this period and see how it was carried out, because it was indeed a good procedure that did not create any conditions for unnecessary administration and the control was also extremely great, especially by the Customs Agency. Thank you. [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]] They were checking customs again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u505	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Would you like to use the back? No. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on corruption practices in public procurement for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of road IV You have the floor, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have received a signal about a corruption scheme in the absorption of European funds under a public procurement contract for construction of a section of road between Sapareva Banya and Panichishte, funded by the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013. The price of the order is about 6 million. 200,000. lv. with VAT for a segment of about five and a half kilometers, i.e. more than 1 million. lv. About a mile away. At a maximum price of about 700 thousand. BGN for a similar road here is paid, as you can see, sensitively more. According to the information we received and the photo material I have, it is clear that a number of violations have been committed in the implementation of the construction works of the site and that no number of activities have been carried out that were within the scope of the public procurement. A video showing evidence of such violations, corruption practices in the procurement of the municipality of Sapareva Banya and serious irregularities of the implementation is shown in a publication of the website. Among the infringements is non-compliance with the mandatory layers imposed when laying the pavement in order to ensure quality. The pictures clearly show that the thickness of the two top layers of the asphalt is far from 8 cm and under the asphalt there are no planned floorings of bitumen crushed stone and unsortized stone material. The video and photo also show that there is no bituminous ballast, and in the drainage system concrete thorns are replaced by those of PVC that have less endurance and are at a far lower price. An on-the-spot check indicates that for the most part the drainage system is not functioning at all. Road facilities also do not correspond to the technical indicators as dimensions and reinforcements, and types and quantities of construction works related to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the road are not fulfilled on the site. Thus the failure to fulfil the requirements results in the saving of more than 50% of the estimated costs of the contractor, which have been completely unduly paid to them. The Frapiratory is that the construction supervision of the site, commissioned by the municipality of Sapareva Banya in June 2014, did not detect these irregularities. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: how has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food allowed the adoption of an object with such serious violations and suspicions of abuse? What are the results of the construction supervision of the procurement site in 2014 and why have the infringements not been resolved after the supervision? Who will take responsibility for the abuses committed and for the lack of control by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u507	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u508	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kadyev! After replying orally, I have prepared a detailed answer, which I will give you with a detailed inventory of the entire procedure, which has passed in the years since the submission of the project, which was during the old programming period 2007-2013, its completion, its payment, including at the moment after the relevant signals there is a check by the Department of Technical Inspectorate of the State Fund of Agriculture with relevant notes of non-compliance in the execution of the investment. The municipality of Sapareva Banya has given its objections as a disagreement and if these objections are not accepted by the Fund, he will, of course, ask for a refund of the funds paid with the corresponding interest. It's practically the state of the moment. Of course, I can read everything from the beginning, but I don't want it to be very interesting. That is why I am saying what is the situation at the moment and it is in the State Fund, where it is expected after the establishment by the Technical Inspectorate of non-compliance following the signals submitted and the submission of the objection to decide whether it will require back-payments at appropriate interest. I would like, with regard to the questions asked about the Ministry of Agriculture and Food or the State Fund, to submit a number of clarifications in relation to the competence. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall not submit or approve design applications under the measure under which this project has been approved at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In practice, the Leader approach is operated with the approval of local initiative groups and the approval of the project for the implementation of the strategies for local initiative groups. Second, with regard to the body that accepts the object, this body is the DNCC. With regard to construction supervision, this is licensed by the DNCC person. With regard to the powers of the SFA, these are the carrying out of administrative and physical on-the-spot checks, including on this signal, on which we expect a decision after getting acquainted with the documents, as this happens last week, in relation to the question asked. The previous week was October 20th, yes, on October 20th. It is then the last date when the municipality introduced an objection to the on-the-spot verification carried out by the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those are the competences. It is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as managing authority to manage the budget and to issue orders to take the appropriate measure. Whether it is under the old or the new programming period and during the new programming period these competences between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund of Agriculture did not undergo any change. However, with regard to the weaknesses that have been taken into account in the previous programming period, including the research procedures that we have, I will not say newness, with the highest intensity, with the highest amounts that we have started individual studies, these are public measures for public investment or the so-called Municipal measures. In this regard, measures have been taken over the years, and especially the last two years, to which, irrespective of the legality of the public procurements carried out, as part of that legality has been demonstrated, including with final court decisions in force and in practice, the Fund applies them as such, measures have been taken to set reference prices. As you know, for the first adoption of the new Rural Development Programme, ending last week, where there are submitted projects for more than BGN 2 million, a maximum number of types of operations and construction activities were applied reference prices, significantly lower in some cases than those that occur as practice and can be seen in the first programming period. And I believe that the budget that the country has for this programming period will be considerably more efficient and more targetedly spent so that the objectives of the Programme can be achieved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u509	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u510	Dear Minister, my question is for the day of July 18th. What expires on 20 October I do not know, but it is 3 months and 3 days, during which, in my opinion, this check should have already been carried out with all the necessary results of it. I didn't want to go into detail, but I'm going to give you an example that's simple to establish from the inspection. According to the working project is provided solid asphalt concrete 4 cm, non-solid asphalt concrete another 4 cm below it, bitumen crushed stone 8 cm, and unsortized stone material 40 cm as a base. The last two are gone at all, and that's what I can tell from the footage. No bituminous broken stone, no unsorted stone material. And from the eight centimeters of asphalt, from the measurements we've made, it's about six centimeters. And this is something that, in my opinion, you need no more than one day to establish it and to ask the firm or to restore the path as it is, or to demand the funds back, or to recommend to the municipality or something to do, because in the end of the day, from a time that must have a base of 50 cm and above 8 cm of asphalt, there are six centimeters of asphalt on top. That's the final thing. And you can see that from the pictures. There's a video that's about half an hour, and I'm not making it up. The state just needs to look for interests, if you need to refer to the DNCC, if you need to, I can do it, or the Ministry on a business road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u511	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Will you use your right to the back? We move on to the last question. He is from the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the presentation of an opinion by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the report of BAS on the state of Bulgarian agriculture. You have the floor, Professor Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u512	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Dear Minister, my question has also grown older since it has been a while since the publication of the report, but it has not yet lost its relevance and in all meetings with our voters, colleagues, this issue is being raised. That's why I'm putting it on the table to make it clear to people how it is with this report. So, on June 6, 2016, the Economic Institute of BAS presented a report on the economic development of Bulgaria and the main part of it focused on the state of the agricultural sector. The data in the report are very disturbing and have caused serious discussions in the scientific circles and all those related to agricultural production. Disturbing data on deformities in the absorption of funds from the European funds are also presented. The authors of the report show that in absolute terms the average annual amount of gross domestic product in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sector is about 4 billion BGN and in 2015 reaches levels by a quarter lower than the average for the period 1998 - 2006. The results show that in the case of super-large monocultural farming compared to traditional Bulgarian production, the country loses about 10 billion. added value and around 500 thousand jobs. Scientists submit data that 75% of the 1st pillar subsidy goes to 3,700 individuals, also on 2nd pillar goes 67% to them. My question is: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the data presented on the economic development of the agricultural sector in Bulgaria and on the proposal for a general change of the agricultural model in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u513	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u514	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov! Yes, this report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences came out. Representatives and experts of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food were also present at its presentation. We agree that important topics and issues are being discussed, but we believe that this is what we expressed at his presentation that this report interprets data that outlines negative trends without taking into account the positive points in it. In this sense, in relation to the short time I have, I will try only on the data you have quoted, to give a rebuttal to the data we use, we have, and they are due to the official agrostatistics and data of the National Statistical Institute. The percentage of apples, tomatoes and meat you quoted, according to the Ministry's calculations based on official import and export production data, the domestic consumption of most of the main agricultural products is mainly satisfied by local production. On average for the last five years, products such as bread, lamb, eggs, yogurt, cow cheese, cherries, apricots and other Bulgarian production have formed around or over 90% of domestic consumption. A little lower, but relatively high is this share in fresh milk, beef, tomatoes, cucumbers, pepper, apples and peaches................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ An exception makes certain types of meat, such as pork and chicken, which are regularly imported in significant quantities. However, much of these imports are not offered directly for consumption by the population, but are directed to the needs of processing enterprises, i.e. to produce products with high added value. We should also take into account the fact that trade between the Member States of the European Union is completely free and, as with us, imports of the products in question are available, there are also exports. The example is with chicken meat, where Bulgaria also imports and exports in significant quantities. By product in 2015 this indicator has the following values. For apples, nearly 60% of the consumption is satisfied with local production, cherries, 97%, apricots, peaches, 64%, tomatoes, cucumbers and pepper, about 70%, from 66 to 71%. For animal products, satisfying the consumption of production produced in the country is as follows. In milk, about 60%, in yogurt at 97%, in cow cheese and cheese at 90% and nearly 82% respectively, in eggs at about 92%. With regard to meats, local production satisfies nearly 92% of the country's consumption of lamb, 61% of beef, 38% and 36%, respectively, for pork and chicken, and with chicken we have a significant share in exports. The analysis does not take into account the positive trends in the development of exports of agricultural goods from Bulgaria, with the impression that mainly raw materials are exported instead of products with higher added value. Against the backdrop of the country's overall negative trade balance, trade in agricultural goods traditionally formed a positive balance, which exceeded 2 billion in 2015. lv. Overall, in the last 15 years, there has been a trend of an increase in Bulgarian agricultural exports, especially strongly expressed after our country's accession to the European Union. With regard to the debate on a new model, this conclusion, as such, should have been debated in the years before 2007, when we held our accession negotiations with the European Union. Once again, the funding model, which is then negotiated, has a different impact on individual sectors. What we have done since 2014, thanks to the reform of the common agricultural policy and as a national decision, the law that we have taken and applied is to restore balanced agriculture in Bulgaria as the most possible resources, which European law allows us to direct them to the underfunded sectors of fruit, vegetable, meat, milk. As a national plan, the national funds that Bulgaria spends every year on the sector of the EU and they are more than 300 million national funds for direct payments in the form of various State aid schemes plus 84 million, pledged together with the exceptional European support it has had, the funds will exceed 4 million. lv. This year, the national resource that the state will provide outside European and without national co-financing under European schemes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These funds from the beginning of this mandate are mainly allocated again to the fruit, vegetable, meat and milk sector and with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises for market sustainability and competitiveness. For the first time in these two years, we have gradually introduced the modular support rate into each of the schemes by which national funds are paid and, for the following year, life and health, upon approval of the notification of the tied support, this approach will also be applied under the tied support production scheme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u515	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. You've exhausted your right to a duplicate. I hope the line doesn't trigger one. You have the floor, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for the answers.. They were very detailed. I know what you're doing is exactly right. I believe that you are working very seriously to change the model of monocultural supercrete agricultural production. But I put this question to hear from this tribune what is being done and to verify whether these figures are true and true and whether they correspond to the exact and actual state of things. But, dear Minister, it is disturbing that already in agriculture, as people say, I do not want to express myself in this way that feudalism has entered, that whole settlements are already occupied by these large farmers, that villages depopulate, that the idea of small and medium-sized enterprises could not be realised. And the plan was different. I thank you for what you are doing, and I hope that together we will develop a national strategy and we will look for these solutions to make real changes. Because cereal production is modern and this is the light ray in agriculture, but everything else is not good enough in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u517	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. The next question is once again by you concerning the exclusion of the agreements of permanent estates, landscapings, landscapings and permanent plantings, and their provision without auction under art. 37th of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this question has also been put a long time ago and you must have solutions to the problem, but now it is time for an answer. According to the amendment of the Law on the Use of Agricultural Land from the Agreements, the properties with a way of permanent use are excluded from the estates with grounds that they are provided for a special order for their use, namely the provision of them without tender in accordance with art. 37i of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land for Farmers. For pastures, meres and meadows, which are provided without auction, the grounds are clear to real livestock farmers, but for permanent crops there are none. There is no logical explanation why the owners and users of permanent crops are being deprived of the possibility of agreements and use of the arrays in a convenient way for them. There are large arrays of old and newly planted permanent crops that are running out of contract time. The heirs of many of them have left the country and others have lost interest in ownership and do not provide certificates of ownership, and these lands remain white spots. So far, these problems have been solved through the agreements. There are also no agreements for livestock farmers, and the absence of such agreements is not advantageous because the pastures are dedicated with or without auctions at different times and in different places. This creates an inconvenience for their rational use. My question is: what are the reasons for excluding property agreements for permanent use? Is it possible to propose an adjustment under art. 37th of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land and preventing the imposition of a penalty on these users? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u519	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u520	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov! I won't read my prepared answer. I will try to explain the reasons for this amendment on a proposal from MPs, which was adopted by Parliament and which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has supported. I'll go this way. The Institute of Agreement under art. 37c was made a few years ago. The agreement remained particularly relevant when we introduced in this mandate the legal basis for land use as an eligibility criterion for obtaining subsidies. We will actually get there, and the question revolves around the right for everyone to receive subsidies. What is the instrument under art. 37c? In practice, the intervention of an administrative authority, in the face of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, to grant, through his will and under his management, the right to a farmer for one year, fulfilling the criteria of the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land for a procedure to be followed, he to manage and operate the respective lands, I am not talking about what, agricultural, permanent grasslands or permanent crops, given that the owners of the property have not expressed their will, have not managed their lands and the state has seized the management from them, paid on an outside budget account and farmers are working on them. What problems did this cause? Firstly, for permanent crops, the old crops with permanent crops became particularly relevant when the mechanism for tied support began to be implemented. In the end, the role of the 800 million. EUR per year which the State has as direct payments and through the 13 per cent of them for tied support in order to stimulate competitive agriculture, these permanent crops, firstly, are usually expired on depreciation because these are old arrays left over from liquidation. Second, the instrument under art. 37c decides these rights in one year. There can be no serious farming for permanent crops with a management concept for one year. This is not serious! The state should provide the resource it has, in the most effective way, stimulating the most intensive technologies in the cultivation of any culture. In terms of permanent grassland, just a little statistic. In 2014, the number of livestock farmers benefiting from this instrument was only 228 units for 94 thousand acres. After this year, we introduce the legal basis and suddenly introduce a norm of distribution of permanent grassland to an animal unit, namely 10 acres per animal unit. What happens in 2016? Suddenly, 2900 livestock farmers benefit from this instrument in 31,600 total animals, i.e. less than 10% of the livestock farmers using this instrument, in the course of the agreements declare 610 thousand acres, but not covered by animals. In practice, the instrument thus damages people who have animals, livestock farmers who watch animals. The role of the state is because of the limitedness of this resource to distribute it in equal justice to all livestock farmers. [[Reply from the National Representative Ivan Stankov.]] Yeah, there's an active group, considering there's complaints. I said what the numbers say. If the lawyers found a constitutionally appropriate norm, a rule by which the state could administer the management of unclaimed private owners permanently grasslands with the requirement of an animal unit, I would support, I wouldn't mind. If we can comply with this tool to be managed and applied with the criterion 10, now 15 acres per animal unit, let us apply it! In return, it practically circumvents the norm which, as a public resource, we strive to distribute equally to all livestock farmers. That's the problem, and that was the motive. The task force's working. If it comes to ways to implement this instrument, which is compatible with the objectives of achieving competitive farming, we would, of course, make appropriate changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u521	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Stankov, come in for a line. I hope she doesn't need the backrest again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm satisfied with the answer you're giving. I know he won't like a lot of people. I would ask if you could give me your written opinion, so that we can, when we go to places, clarify how things stand in front of people. The worry is that this happens only days before the end of the deadline for submitting declarations. It's disturbing people. And secondly, they're worried about sanctions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u523	There will be no sanctions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u524	This thing needs to be made clear to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-21.u525	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Madam Minister. Let us thank all the MPs who took part, the Quaestors, the stenographers, the entire administration of the National Assembly, in order to enable today's parliamentary control. We thank the teams of Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio, which made it possible to gain control to Bulgarian viewers and listeners. We have long run out of time for today's parliamentary control, which is why I am closing this meeting. The next session is on October 26th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
