ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u1	I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages: - Decision No 682 of 1 September 2016 of the Commission for Protection of Competition was adopted by the National Assembly. The material is provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly; - on 29 September 2016 with vc. No 639-00-16 was received in the National Assembly a report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 August 2016. "24 September 2016 and Protocol No 41 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly; - the National Statistical Institute has received information on the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in September 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the point that is fixed for today for the beginning of the sitting, namely: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LOCAL LOCATION LOCATION LOCKING OR SCREENING THE PERSON. It is No 654-01-58, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016. It was adopted at the first vote on 15 June 2016. With the Commission's report... [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the item on the agenda of the National Assembly under art. 52, para. 2, p. 2 of the National Assembly's Rules on Organization and Activity. Our arguments in this direction are as follows. Something does not require us to be the third country in the world with such a ban. In addition to Belgium, France and some German provinces, these are the countries with the greatest concentration of terrorist acts. [[Comments and calls from GERB: "This is what you have already read! "]] And in Bulgaria, fortunately, there is none. More than that, colleagues. Recently, the French Constitutional Court abolished the ban of local authorities on the so-called Burkini. The high purpose of the National Assembly, colleagues, is to adopt norms and laws in the interests of society, and the most important is the security, the inviolable life and the health of this society. This Law, my fellow Members, is aggravating security, gives rise to rematchist, radical, fundamentalist, unhealthy forces to seek edification and vengeance. We are all familiar with the Law of Physics: each action has an equal and opposite reaction, colleagues. [[Noise and lines.]] This is another decision and law under the ultimatum pressure of ultranationalists, and in this sense perhaps a kind of pre-election bargaining on the eve of the election campaign for presidential elections, a law that is an expression of Islamophobia, religious discrimination and xenophobia and is harmful to society. Colleagues, none of these bombers have been veiled, face-to-face or shut down. On top of that, notice, they're also suicidal. [[Replying and shouting.]] That's why they don't hide. This law does not concern terrorism. The philosophy of all these people has an open face to God. Therefore, my suggestion is that this item be removed from the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Karakachanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to put my opinion back. This Law is not any Islamophobia. This Law was adopted either in its similar form in seven European countries, including Switzerland, and not in several German provinces, and it is the exact opposite of what the colleague before me said. In fact, radicalism has and this Law is an attempt to stop radicalism, the division of society and its opposition on a religious basis, because, as a German politician from a German province of Bavaria said recently, in fact the burka is a uniform. It is not an expression of any religious feelings. I agree absolutely with Newton's Law, which you quote, that every action has an equal and opposite reaction. That's exactly what the reaction is. If there were no such excesses in Europe, if there were no such excesses in Pazardzhik and elsewhere, such a law would hardly have been born in this National Assembly. I agree with every action and the action of the Islamization of Bulgarian society, the radicalization of Bulgarian Muslims, who are good Bulgarian citizens, gives birth to the reaction that wants to stop these negative processes. So I'm making a reverse proposal, so let's continue on the agenda and let this Law go through plenary at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. We are voting on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Jayhan Ibryamov to postpone the item to be removed from the agenda. [[Heckling]] Postponement is essentially dropping from the agenda for this programme. They voted 153 MPs: 19 against 87, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote and please, Mr. Ibryamov, no arguments on the ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u6	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I propose a re-vote because a colleague has failed to vote. [[Radio.]] The philosophy of this Law is wrong, colleagues! The subject matter of the Law cannot concern ten women in one neighborhood in one city.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u7	Mr. Ibryamov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u8	Let's make a law for the kibbits then, a law for... [[Loud noise and lines.]] Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. It's a re-vote. They voted 154 MPs: 22, against 92, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Velchev, if you'd like to introduce the Chamber to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u10	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Report on the Clothing Bill covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016, adopted at the first vote on 15 June 2016. The second vote. ..the work of wearing clothing, covering or hiding the face............................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: the Law on the restriction of wearing clothing, concealing or hiding the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u11	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u12	Yes, procedure. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A moment ago, you rejected the twice procedural proposal to drop the item from the agenda. I offer you the next procedural proposal that I am about to make this time to comply with it and capture the chance, the last chance that you are given, to erase the suspicion that the majority has fallen into absolute dependence on nationalists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u13	What is your procedure, Mr. Kazak?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u14	In order to please the Patriotic Front in order to guarantee your unsolicited rule for a few more months, you are willing to do anything, even if you accept anti-democratic texts. I am making a procedural proposal, Mr President, as this Law contains, to put it mildly, controversial provisions, provisions that cause disputes, disturbances in society, which should at least once again be considered, tailored, consulted with the relevant institutions...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u15	On what point? You mean by the name of the title?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u16	Postpone the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u17	We've already voted on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u18	No! It was a procedure for dropping a item off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u19	On the contrary, we could go back to the stenogram, it was a delay, and I said it was about delaying and dropping out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u20	For dropping the item from the agenda was the procedure of colleague Jayhan Ibryamov. PRESENTER DIMITRE VOICE: I have very carefully followed what your colleague has suggested, he proposed a delay, and I have clarified that the postponement means dropping out. You can do it later if you want, check with the stenogram. We continue with the debates on the name of the Law. [[Reply of Chetin Kazak.]] That's why I'm asking you: do you want to postpone the debate on the title?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u21	Under the bill, not the title.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u22	But make sure that's what we voted for. There's a transcript. We continue only with speeches. When we complete the procedure, then the following procedures. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like you to know that we are taking this bill very seriously and I will tell you another point of view that we have not spoken about in this House, but we have spoken to each other, including yesterday we have spoken to the President of the Commission, Mr. Krasimir Velchev. I take the floor on the name because I think this is the place to dispel a few doubts that I think are being misplaced on this bill. Colleagues, this bill is not and cannot be about wearing clothing, concealing or hiding the person, because it concerns a completely different subject matter and it is indeed in very direct contact with religious norms. As a Christian theologian, I would like to tell you that certain parts of clothing are an attribute to a certain religious doctrine, including the Christian doctrine. They express certain religious norms, which are called in theology of doctrines, forgive me, called in theology of dogmas, and in Christianity wearing headscarves is also one of those norms. You know this very well, and you know it not only by our grandmothers, who all their lives walked with headscarves, not in temples, of course, not covering the face, but covering hair and parts of the face, such as ears, beard and so on, but in modern times certain religious currents in Christianity continue to wear this attribute, and in the temple itself this is the case. A woman can't go to confession or communion without a headscarf attached in a certain way to cover up certain parts. It's not a tradition, colleagues, it's a religious norm. And anyone who deals with this matter, or any believer, knows that these are religious norms. So to dispel the first doubt that this Law concerns clothing rather than religious standards, religious norms. The second doubt, the second suggestion being that this Law concerns national security. I am absolutely convinced and I share what Mr. Velchev and I spoke to yesterday that at certain times in certain places the person should be exposed and not just the face, but hands and so on, but this should not have been done by Law. Because it is about certain places, because it is about certain ways in which a person must identify his personality, and this could have happened both with regulations and with norms in other laws. Why is it being done in a punctuated law and implying that it is about national security? To avoid the essence of the Law, namely, that it affects religious orders. In this sense, I think we should take this type of legislation a little more seriously. Moreover, a legal act, such as the Law, should concern, by settling public relations, a significant group of public relations. What public relations does this Law govern when it comes to 50 or 100 people, if we are talking about the so-called "books" that conceal part of the person? Obviously, this is about another type of suggestion. And that's why my colleagues in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are doing, who are so violently reacting. If this was about national security, we've proven before that we can and can work in the interests of national security. But here, purely and simply, it's about Islamophobia. But I'm telling you, Christianity has such ways. And the majority of us here are Christians, or at least the paperwork says most of them. And we should not approach such complex matter as the religious feelings of every Bulgarian citizen. For this reason, we are reacting so violently and we want a postponement because, among other things, we believe that this Law is not only an expression of election bargaining within the ruling coalition, but this Law is seriously staining the European face of the ruling party "GERB." We think you should take a serious look and see that in whatever form this Law is adopted... I admire the Commission President's efforts to soften texts because, as they were imported, our wives and mothers had to go to religious temples and beyond and be fined for respecting religious norms, religious dogmas. I appeal to you to take this seriously. This is not the National Security Act!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u25	My fellow Members, I am pleased that this issue is being put at the outset. I hope that when we clarify it in the title, it will be clear to everyone that I agree with Mr. Tsonev that some try to suggest that this Law is directed against certain religious communities in Bulgaria, which is not so that this Law is repressive, which is also not the case that this Law has nothing to do with national security, which is not the case. What do I mean? Now that we have made things clear, and then the reading and voting of the Law, let the people who will speak read it. They still have time. Let them read it because the majority of the things that have been proposed, including the DPS, we have accepted them. I obviously want to say that this Law has nothing to do with the headscarves and costumes of all our religious communities in Bulgaria. And now there are people asking me, "Do you forbid headscarves?" None of what we're talking about concerns this Law and it doesn't forbid it. Again, this isn't about the burkas. That name came up in the debate. Many debates were held during the discussions, including the Law, were adopted, agreed and approved by the Chief Mufti. I mean that! The things we are talking about are clothing elements that cover or hide parts of the face... eyes, nose, mouth. Should I say, now that we are talking about security and national security, that 80% of the detection rate of crimes in each country is already due to video surveillance systems? How are institutions going to mind their own business if we don't give them the opportunity to make a discovery? In the center of the cities, bank robberies have started. It's just from the people who wear hoods and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Second line, Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsonev, you have proven with your speech that you have not read the text of the Law or wish to mislead the Members of the National Assembly about its meaning. You have repeatedly referred to how we will force our mothers and so on to enter the temple without headscarves. There's a special exception for the temples. And in the old version, there was an exception for the temples again. The purpose of this Law was never to limit anyone to confess and freely declare their religion. The aim is, first of all, to ensure national security, to ensure the identification of individuals and, second of all, to end this already unfortunately imposed in part of Western Europe a practice of segreging society on a religious principle. In fact, you're supposed to be a liberal party, and you want us to allow this humiliation to the woman! This is not even a religion, but some interpretations of this religion, which have nothing to do with the Bulgarian traditions and the way the representatives of the Islamic community in Bulgaria in general and are currently exercising their rights. In this spirit, I protest against the way in which you mislead the National Assembly. I think that this is another expression of the disparity of the DPS to try to be a liberal party and to play with the extreme Islamists in Bulgaria and to have a double image in front of Europe and its own electorate, if you will and in front of Turkey. My call to you is: be Europeans, accept the Law! Don't squirm like a squirming viper...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u28	Please be careful with your qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u29	...because the purpose of the Law is to make more European image of Bulgaria, including the people who are your constituents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u30	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u31	Enough with the metaphors! Mr. Chairman, make him a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u32	I made an observation, didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u33	If Mrs. Tsacheva were the chairman, she would have punished him!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u34	He wouldn't have punished him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u35	Third line, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I never expected to take the floor outside the field of health, but I guess I have to. I fully understand your move. That's because your mass voter looks at clothing as not his personal tradition. You're the party that has to protect him. This is your role in the National Assembly. However, you as a secular party should also have the role of telling the truth to your voter on your channels, which you know yourself. What's the truth? Dear Mr. Tsonev, burka is not religious clothing. Even the headscarf in Islam is controversial.. whether it is just a headscarf or just a little covering your hair. The burka is the result of the economic boom of the Islamic Empire, and there are a lot of slaves returning to the Half-Arabic Island and then they can't tell who the soups are or who the slaves are. They decide and say: it's an old tradition that the chorbaji girls are closed. This is the ninja outfit where she came out and the slaves are found. For your information, the slaves were found from the navel up. In the markets, when sold, that's how they sell. I mean, be careful where you intercede. It has nothing to do with Islam. It has now become part of the tactics of ISIS and the Islamic State. Indeed, what the patriots said is true. It's a uniform. For your information, it is used by Islamic State fighters to move out of the cities in case they start to lose. They dress like that and they come out. Under the assumption that a woman can't be checked out, they're moving out. I can show you videos of fighters of the Islamic State caught in such clothing, even powdered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u37	Time's up, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u38	So calm down, don't go into the coworker's movie. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u39	Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You didn't listen to me, or I got off on the wrong foot. I made a statement on the name of the Law, and with arguments I told you that this is not a dress law. It does not affect national security in the version in which it is proposed. If the standards of disclosure of the person, of identity were not in a targeted law, were not on purpose, it would be what you say, dear Mr. Abu Melih. My statement was with arguments that this is a targeted Law concerning not Islam, but religious norms called dogmas and related parts of clothing, because moral norms are sometimes carried in behavioral norms, in parts of clothing. I gave you an example of Christianity. I didn't talk about Islam anywhere in my speech. I told you that as a Christian theologian, there are such norms that Christian women also wear headscarves. I didn't say faces or anything. I'm doing the backdrop of the three colleagues because none of them came up with why it's in a separate law, as I asked. No one denied me that this Law should not be said so because it does not concern clothing and because it does not make a separate Law on clothing. If it is a matter of national security, it must be elsewhere, in other norms, even in regulations. By the way, there are such proposals in the Law made by our former colleagues and colleagues. I don't see why you're shifting the subject of my speech. Because it's no use to you what I've disproved. It is a Law that has a clear political and election character. He's dangerous because he's re-instilling a division in society because he's instilling religious, religious, and other forms of intolerance in society. If you look a little deeper and outwardly at the letter of this Law, in the spirit of this Law, because a law is not only norms, it is also how it is offered, and at what time, to whom it serves and so on and so forth. I believe that the lines that were made were not in the direction of my speech. You've made lines of your own intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. A statement by the MP Hüseyin Hafuzov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Looks like someone's got to be telling the truth. The truth with the First of all, let us clarify what the intentions really are, what the objectives of this Law are, and whether this Law is the first in the country. Was there any earlier in terms of clothing? In my opinion, you must stand dignifiedly and masculinely on this stand, colleagues who have introduced this Law, and make it clear that this Law is about limiting the wearing of religious clothes in accordance with Islam. That must be the real name. Why are you hiding behind euphemisms, why are you hiding behind other concepts, when the whole society and this room is very clear what the purposes and intentions of this Law are? The real name must once again be as it was before for the removal of religious clothing. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that this is not the first time there have been such attempts in this country. The first recorded attempts were from 1912, when the paramilitary formations of IMRO forcibly Christianized and baptized the Rhodopes. That was the first time that the Pomakini headscarves were removed by force. We remember that! No later, after several decades, again in Bulgaria in 1934, again with force Druzhba "Rodina" is trying to remove the clothes of Muslim women. A few decades later, the so-called cultural revolution in Bulgaria once again made a successful attempt to eliminate the so-called ferrets. That's why this process is called a defecation. The ferret is a kind of burka, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u43	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u44	If anyone claims that in this country, honourable colleagues, Muslims did not use this outfit... [[Replying, noise, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u45	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u46	What's hidden through the burka is similarly covered by the ferret. During these periods there were attempts and success, namely to undermine the honour of Muslim women according to their understandings at that time, and even now. Either way, you should be aware that when we vote on this Law in any form, you are insulting not only the Muslims who live in this country, you are insulting the entire Islamic community worldwide. We will also have guests who will visit the country, and they will not feel secure enough in our country. Let's put the name as it comes from the inside. Admit that this is precisely limiting the wearing of Muslim clothing. Be worthy patriots and admit that this is the real purpose. Either way, I'm against not only changing the name, I'm against this law in substance. I think he's very much opening up a big gap in society again. We need, above all, knowledge, understanding, and mutual respect in every respect. Dear colleagues, the extent to which Muslim clothing is an attribute is controversial. In my opinion, this is a religious norm, it is a religious obligation, and it is by this Law that we do not allow Muslims, especially Muslim women, to live according to their own understandings. In this country, everyone has a right to happiness. Everyone has the right to religious confession. If with this Law we are a prerequisite and reason for a group, a subcultural group to feel unhappy, will you be happier, I ask you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u47	Is happiness in burkas?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u48	Is someone's misfortune a happiness for you? [[Reply, shout and noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u49	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u50	Given that we live in an open, modern society and some women's understandings are to dress in a certain way, who are we to oblige or restrict them in one or another? Thank you for your attention. I have more to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Hafuzov? The line is Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Where are you, Mr. Hafuzov? Are you looking closely at me?! You wanted me to be a man in front of you. I'm a man in front of you because unlike you, I'm a man.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u53	Mr. Karakachanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u54	This Law has not been made to restrict the rights of anyone here, you wanted a male response. This Law is designed to limit the attempts of certain circles to use one religion or another to instill hatred, opposition, and prevent attempts at terrorism. Regarding the fact that you mentioned IMRO and Druzhba, Rodina. IMRO in its ranks had thousands of Muslim Bulgarians. Muslim Bulgarians! You can ask your colleagues from DPS from the western Rhodopes. Maybe you know that, too. [[Reply from Hüseyin Hafuzov.]] You should know that. Very well then. Secondly, your arguments would honor Erdogan's party and Turkish Maglis, but do not honor the Bulgarian Parliament. You even threatened the country that someone would give us something back. I don't understand what kind of representative you are?! Whose Constitution did you swear on? In the Constitution of secular Bulgaria or serve any other interests? I ask you a simple question? And yet, male, I say to you: this bill is directed only to protect, including the Bulgarian Muslims, from what external factors try to do to divide them, to oppose them and to turn them against the rest of the population. This is unacceptable in the 21st century in a European, democratic and secular state such as Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. The second line is Mr. Abu Melih's and the third line of the MP Valeri Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u56	Dear Mr. Hafuzov, traditional, professional, Islamic speaking. In the name of the democracy that Bulgaria has given you to stand here on the stand, you are starting to use religious topics with which you have nothing to do with it. You say, "I think you do." You're not God's proxy, it's not your job to say, I think. You know very well why I know, and you know. Remember, my name is Semir Hussein Abu Melih. This subject you've got on her is very dangerous! It's very dangerous! It's clear to me that you want to put five more voters extra into your party, but you're making a mistake. I address your constituents who sympathize with this type of talk. Do they know that women are ninjas, where they are, and you want to make them ninjas, in the next stage you will tell them that you are not allowed out of the house without a male escort! Do they know that? They don't know it because it's one by one the little bit is given, right? Calm down! This topic is without prejudice to Islam. It has nothing to do with Islam. If not, I am prepared to stand against you in a real debate and prove to me in the Qur'an where it is for the burka ninja clothing, desert clothing. There are two societies that dress up like this and the Eskimos dress up like this where it is very cold and where it is covered, only with leather. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] You see, it has nothing to do with the other! I told you, and you know it, it became widespread after the economic boom of the Islamic Empire to distinguish who is who, what does Islam have to do with it, and what does it have to do with heaven? Is that what you're gonna tell anyone who doesn't put on a burka, doesn't go to heaven, goes to hell? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u57	The weather, Mr. Abu Melih. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Valerie Jablyanov, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Hafuzov, in the name of truth, such legislation has been passed. In 1925, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk legally abolished the wearing of fezes and other religious clothing in the Ottoman Empire. I assume you are not questioning Kemal Ataturk's legislative work and the reason for these laws to be applied. Your statement shows either serious manipulation of facts that you know or ignorance of an essential period in the history of the Ottoman Empire and of modern Turkey, which I sincerely regret. [[Applause from BSP LB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u59	Mr. Hafuzov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u60	My fellow Members, it's really an interesting subject, isn't it? When it comes to limiting the Islamic community, I do see a very serious and intense enthusiasm. Mr. Karakachanov, I, as origins, come from this region. I remember the stories of my grandmothers and great-grandmothers when they cried when they were being harassed when their headscarves were forced off and their headscarves and their veils were forced off. We remember that, on the one hand! We know that this law is the first step towards a complete limitation of Muslim clothing. Mr. Abu Melih, of course you know religion very well. Of course you are very competent and on this subject, of course there is no one to surpass you, no one to pass you on this subject, you are a specialist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u62	I am currently sent precisely by voters and fellow citizens who want me to protect their interest. I don't speak for myself, only and only... although my understanding is the same... Our citizens, above all, want understanding so that they can live freely in their own country. Do not give examples from 20 or 30 centuries ago because we live in modern Bulgaria and every citizen must be calm, must be worthy. [[Reply from MP Semir Abu Melih.]] Up to whether it is from the Islamic or non-Islamic norm, you very well know that Islam has many schools, currents, there are many theological schools that interpret one way or another.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u63	Who are you from?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u64	We need to understand each and every one of them. It is important what is the understanding of the citizen to wear clothing, besides root texts, there are also Hadis. Are you referring to the Hadis or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u65	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u66	The Qur'an says what is not prescribed in the Qur'an, take it from the Prophet. Exactly, and there are Hadis in that direction. Mr. Zablyanov, as to whether we comply with the practice in Turkey, let us then return to modern Turkey. There are no restrictions at the moment. At the moment, in the Republic of Turkey, anyone can dress as he sees fit. Let's take good practice. Let's take practice from Sweden, why are you bringing me back in 1925? I return you to 2016. In the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Denmark these garments are not prohibited. Don't they have any other security concerns or anything? I would like to finally say the following: if you are really afraid for this society, you are afraid, you wish for the life and health of the Bulgarian people to be preserved, to adopt a law, Mr. Ibryamov, to adopt a law on the prohibition of salt and salt products. This is really a problem for Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Hafuzov. The time for the doppelganger is up. To calm the passions, we have guests from Troyan on the balcony. Please say hello. They are attending a rather energetic debate. [[Applause.]] You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov. I'm only asking for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, only by procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I am doing a procedure to end this debate, as we see that radically tuned MPs use this important legislation for the Bulgarian society, to outline and highlight a dividing line between the Bulgarian society on a religious and religious basis, which is unacceptable. I invite my fellow Members to accept my proposal to end the debate, we are still only under the name of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u69	You're right, Mr. Bayraktarov. 52, para. 2, p. 3. A reverse opinion? I won't. My fellow Members, I am putting the procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 145 MPs: 121, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are putting an end to the debate on the title of the Bill. My fellow Members, I am voting on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for the name of the Law. Vote 150 MPs: 126, against 23, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, some of the speakers have tried to represent what they think the role of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms looks like. Dear colleagues, we know our role, namely, our role is to be a nationally responsible political party! Ladies and gentlemen, this Law and such laws do not contribute to the national security of our homeland, but harm the national security of our homeland! And the question is not: who, but how the responsibility is borne, if acts brought about by such laws happen, which, I hope, none of those present here in this Chamber, does not want to happen, because both radical, xenophobic people offer this Law, so in the same way external radical, revanshist, fundamentalist xenophobes can wave such laws and hide behind the words that, you see, in Bulgaria Muslims are suppressed and under the action of law. These are actions perhaps, as I said earlier, of radical and xenophobic people, but above all GERB cannot hide behind them. These are the actions of GERB and the majority in this National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And from this point of view, honourable Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I suggest we not be complicit in this case. [[Applause from DPS.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u71	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Second negative vote? The esteemed MP, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against the name, even in the version, because whatever name you give to this Bill, its aim is a clear Nazi denial of the cultural difference in Bulgarian society. Everything else is blah-blah. I am impressed with the development of the position of colleagues from the DPS, because they did not even vote against this bill at first reading, symbolically gave only one vote against. Now, they realized their behavior was wrong, today they're playing hardball, radically. And if I have to repeat one of their MPs, it's really late for a wrist job. On these subjects honorably, from the first reading! And I see, now for the second reading, they have made proposals with which they simply participate in the initiative of the Patriotic Front. A certain type of clothing could be banned in public and an exception was made, you see, for religious temples. What about the cemetery?! The cemetery is a public place. [[Noise and lines.]] That's exactly what I'm asking, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the smartest thing to do today is to put an end to the debate, to drop the item from the agenda, to reconsider once again this Bill. The only consideration relating to national security is reflected in our proposal to oblige each citizen to disclose his or her person when requested by officials in a certain way. Here is the answer relating to the national security recital. Not a ban, but an obligation of individuals culturally different for the purpose of national security to reveal their faces. This is the only possible approach. Everything else is discrimination and denial of religious difference. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Your proposal I take only as a comment, as we have already put to the vote... [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Third negative vote? There aren't any. Procedure? [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Here you are, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Procedure in the manner of conduct, because it seems to me that it is appropriate that the President leading the meeting make a remark to the Members of the National Assembly when they speak untruths. First of all, it's not a good tone to evaluate your colleagues, and it's not true. But this will leave him aside to the conscience of every MP, his morals. The movement for rights and freedoms also left at first reading. We left only one colleague of ours who would give his voice symbolically against it to make it clear that we are leaving because we are against it. So what this tribune of pre-talking is frankly untrue so that I don't use another word, because I don't think you should speak from this tribune like that. Secondly, we have had the courage to say in our speech, Mr. President, and here the speaker again made suggestions that do not comply with the truth, we said that as far as national security is concerned in the Law there are other proposals to other former colleagues of our DPS who somehow meet the requirements for national security to be respected. We had the decency to do so, although these colleagues of ours do not have the decency to say good words about their former colleagues. But that's what I'm saying, I'm leaving it to their conscience. But from this tribune, please don't let them speak untruths.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Either way, it's a hypothesis on your part. You had a chance to express yourself at least. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan. Noise and lines.]] You both have your reasons, come on in. [[Reply from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Take your pick. [[Noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u76	By the way, the remark you just heard, in greater measure, you deserve it from me, Mr. Chairman. Because if it's not true, there is, unfortunately, a video memory. There's a video memory. You were all here, inside the room. There was no protest act of leaving! You were here and I'll provide you with a videotape. Being here, there is only one vote against it, because the recital has been, we are against it, but we will surprise you... [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] In
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u77	Mr. Mestan...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u78	...that we are not firmly opposed because we respect some motives. That's the truth, Mr. Chairman. And if we are talking about lies from this tribune and you should be the censor, you should have made a remark to the one who uses formal procedure in the manner of conduct to enter into dialogue with me. I think you made another mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u79	Mr. Mestan, thank you. Either way, I can't be a censor, I'm a guarantee that the Rules will be respected and respected. As for what is a lie and what is true, there are institutions in Bulgaria that prove it. Here you are, with Chapter One, dear Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u80	The Commission shall propose before art. 1 to create the name of Chapter One, and it is to limit the wearing of clothing, concealing or concealing the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u81	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a proposal from the Commission for the name of Chapter One. Vote 108 MPs: 105 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u82	There is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva art. One down. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak, it is the same. One down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, with points 2 and 3 being reflected in their systematic place in a new art. 2. A proposal from Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission pursuant to points (a)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u83	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Firstly, honourable Members, I am voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group which the Commission does not support, as well as the proposal from the National Representative Mr Kazak, as they are identical. They voted 111 MPs: for 3, against 91, abstention 17. The proposals have not been accepted. Now, honourable Members, I am voting on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 1. Vote 112 MPs: 109 against 3, no abstentions. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u84	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 2: Art. 2 (1) Public places in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not be allowed to wear clothing covering part or concealing completely the face. (2) Public place within the meaning of para. 1 is any publicly available place in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u85	Statements on the proposal to create a new art. Two? There aren't any. Please vote. They voted 109 MPs: 106 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u86	Under art. 2 has a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak. Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva art. 2 to become art. 1 single, with the following content: Art. 1. Officials may require citizens and temporary or permanent residents in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to disclose their persons appropriately for the purpose of establishing their identity or for the performance of certain duties or functions. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 4. Proposal from the People's Representative Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, with paragraphs 1 and 2 being reflected in their systematic place in a new art. 2, para. 3 and 4 in a new Article. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer of art. 2, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u87	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mestan. You have an unsupported offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal reflects a radically different philosophy on an undoubtedly serious problem. Our proposal is in line with both the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. There can be no collision between public security considerations, public safety, national security and human rights. Therefore, the Strasbourg Court has a rich practice, respect for cultural diversity, ethnic, cultural and religious diversity, but these differences cannot be in conflict with the public interest, the consideration of public safety and national security. And if you are led precisely by these considerations, the most natural thing that needs to be done is to give up all other proposals that do not just stink, but represent a frank act of limiting cultural differences and to accept the approach in which we perfectly responsiblely oblige individuals to reveal their identity when necessary. They must, as every citizen must. And see from the ban an approach in which the citizen is obliged, when requested by officials, to reveal his face in order to establish his identity. What else remains as a consideration related to public safety? What? That's the real liberal approach. Everything else is discrimination. And I am deeply saddened that the final product will be with the complicity of right-wing parties, not only the extreme nationalists, unfortunately, and with the complicity of colleagues in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because their proposals are generally adopted, ergo they are accomplices to what we in the Department of Justice define as a.............................................................. If you're on the subject of national security, here's our proposal. Besides, I think we're almost the end of September today, there's an election campaign coming up on October 6th, a wonderful gift you're giving at the Patriotic Front. [[Applause from PF]] To wave this dark-headed Law as an argument from his campaign for president. That's the truth. And, unfortunately, you're a disgrace to everyone on the right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u89	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate on art. 2. Switching to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we first vote on the proposal of Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak, which the Commission does not support. Vote 109 MPs: for 4, against 91, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on a proposal from Mr Mestan and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 110 MPs voted: 4 against 95, 11 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, we are voting on a text of the importer for art. 2, proposed by the Commission for rejection. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 111, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u90	Under art. 3 A proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Husein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva art. Three down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. Three down. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The order of Art. 2, para.1 shall not apply: 1. if the wearing of the clothing is necessary: (a) for health reasons; (b) of the nature of the profession employed; (c) in the context of sports, cultural, educational or similar events, where carried by the participants in them and of a temporary nature; 2. in the prayer homes of registered faiths; 3. where otherwise established by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u91	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. Ladies and gentlemen, we first vote on proposals from the Parliamentary Representative Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, as well as from the National Representative Chetin Kazak, who are identical and are not supported by the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 3 against 95 abstentions 12. The proposals have not been accepted. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the text of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission for art. 3. They voted 103 MPs: for 101, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u92	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Clothes covering or hiding the face shall be thick or translucent clothes, covers, capes, open mesh boards, masks or other similar elements which cover the face partially or fully. (2) The person shall be partly disguised when wearing clothing with which the mouth, nose or eyes are closed. (3) The person is hidden completely in the wearing of clothing for the complete closure of the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u93	Thank you. Statements on the Commission proposal to create a new art. Four? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the Commission's proposal for a new article. 4. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u94	Under art. 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva Four down. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Chetin Kazak. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and the group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words of their personal documents and the words of the documents for temporary or permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be deleted; 2. All over the words the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, the temporary and permanent residents of the Bulgarian territory, foreign nationals or migrants, are replaced by the natural persons. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for art. 4 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u95	Thank you. Statements under art. Four? I won't. Voting mode. Firstly, honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal by Mrs Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 3 against 22, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer not supported by the Commission, in fact we are voting on a proposal from the Commission to reject art. 4. They voted 101 MPs: 95, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u96	The Commission shall propose before art. 5 to create a name: "Chapter 2 " Control and administrative penal provisions ".
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u97	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create Chapter Two, with the name of........................ and administrative criminal provisions.......................................................................... Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to set up Chapter 2 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u98	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 5. Art. 5. The control of compliance with the law is carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u99	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 5 with the corresponding content of the report. Vote art. 5 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Article 5 of the Commission's report with its respective content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u100	Under art. 5 there is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva Five down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. Five down. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and the group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 words................................................................................. 1, para. 2 and para. 3' are replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5 which becomes art. 6: Art. 6. (1) Who, in a public place, wears clothing covering part or concealing completely the person, shall be punished by: 1. fine in the amount of 200 BGN the first infringement; 2. fine of 1500 BGN For any further infringement. (2) If the offenders are officials, the penalty shall be: 1. fine in the amount of 500 lv. the first infringement; 2. fine in the amount of BGN 2000 For any further infringement. (3) The punishment under para. 2 It is also necessary for the instigators and the invaders.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u101	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva, as well as the MP Chetin Kazak. The proposals are the same and are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: 7 against 85 abstentions 9. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: 16 against 11, 74 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 6 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 101 MPs: for 100, against 1, no abstentions. Article 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u102	Under art. 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva Six down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. Six down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 6, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u103	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from the MPs Mestan, Hafuzov and Georgieva, as well as a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Cetin Kazak, who are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 8 against 83, abstention 5. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. Six by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 92, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 6 by importer accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u104	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva 7 down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. 7 down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. The measures to identify infringements shall be drawn up by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u105	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov, Mariana Georgieva and Chetin Kazak. Both proposals are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 3 against 89, abstention 3. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 7 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Article 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u106	Under art. 8 has a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva 8 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev art. 8 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. 8 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Interior or by officials appointed by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u107	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov, Mariana Georgieva, on the one hand, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Alexander Metodiev, second proposal, and third proposal from the National Representative Cetin Kazak. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 3 against 88, abstention 7. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 8 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 1. Article 8 of the Commission report has been adopted. Dear MPs, for another year the Bulgarian Parliament will host the ceremony for the service of the civil prize of the European Parliament. This year's winners of the prestigious award are Ms. Mariana Pencheva a teacher from Veliko Tarnovo, and Mr. Ivan Nikolov Director of the Cultural Information Center in Bosilegrad. They are nominated by Bulgarian MEPs Andrey Kovachev and Georgi Pirinski. Dear colleagues, today these worthy Bulgarians are our guests and are located in the hall. You can see them. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] In a moment they will be honoured with the honorary awards in the Northern lobby. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. Moving on, Mr. Velchev. Nine by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u108	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva Nine down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak............................................................................................. Nine down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u109	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva, also the proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak, are identical. They are not supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: for 4, against 87, abstention 7. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 9 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Article 9 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u110	Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: "Additional provisions" section is added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal under § 1, item 1. 2 which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 4, para. 1 and the rest of the offer is withdrawn. "Transitional and enforcement provisions." Proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u111	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the name of the subdivision. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject the name of the subdivision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u112	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u113	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 1. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u114	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov and Alexander Metodiev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In the Transitional and Final Provisions § 1 shall be renumbered and shall become § 3 with the following content: § 3. A new article is created in the Penal Code. 162a with the following content: Art. 162a. (1) Whoever, through the use of a threat, violence, coercion or authority, or by the promise of giving or giving a material benefit, compels or induces another person, by reason of his gender or any other characteristic, to wear clothing and/or a cover covering part or concealing entirely the person, shall be punished by imprisonment from one to four years and by fine from five thousand to ten thousand levs, and by public reprimandment. (2) If any of the acts under para. 1 are carried out in respect of a minor, the penalty is imprisonment for two years and a fine from ten thousand leva to 20 thousand leva, and if the injured minors are two or more, the penalty is imprisonment for three to six years, when extradition is impossible. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u115	Yes, thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u116	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We withdraw the proposal we have made for a change to the Penal Code. It will be tabled in due order and will be seen as a separate proposal, as we believe that such criminal provisions should actually exist. Another point is that we accept the motive of our colleagues from the Commission that this Law should not amend a law fundamental to criminal law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u117	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 5, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 has been accepted. There's one more suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u118	Proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u119	With this, the Bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u120	Allow me, Mr President, to thank the Commission's team, the Legal Committee, all colleagues who participated in the discussion [[Applause from GERB and PF]] , to colleagues from the Patriotic Front for Understanding, because I think we have made a very good Law, which concerns I would like to stress on this thing the security of our children, the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. We're done with the bill of second votes. It's 10:45 p.m. At 11:15 p.m., we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u122	Good afternoon, Members of the House! Good afternoon, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 16 September 2016: a question was asked by the MP Slavi Binev to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the policy for protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens in the UK after Brexit. The reply should be made in writing by 7 October 2016. Written answers from: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Willi Lilkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Agriculture Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on two questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Kornelia Ninova and Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on eight issues from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov. We continue with parliamentary control the first question is... [[Heckling]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, the President of the Parliamentary Group, the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u123	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Especially four MPs from GERB! Recently, all public attention has been focused on the failure of the Bulgarian government in foreign policy. It is done outside Bulgaria, we have to, and the Prime Minister does not stand up for national interests. Mr. Borisov is proud that the European Commission has given us 160 million for refugees, but, I quote, according to the European Commission spokesman: a part of these funds will be used to build asylums for migrants. Worse! The Chairman of the Association of Municipalities Ginka Chavdarova said that municipalities are tasked with making new commitments in the interests of refugees for permanent settlement in Bulgaria on a family principle and to find suitable homes, kindergartens, schools for children, enrollment with a personal doctor, registration in the structure of the Social Assistance and Employment Agency. The exchange of Irina Bokova with Kristalina Georgieva embarrassed Bulgaria in front of the world. This is a foreign decision, and the Bulgarian government carried it out unbiasedly. That is why we have started consultations on a vote of mistrust and on the reactions of the parliamentary groups we will find out who is part of this policy and who is it for Bulgaria to defend national sovereignty, to have an independent and character foreign policy. However, in these problems, we forgot to talk about others who have become ill for Bulgarian citizens and are extremely important to us. These are economics and jobs, education, health care, poverty and income. What's going on? You've conducted an educational reform. What's the score? First graders don't have a letter, parents disappear, seventh graders will learn in the same year the material of two because of a clerical error, material for a whole school year is missing in the program of today's sixth graders, professional high schools are about to close because you transferred them to municipalities and they have no money to support them. Health reform. The result is 4 per cent of the population falls below the poverty threshold due to personal health payments, waiting lists in hospitals have increased, hospitals have more than 500 million. lv. obligations. Retirement reform. The NSI report will continue to decrease but will also reduce the people who pay insurance. For this reason, and because of the higher pension costs, state social security will continue to be on deficit. Work, production and income. There are no new proceedings. There are also no new permanent jobs, but there are 16 billion debt, i.e. 30% of each 100 BGN. made of Bulgarian, 30 are no longer his. He must pay the government's debts. New wineries plus BGN 31 to every person. The weekend tax is no one knows how much he'll pay extra. A new tax on taxi drivers, and as of January 1st, you are betting higher insurance and new excise duties on cigarettes. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. New 100,000 people have fallen into severe material deprivation. The scissors were opened between the poor and the rich. In 2015 compared to 2013, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With nearly 1% is the difference between the poorest and the richest. An increase, of course, means the poor are getting poorer and the rich are getting richer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u124	Oresharsky beat them to the punch.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u125	I will talk about judicial reform at the end, because it will be about corruption. So, on this background of external failure, of internal misery, what are you doing? You sell, but through scams and thefts. You sold the royal estate for 90 leva. of sq. M, Diplomatic Club of the two youngsters, 7000 sq. m. I will now introduce you to another case, but this time not to reformist ministers, but to GERB ministers. And there's just no qualification for what I'm about to tell you. Because that's the bottom! You don't have enough of the big deal and theft, so you're stealing from the kids' food! It's about the school fruit and school milk programmes. And these are not compromises, Mr. Borisov, wherever you are, who you over-insured against a compromise war by the opposition. These are facts and documents. They're the following, colleagues. In one hand I hold the State Commission for Stock Exchanges and Trade Exchanges prices, official and medium-sized for Bulgaria in the markets. [[Showing materials.]] In his other hand, the invoices of companies that deliver fruits, vegetables and milk to children in school. [[Shows other documents.]] What's the difference? Apples in the markets; pears of the markets - BGN 3,80 and at school - BGN 6.46; Kiwi on the market.........................................................................................................; Oranges on the market; carrots on the market - BGN 1,00, at school - BGN 6,44; Cheese on the market; cheese on the market s 5.30 BGN, at school. 12,00 BGN Don't go any further. I will only ask my colleagues to distribute all the documents, facts, invoices to the journalists so that they can get to know them very closely. We have questions. Who's allowing this thing? The Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Taneva must exercise control. Who allowed these companies at these prices to deliver to the children?! Who dares to hit the bottom so far as to steal from the children's breakfast?! You don't have everything else you've ruined the country with, but you've got to eat the baby food! I'm ending up with an election coming up after all. [[Reply of the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] We suggest how many of you are here? 3, 4, 5 people from GERB [[Applause from BLL LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u126	That's more like it for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u127	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB a statement. The People's Representative Georg Georgiev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! As the saying goes, it's a long time no. I don't know how it is in Russian, but it's been a long time since we've seen each other. [[Reply of National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] We see that with the election coming up, you should have actually started with this, that the elections are coming up, not ending, because we see the boards starting to rain as soon as the election day approaches. Anyway, nothing new about BSP. I'm going to start by order of the lies that have been told because honest lies have been told here. These 160 million, which were granted to Bulgaria thanks to the government-led policy, have absolutely nothing to do with the construction of camps or any facilities for the accommodation of migrants in Bulgaria. It's a lie that you not only run that you support and play with people's fear. This is no longer about your own powerlessness, your own eating policy. Here it is that you are trying to scare the Bulgarian citizens that new migrants and refugees will be settled on the territory of the country. No euro will go to build such facilities. This will be constantly reminded and constantly this lie and a new BSP point of support will be refuted. Because it's a definite lie, and those who support it are liars! The economy is the top 5 growth rates in Europe. Decreasing unemployment, given that only a few years ago you left the state in a practical procedure for excessive deficit. You left the state with a bankrupt bank. You left the country with a busted fisk. You have left the state with stopped EU funds once again an art that BSP has mastered to absolute perfection. By the way, in 2007, Geoffrey van Orden, who was monitoring the processes in Bulgaria with regard to Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, defined Bulgaria as a corrupt swamp full of alligators. And right now you have eyes to talk about that there's corruption, that there's unclean deals, that there's backstage! Dear colleagues, who and what time gave birth to the model who? Well, weren't you in Oresharski's office just two years ago?! Was it not you who brought out the Bulgarian citizens with tens of thousands on the streets?! Wasn't it you who were holed up in this parliament and turned it into some kind of bunker?! Well, weren't you the ones who were taking you out on the white bus? Well, weren't you the ones who beat up students on the streets the same young people you're trying to say there were no jobs at the moment? What about these factories that are currently being opened in a number of Bulgarian cities about them? Or maybe they're gone? For BSP, they're not visible. Or maybe it wasn't exactly the GERB government that passed the new Preschool and School Education Act? Or is this not an education reform for you? Maybe education reform is policemen facing students on the streets? Is this the reform of education in your opinion? Is this your commitment to the young Bulgarians who want to stay in Bulgaria with no investments in the economy? In this way you supported the Bulgarian economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u129	Say something about the price of apples!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u130	Please don't call back!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u131	Constantly BSP tries to turn one topic or another into gum for its own narrow party purposes. However, this has been happening lately at the expense of foreign policy, which, honourable Members, has already gone beyond the limits of tolerance. I would just like to remind you that it is precisely and perhaps for this reason that you feel some inferiority, some complex and Mrs. Bokova, by the way, whose candidacy as Director General of UNESCO has been raised precisely by GERB. So if anyone has any merit for its realization on the international stage, it is precisely GERB. When we felt that it had the potential and capacity to take up a corresponding post, we worked with all our strength and resources. Now that Bulgaria depends not only on the chance of the state, but also on the chance of Eastern Europe, when we have the opportunity to realize a person in the highest international post, you are trying to ruin it. That's what BSP does all the time. Dear colleagues, you have no right in any way to deal with a subject in which you are absolutely, proven weak. BSP's biggest foreign policy success was a restaurant in Vietnam. If you think that in any way you have contributed to the development of international relations and Bulgarian diplomacy with this, you are very cruelly mistaken. I believe that it has been repeatedly appreciated when Bulgaria has always been in very severe political and foreign political isolation during the managements of BSP. It is no secret to anyone, including our foreign policy partners, that BSP is incapable of making politics. As does the internal saurus, through schemes, through lies, through speculation, thus trying to make foreign policy. But if inside this can be explained in any way by your lack of capacity, the resource to lead a forward-looking policy, it's a little more difficult out there. In diplomacy, we must be consistent, we must be sustainable in those we defend. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] That is why the GERB government, by the way, confirmed Mrs. Bokova's candidacy in 2014, although the Oresharski cabinet broadcast it in the conditions of actual resignation. Then you put the cabinet Borisov 2 in the finished fact. Then the hysteria was similar too, if you remember, but nevertheless we said: yes, in our foreign policy we must be consistent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u132	Because you're consistent, that's why you changed it. [[Radio, lines and shouts by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u133	And we reaffirmed this application, which was still inconclusive at the time. Now that Bulgaria has stabilized, when the funds have returned, when Bulgaria is once again respected on the international stage [[crowd cheering and shouting from BSP]] , when Bulgaria is no longer just a factor, but also a leader in international relations [[crowd cheering, laughing]] You must be silent and stop with all the lies, with all the speculation, with everything you do, because it is your behavior that destroys the image of Bulgaria. You're doing it systematically. Stop! You are MPs and you are responsible to this people. Stop embarrassing the state! There's nothing you can do to help, at least stay out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] On behalf of a group, I will not give you a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u135	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u136	Because the entire BSP membership table could have been insulted. Sorry, I won't give you my word. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take procedure in the manner of conduct and it concerns the following. I was extremely worried about what Mrs. Ninova gave me, especially when it comes to children. Because I'm still an active journalist, I took the liberty of going as a journalist to request the information. It's good to know what the information is, because I was worried sick. Mrs. Ninova gave invoices. The first invoice is worth the tax base 458 BGN. The second invoice is worth 327 BGN, the third one worth 324 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u138	What do you want from me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u139	It's about, uh, Mr. Chairman, retail. This isn't even about a crime. 93 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, you can read it. In other words, the index reference is for wholesale prices. These invoices do not specify whether transport costs are included, what delivery is. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] That is, when it comes to children, do not let yourself speculate with children about some modest two or three pounds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u140	What was I supposed to do, anyway?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u141	This was my procedure in the manner of keeping: when waving documents, let's read what is written in these documents. You can't do it at £300. to claim a crime committed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u142	This is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. There's no way I'm interfering with those declarations. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u143	You can't interfere, but you can summon to read the data.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u144	This is a question of the speaker and of the parliamentary group what they will present. You're welcome, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u145	I understand that the Patriotic Front is part of the government, that they will not be separated from them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u146	Please, to me, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u147	Why do you let him say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u148	According to him, I shouldn't have let you either, but I let you talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u149	I understand they won't support a vote of no confidence, but it's a elementary level to demonstrate... Three invoices of 300 leva. Colleague, if you're not literate, let me tell you. We're talking about one program for 16 million and the other program for 14. These are examples, whether there is transport or not, the prosecution will rule, not you. So much for your note. As for the colleague from GERB, who called the liars.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u150	Please, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u151	In that sense, I want a personal explanation. Two thirds of what he said didn't deserve any attention. The people can determine what level we are at. [[Reply from the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] But three things I want to say. The unstable fisk during the socialist time and the stable now, honourable Bulgarians, cost you 16 billion. lv. on your back. [[GERB lines.]] They stole not only your present, they steal from your future, because that 16 billion is the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u152	Mrs. Ninova, you're going to force me to take your word for it. In the manner of conduct, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u153	Tens of thousands on the streets of our government. For the first time in the history of Bulgaria Bulgarians are burning. Over 20 Bulgarians set themselves on fire.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u154	This is not the way to lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u155	As to whether we should trust the words of Georg Georgiev or the spokesperson of the European Commission, we prefer the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u156	Thank you. We get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u157	They said this money was for refugees. You know, colleagues, not just around Yambol, since yesterday and near Samokov, you're going around the barracks to put them there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u158	Mrs. Ninova, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u159	I'm a deputy from Samokov, we won't let you do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u160	Thank you. [[National Representative Georg Georgiev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] I can't give you the floor for a personal explanation. I'm sorry! Is there anyone else in the way of conduct? If anyone deviates from the procedure in the manner of conduct, I immediately take his word away. Keep in mind. [[National Representative Georg Georgiev continues to ask for the floor.]] The manner of conduct is procedure. Let me not explain to you that there is no way I can give you a personal explanation when it comes to procedure. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking really a procedure in the manner of conduct and you will understand that this is an accusation to you. You've listened to the pasquil that's been read here for six minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u162	He's not reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u163	Sorry, fantasized for six minutes. Thanks for the fix. You didn't even intervene at the moment when the word was used, liars, something which, in my opinion, is your duty to make a remark about disrespectful treatment of MPs. The second thing I cannot miss is when the honourable MP from the Patriotic Front came out to read statistics and invoices, misleading the National Assembly in the form of small matters, you did not stop it at all. You let him talk to the end. His statement had nothing to do with the manner of conduct, nothing he accused you of, but you didn't interrupt it. However, when Mrs. Ninova became interested in these matters, you took the liberty of interfering several times. You even took the liberty of saying that you would take her word away. In my opinion, the fact that you are the first among equals gives you no reason to do the rest uneven when they come out on this stage. Please be strict and do not let colleagues from GERB turn this tribune into a circus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Ninova speaks exactly two words. I didn't take her word away, I was just trying to point her out which procedure to use. I didn't understand what you called pasquil, which was scratched out of the stands? In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u165	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I note that it must not be allowed for one or another Member of the National Assembly to mislead the entire Assembly. What was read were documents presented by themselves. Nothing else or different has been brought to the attention. Secondly, when lies are told from this tribune, it is quite possible and they must be condemned and qualified in order that there is absolutely no continuation of speculation. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Thirdly, I would say that we must respect what one or another MP is doing correctly. I haven't read. I told the honourable BSP colleagues that just the way they make politics is not who it should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u166	Tell me what you have on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u167	Please pay attention to them when trying to play with parliamentary rules, procedures, not to do so and not to turn the National Assembly into a circus, as is their own policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u168	You're insulting me again! Note! Note! We want Tsetska back! We want Tsetska back!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u169	Are there any more procedures? We're moving on to parliamentary control. The first question is to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. She will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov... [[People representatives from BSP LB and Dimitar Bajraktarov exchange lines.]] Please order in the court! ...about the lack of political will to settle Bulgaria's relations with the United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov. Please order in the court! [[The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov goes to MPs from BSP LB. It's a line exchange. Shows invoices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u170	I'm not gonna start until you ruin the seat over there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u171	Order, please! The Quaestors, please provide order in the court! Dear colleagues, take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u172	Send the Quaestors to kick Bayraktarov out of there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u173	Mr. Bayraktarov, please take your seat. Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm making a note that you are disturbing the order of this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u174	Get them out of the room. If I had, I would have taken them out of the courtroom. [[People representatives from BSP LB and the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov continue to exchange lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u175	Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Ermenkov... Please order in the court! You have the floor, Professor. Stanilov. [[People representatives from BSP LB and the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov continue to exchange lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u176	Bajraktarov, get Mrs. Ninova out here to work things out like men.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u177	Please order in the court! You have the floor, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u178	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! During the previous plenary session, we debated with you about the danger for the first time in 60 years that Bulgarian scientists could not work at the International United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna. Then together we found that due to artificially created administrative chaos, Bulgaria's membership imports were removed from the 2016 budget of our nuclear regulator. The Nuclear Regulatory Agency, which has traditionally paid for it over the years, but has not been included in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science (MON), which, by the idea of the Finance Minister, must pay off all the funds related to scientific activity. You expressed the political will that I quote you: Our participation in Dubna is a necessary tool and cannot be replaced by Bulgaria's participation in CERN and you have assured that you are looking for a way to provide the necessary funds. Then you self-critically admitted that the political intention should also find a budget response. The current inspection that I have done shows that despite the billion overruns of revenue, a budget response has not yet been found on the political application for the need for Bulgarian participation in Dubna. In this regard, I ask you to answer: is there a political will supported by budgetary instruments to prevent the interruption of the work of Bulgarian scientists at the International United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u179	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mrs. Kuneva, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stanilov! We remember well that during the previous plenary session a serious parliamentary debate was held on the participation of Bulgarian scientists in the scientific programme of the United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna. I assure you that the Ministry of Education and Science carried out a detailed analysis of the benefits and effects for Bulgaria from its membership in the United Institute for Nuclear Research. The analysis takes into account the added benefits for science and shows that you will probably agree that Bulgaria's membership has an important role and contribution to the development of Bulgarian science, technology, the preparation of scientific staff and the maintenance of the standard work of Bulgarian specialists at global level in the field of nuclear physics. At the same time, a number of meetings were held with the scientific community and stakeholders. This is something that I stress every time, no matter what particular occasion you ask me and I am very fond of it. As a result of the meetings held and the analysis carried out, the short answer to your question would be: Yes, there is political will. "As for the instruments, there is a way: the determination of a national coordinator is done by an act of the Council of Ministers. This is a decision of the Council of Ministers. It will achieve the following. As Minister of Education and Science, I will become a national coordinator for Bulgaria's membership in the United Institute for Nuclear Research, an interdepartmental working group will be established with the participation of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior. This working group will carry out the overall coordination in relation to Bulgaria's participation, including monitoring, and an analysis every six months how much we have invested, how much it has returned to us. In order to be able to financially ensure that membership is maintained, the necessary funds need to be allocated target this year. This can happen with another act of the Council of Ministers......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As of next year, we will insist that the funds for membership imports will be provided for annually in the budget of the Ministry of Education with the State Budget Act, which I hope this plenary will vote on. In the Council of Ministers we will very soon submit a joint report on the two acts, which was the second act, which I cited, so that funds and a decision of the Council of Ministers can be provided to create the working group with the participation of those departments which I have listed. Of course, once the interagency coordination procedure is completed first, so that we are expected to have a solution to a situation in the first half of October. I think within 14 days I will be able to tell you what the collective decision of the Council of Ministers is. On the part of the Ministry of Education and Science, we have done all the steps and all the necessary consultations so that we can find a solution on this issue. A proposal has been made on our part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u182	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, last Friday at parliamentary control of a question to counterpart Velizar Enchev, Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, replied that there is money for this and that a proposal should simply be submitted to the Council of Ministers to give the amount by the Ministry of Finance. From what you told me, I understood everything. These intentions are excellent and everything will be fine, only that I did not understand there are deadlines for making this contribution, we are starting to miss out, it seems that the date has already passed, has such a proposal been submitted to the Council of Ministers, or, if it has not been submitted, when will it be submitted, since there is no longer any time? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u183	Thank you. You're welcome to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u184	Professor Stanilov, the Council of Ministers is working on its own rules. These regulations explicitly state that there must be a coherent material to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The consent procedure shall be at least 14 days. When this procedure is completed, of course, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is the most important and before we begin such a procedure at all, so I told you that we have made numerous meetings so that the Ministry of Finance can give a positive opinion on the basis of our arguments relating to the benefit of the work at this institute, and only then can we proceed to the examination of the act at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. It's a procedure. I can't make it any shorter than what the Council of Ministers requires. I assure you that everything that has been done so far has been done with the enormous efforts of the Ministry of Education and Science and with the help of the other colleagues of the Council of Ministers. We're in procedure right now. I told you that within two weeks, by mid-October, I hope we have an act of the Council of Ministers. Making the agenda of the Council of Ministers is also a complex task that requires balance, time and all opinions available. A ministry to delay its position, the procedure is postponed until we have it. I assure you that we are not losing our attention to this important issue for our science, and we will have it within the middle of October. In particular, I have not yet been able to answer you for two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u185	We move on to the next question, which will be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Kuneva. He is from the National Representative Yavor Haytov on schools in the municipality of Roman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a question that may sound small, perhaps a little exotic against the background of everything that is spoken from this platform, but in our country there are children who are weak and risking health and life because of some yellow buses. In my constituency, there is a semi-mountain municipality and this is the municipality of Roman, who is proud to be among the first in Bulgaria to implement optimization of their school network. Besides the protected school in the village of Kameno pole, there are only schools in the city. On a daily basis, hundreds of children from the first to the twelfth grade spend several hours of their lives on the road. And do you know what roads?! Strongly said roads, rather dug up by floods and carried away by landslides narrow and unsupported crossroads. Can we help them because these are Bulgarian children, whom we also place our hopes on the future of our country? We can at least get them a little more comfortable vehicles. For years the municipality of Roman has been asking the Ministry of Education and Science, I stress, for years before you were Minister of Education and Science, for two more school buses, but, unfortunately, ineffective. Available from the first batch, from the dawn of school reform. They have skipped more than a 10-year warranty, constantly breaking down, repairing and very difficult to carry the children. Essentially my question, Madam Minister. Please answer me: when will you accept with the necessary concern and responsibility the problems of this small municipality and will provide at least two new ones, as we, yellow buses for school transport, are used to seeing them? Be assured that with this little gesture you will earn your gratitude to the hundreds of children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u187	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. You have the floor, Madam Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, I will answer directly to your question when I will take with concern the problems of the children of this small municipality. I want to tell you that this is what I am doing from the first moment with the right amount of concern for all Bulgarian students from the moment you voted me as Minister of Education and Science in this House. There are no small questions in education. However small the municipality is, however few the children, as you said, are our Bulgarian children. I understand perfectly the importance a school bus can have for the lives of families, children. I assure you of that. Regarding the particular municipality you are asking me about, I would remind you that in the period 2005 to 2009, the Ministry transferred ownership over three school buses. This reference that I have for each locality is probably you quoting yourself by saying that they are very old. It is really about this period. Unfortunately, we have to admit that between 2009 and 2014, the Ministry has not purchased any school bus. Not one for the whole country! Since 2014, the Ministry of Education and Science has renewed the practice of buying school buses by providing them to municipalities under a national programme on which municipalities apply. I would like you to note that in 2014, the purchased buses were 60 and the submitted applications were over 600. It is obvious that even with the best wishes of the Ministry of Education and Science only one tenth of all requests can be met. However, let me tell you how the situation is, since I am a minister. However, every minister is responsible for the policy under his mandate and how he makes the priorities at all is not easy and I understand the colleagues who were before me. In 2016, the Ministry of Education and Science signed contracts for the delivery of 138 school buses, and from 2005 to 2009, for the first time we have a larger quantity. As I told you earlier, for all these years, otherwise it was the biggest year of 2014. In the case of no purchase of buses since 2009, 60. On 2 August 2016, literally last month, by my order, I formed a committee to analyse requests for school buses that have been admitted to the Ministry since 2014 and to examine the extent to which they have been satisfied. I am not for a reason stressing 2014 because the Commission will also consider unsatisfied requests, including the municipality of Roman. By 15 October, the Commission will examine all requests and propose how to distribute the purchased school buses. We have established rules and specific criteria on which the proposal will be based. The National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria is also represented in the Commission. You understand that I will be very careful whenever it comes to the distribution of public goods, in general, whether it be financial or tangible assets. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So at this point in the next two weeks, we are going to take on this very, very difficult task. Whether this particular request will be satisfied, I will tell you after the Commission has decided and appealed to have the patience of the Commission to say what it thinks. It is indeed a difficult task of the Ministry of Education and Science, because the situation has almost a dramatic burden on a few buses, many municipalities and distinct needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u189	Here you are, Mr. Haytov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stressed, Madam Vice-President, that this problem stood long before the time when you made the commitment as Minister of Education and Science and said so with all responsibility. I've been critical of you many times, with opposition behavior, but in this case it would really be extremely populist to accuse and accuse you of something that hasn't been done long back. In fact, with your speech and your response here today and now you have produced news and it is that on October 15th.. only after a little more than two weeks, there is a chance, there is a chance that Roman Municipality will receive at least one, and, God forbid, and two new yellow buses for the children of this municipality. You are put in a difficult position when they want 600 buses, so that you can distribute 60 of what you mentioned, but I also want you to understand us as MPs. I'm at a community meeting tonight in the village of Blue Burdo, Roman Municipality, where there are partial elections for mayor of this settlement, and there people will ask me as their MP: Do you know how our children get to school? Very often they are even absent, skipping classes and cannot be represented as the children in the larger cities are presented. So I ask you very much to allow me, on your behalf, to make a commitment that in mid-October in Roman Municipality for the children of the municipality, for our children, as we agreed, there will be at least one, and, God forbid, and two new buses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u191	Thank you. Madam Minister, please respond. Mr. Haytov almost promised on your behalf the buses. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u192	Mr. Haytov, I would like to sincerely ask you to wait for the Commission's decision. As we all know, in politics, creating expectations that you can't meet afterwards is cynical.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u193	And practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u194	And please don't do that. I said, 138 buses will be allocated. I'm sure at least half the MPs can say the words you said. There are therefore representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Commission. Believe me, if we had 900 buses, it would be a lot easier for me. We will follow the rules, I will count on the Commission to do the best possible work, and I will be able for any one of you who is interested to present what the Commission has decided and why it has chosen one city or another locality. I know what Roman is about, I have a direct idea of the situation there. Let's let the Commission do its job. Please don't create expectations. If things are right, I will give you information about this, you will be the first to tell your colleagues and friends that the government has done the work thanks to the strong insistence and criticism that you are exhibiting. But wait, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u195	Thank you. The questions have been completed with the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Kuneva. We are moving on to questions that will be asked Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. It is a matter of MP Vili Lilkov on the policy of the government for targeted support for the development of Northwestern Bulgaria. You're welcome to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u196	Is this program still up to date?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, this is a question that relates to serious political expectations that were created more than three years ago among the citizens of Northwestern Bulgaria and this is another question I ask to ministers in order to get a final and clear answer. Dear Mr. Donchev, the Program of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2014 - 2018 provides Priority 13/1 for overcoming the economic backwardness of individual regions in the country. In this regard, the development of a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, Rhodopes and other border mountain and semi-mountain regions has started since May 2015. It is about one territory of the country, which covers about 34% of the entire territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. There were dozens of meetings, discussions at different levels with the participation of politicians, representatives of different ministries, experts, mayors and municipal councilors, many MPs took part in the development of this Programme. The program was prepared in November 2015 and was presented and adopted by the Ministry of Regional Development of Bulgaria. So far, however, the Programme has not been adopted by the Council of Ministers. No target funding is set in the 2016 budget for its implementation, although the Programme is intended to start with funding from the state budget, municipal budgets and private sector on the basis of public-private partnerships. In addition, the Programme provides for measures which necessarily require serious legislative changes, which imply further delays in its implementation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Within the parliamentary control of a question addressed to Minister Goranov for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the programme in question, I received a reply that it will not give the expected results. This is decisively worrying because the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is key to the start of the programs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u198	What's the actual question?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u199	In this regard, I ask the following question: What will you take to speed up the adoption of a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, Rhodopes and other border, mountain and semi-mountain areas to begin its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u200	Please, Mr. Donchev, answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u201	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Lilkov, you had the opportunity a week or two ago on the same subject to ask the Minister of Finance and were so correct to quote his opinion. There are several essential issues regarding the Programme. To the question whether there will be such a Program, the simple answer is.................................................................................... The more important issues are also: what part of the Programme will be reflected in Budget 2017? That depends on the speed at which the program is working. Here is the third question: what needs to be further worked in the Programme, given the very clear opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which, by the way, I agree with? The first recital is that a programme based rather and solely on infrastructure sites will not produce the necessary results. I'm not saying that there should be no infrastructure sites in it, on the contrary, but it should be based on another type of interventions, on another type of projects that are currently, I don't know if this is news to you, are being developed. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy there is an accelerated planning of measures that will soon be on the market, funded both by the state budget and by the European Social Fund through the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and mainly related to human capital and the quality of the workforce. We have the ambition that all infrastructure measures, much of which will be preserved, will be combined with others related to business environment development and, above all, human capital interventions. No one can question the existence and necessity of the Programme, not only because it is written as part of the management programme. In view of the regional differences, the difference between the gross domestic product per capita of Sofia and in many of the districts of Northwestern Bulgaria, we see a difference of the order of five, even nearly six times. If we are to be fully correct, if you compare the data with Kyustendil, Silistra and Pazardzhik, you will see that they are not very different. And here the essential question is: should the Programme be expanded as a geographical scope? But what is definite is that it cannot be based solely on infrastructure intervention. Another point is that a large part of the projects submitted by local authorities also reflect the desire of the mayors of municipal councils and the local community are not assessed as such that would lead to a change in the economic situation or in the demographic situation. A very separate issue is that much of the projects are called professional slang, immature. In other words, they still need an analysis of the costs of design benefits, the establishment of property rights processes that you know well that even in the case of maximum mobilization it takes years. However, the work on the implementation of the targeted Programme has not been interrupted. Criteria for selecting projects to be financed are currently being developed to ensure maximum impact [[the President signals that time has run out]] , as well as analyzing the possibilities, what I mentioned just now, about the development and implementation of the so-called projects, including measures both in the field of infrastructure and in the area of human capital.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u202	Mr. Lilkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I have been dealing with this issue for a long time, I can say that the government has just admitted through you a complete failure in two-year efforts to implement a priority adopted by the National Assembly, namely for targeted support of the backward regions in Bulgaria. This Programme has been under operation since 2014. I do not agree that, since I know her well, only infrastructure measures are in place. On the contrary, this was one of the tasks with which I think the Ministry of Regional Development did well because it was attended by representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and municipalities and so on and so forth. What I see, Mr. Donchev, excuse me, but I will say it directly: for the Northwest and especially for the Vidin region absolutely nothing has been done in these years, and on the contrary only expectations were pumped and there is no fulfillment! On 10 July 2015, you said the same things in response to a question by a Member of the National Assembly. Moreover, you promised that under the Transport Programme a priority for the government is the modernization of the railway line Vidin Medkovets. The Ministry of Transport gave up on 16 February this year with a bang. The transport minister promised concessionation of the river station, concession of the port in Vidin, promised the Intermodal terminal Therefore, even in infrastructure measures nothing has been done! More than that. You promised in response to a Member of the National Assembly that: "I will note that we are not talking about another strategy. We're talking about a targeted investment support programme for the Northwest. We will be able to present to everyone, including why not the National Assembly, a first version of the document in the autumn of this year, not the late autumn. A supplement from me is the year 2015. It's been a year and a half since that and more, but nothing has been done! Complete failure in terms of targeted support policy for the Northwest. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I ask you very much: submit this program, no matter what version it is, to be able to be voted by the National Assembly, because I say that legal changes are necessary and necessary. If you do not do so within a month, this program and this priority will definitely not be implemented. The promises, as the other Deputy Prime Minister said before me Mrs. Kuneva, to create political expectations that you are not ready and cannot fulfil, are really cynical! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u204	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u205	You have the floor, Mr. Donchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u206	Dear Mr. Lilkov, despite the way you speak to me, I will try to preserve the sensible and calm tone. I'll just point out that a serious man like you, a professor, doesn't suit to talk like that. First, planning quality measures, not wasting money takes time, especially when there is an inter-agency dispute. However, it is good because it contributes to the better quality of the programme and the measures that will be implemented. Secondly, you absolutely misquoted the case with Corridor No 4, especially in its railway section and the connection between Sofia... Vidin and the Fund Connected Europe........................................................................................ The Minister of Transport was so good at explaining in detail what funds can be applied for and what financing can actually be obtained. This is not a matter of desire or unwillingness of the Ministry, but a matter of reality................................................................................................. The answer is they can't. I remind those who are not aware that the price of the entire segment between Sofia and Vidin is 2.5 billion. Euros. This will not be financed in full by the Fund Connected Europe. Thirdly, congratulations that the marks in such details and the quality of the developed programme and the concrete measures. I believe you followed them. With or without a programme adopted by the National Assembly, the government at every budgetary opportunity makes efforts to assist the regions mainly in the face of municipalities with additional investments, some of them are also part of the same programme, through exceptional subsidies for capital expenditure. It does so even without an approved programme, as long as the budget's ability to allow it. It is another matter that the programme as a comprehensive, integrated document with clear objectives, especially with indicators must be as good and realistic as possible. As we talk to you: what to cut the program, what to have in it and when to accept it, good conversation is in three or four years, no matter what quality I or you have a conversation about whether or not any of the indicators of the program is implemented. This is how we work on the highest standards typical of operational programmes. When we have a conversation about the programme, we should have the other conversation: without an approved programme, are the necessary or sufficient efforts to develop the backward areas, not only for the Northwest, but also for the North? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If I may, Mr. Chairman, one addition to what I just said. If investment in heavy infrastructure in the south had a strong effect, it was for the simple reason that there the state of both the workforce and the business environment was very different. There, on the basis of investment in infrastructure alone, the result was strong. This is evident "The region of Plovdiv," the region of Stara Zagora. The analysis of all experts shows that if interventions in the Northwest are based solely on infrastructure or mainly on infrastructure, they will not have the same effect, categorically! They must be combined with other measures of the type I described earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u207	Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the ongoing implementation of the operational programmes for the programming period 2014-2020. Such a question is also available from the National Representative Ayhan Etem: concerning the delay of euro funds under operational programmes from the European funds. Questions will be asked consistently, the answer will be common. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Donchev, two, even a third year after the start of the new programming period, the funds paid under the operational programs are only 4.01 per cent to date on official information from ISU (Information System for Management and Monitoring of EU Funds in Bulgaria). Under Operational Programme "Transport and transport infrastructure" with a very serious budget, nearly 3 billion. 500 million. BGN, there is a relatively good negotiation of 1 billion. 280 million. BGN, but, unfortunately, there are about 220 million funds paid there. lv. or 6.33%. It could be better. Under the Operational Programme of the Environment, on the first major axis of water infrastructure, to say in general, the negotiation is in very modest parameters. On the second axis, there is unfortunately no negotiation. That's the picture on all three operational programs. By the way, references are available and available. Anyone could see in particular the numbers and parameters that I don't want to specify in detail here. One thing is clear: the agreement is seriously delayed and the payment of all operational programmes is only 660 million. lv. or in percentages, as I have already indicated, represent 4.01 per cent. In this regard, my questions to you are: what is the result of the weak results in the negotiation and payment of operational programmes after the start of the new programming period? What is the state of the Rural Development Programme and are these systemic problems observed in operational programmes? What measures will be taken to improve the management processes of the European funds and to increase the levels of negotiation and payment under the programmes? Is there a risk of losing money on the programs because of the poor absorption? If so, what are the expected losses? Is there any way to make sure that doesn't happen? We sincerely hope that this is not the case and that we do not lose money, but that it will be absorbed in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u209	The theme is even to ask. Mr. Donchev, please wait for the other question from Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u210	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! My question is identical to that of colleague Jevdet Chakarov. It was set at the beginning of September, but I hope that today you can inform the whole Bulgarian society what is happening to the EU funds, what are the prospects and what is the reason for this delay. I make the agreement that our goal is not to measure our EU funds, but to show that the process of absorption itself goes through several stages of planning, programming, contracting, implementation, reporting and so on. According to data on the implementation of the operational programs in Bulgaria under ISU, as Mr. Chakarov said, this performance is less than 4%.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u211	It's more than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u212	This is a serious delay in the implementation of the European programmes and, in my opinion, it is rather worrying. Some programs, such as the Environment, the Regions in growth, Science and education, are also lagging behind. In this regard, my questions to you are: what are the specific measures that the government will take to speed up the absorption of funds under operational programmes? What are the reasons for the delay? Are there any risks already for losing euro funds, because we, as well as the previous said, are falling behind that we have to face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u213	Thank you, Mr. Etem. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have six minutes as the answer is common for two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u214	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Etem, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, a terminological clarification. Before we talk about falling behind, I have no right to ask you a question, I would like to understand: we are falling behind on whom or what? If you claim that we fall behind in relation to other Member States, that is false. At present, the Commission does not publish data on processed interim payments, publishes only on the number, i.e. accurate analysis is not possible. But in any case, Bulgaria is moving in the worst case in the middle of the number of processed interim payments. If you compare the number of accredited programmes with other Member States, you will find that Bulgaria is in the number of accredited programmes, which is another indirect indicator that we can compare with other Member States. The other possible comparison is to compare ourselves with ourselves, including the previous programming period, by taking the same reference dates and comparing negotiations and payments. This analysis is also possible and I will allow myself to supply you with some numbers that will finally convince you that the term you are using is incorrect. First of all, I would like to start by saying that so far, only more than 160 procedures have been announced under the operational programmes at a total value of almost 12 billion. lv. At the end of the third year of the current programming period 2014 - 2020, Bulgaria can say that it has announced more than 73% of the entire budget of the programmes. And what I was commenting on just now is that the data analysis clearly shows that the implementation of the programmes from the current programming period 2014 - 2020 is significantly superior in all indicators the way Bulgaria has managed in the previous programming period. And that's normal. She's been through a lot. But if you pay attention to the categories of difference you will understand that it is not just because of this. The additional resource available in the current programming period is at least 700 million more. For the period 2007-2013, the total agreed funds as of mid-2009, which is two and a half years after the beginning of the programming period, are below 7%. The exact number is 6.69 of the total resource. And by the end of 2009, the negotiation reached 14%. For the 2014-2020 programming period, i.e. the current, up to date, funds of 28,82% have been agreed. You can figure out the difference yourself more than three times. As I am further convinced that by the end of the year the result will be even better and the difference will be more than three times if we compare the same reference periods. Let's pay attention to the payments. The funds actually paid for this programming period also exceed more than twice those of the past period. As of mid-2009, the funds actually paid to the beneficiaries were 0.94%, i.e. less than 1% of the total resource, and by the end of 2009, this percentage reached 2.62%. As you yourself accurately and correctly noted, the payments are currently 4%. I will just note that at the time of asking the question they were just over two, and this is not more than three or four weeks ago, which is indicative of dynamics. The only thing we can comment on behind is my own ambitions. The truth is, I always want more than the whole system and all the governing bodies. And I will continue my efforts in this direction. I am convinced that by the end of the year, an interim result of over 5, even 6%, will be not only reached, but also surpassed, which, if you remember the data just now, will mean a result more than twice as good as the one Bulgaria had before. Yes, there are differences between different operational programmes. In some cases, this is mainly due to the need to fulfil the so-called expediting conditions. A clear example is the water sector, where, until the water reform is completed, we do not invest in the water sector by excluding the so-called "early birds" or previously approved projects launched from the previous programming period. Watching progress in the water sector, this process will end at the end of 2016. I am convinced. By 2017 we will continue with investment in the water sector. Some other preconditions are indeed slowing down some of the measures, but, as I said, they all close in 2016 and in 2017 the process should be going as it should. In parallel, several very important steps have been taken over the past two years. If the subject was not more or less depreciated, I would say reforms. Firstly, the subjugation of the entire process of the so-called EU Funds Act, which rebalances the rights of the system and introduces order. And second of all, the whole electronic process of applying and reporting on projects. Although it took time, although it may have led to a week or two delay in the process, inasmuch as the new rules require time to get used to it, I am convinced that this is the good foundation on which the processes will flow from here on out. Trying to be correct, we commented with you on the numbers regarding operational programs. With regard to the Rural Development Programme on 26 September, the agreed funds are 11.7%, the paid funds are 5.4, which is evident even better than the average result of the operational programmes. Although the data I provided you with is encouraging, allow me to draw attention to something else. In my opinion, it is not that we should not think about the financial results, not that we should not be extremely precise, avoiding any scenario of loss of funds, however, there is neither for 2016, nor for 2017, it is appropriate to carry this conversation to a completely different level. I think Bulgaria has already gained enough experience not to think only about the volumes of payments. The conversation should be another way for us to conduct it... the benefit of any investment. Not only the money invested, but what a result, what benefit each investment made, because the fact is that some of the investments made bring benefits in the order of times. For example, some of the successful facilities in transport infrastructure. And it is an indisputable fact that not all investments or projects can boast with the same effectiveness. And the conversation should be about how each of the approved projects, how each of the approved measures should have such an effect, as well as the best investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u215	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Donchev! Dear Mr. Donchev, we are far from staring at the numbers. We come from exactly the same considerations. I will allow myself to say that I know very well the matter with regard to the water sector and all of us here in the Chamber know both you and Mr. Bozhinov and the colleagues what is needed in the water sector. So we have to make every effort to start the investment process in this sector, because we know how much money is needed, and only 30% of the investment we could realise a part of the European funds that are being allocated to our country. Another thing to tell you is that I have not expressed it for the first time, but now I will express it from the National Assembly's stand: we must have a non-party consensus on European funds so that they can be realized, to invest in the name of improving the quality and standard of all of us in Bulgaria, in the name of all citizens. That's our concern. It came out of the coworker. And I'm expressing it. In view of that, I'm not very satisfied. It is a good thing that we are in the middle of the other Member States of the European Union, but let us not forget that we are the country with the lowest GDP, or otherwise with the lowest gross domestic product. The needs are enormous, and European funds are an opportunity for this to happen through them. The comparison between the previous and the current programming period I do not fully accept. As you have ambition, so do I have ambitions in the name of the country, of all citizens, in the name of improving quality and standard of living to have a serious realization with a view to achieving the respective effectiveness and improving the living conditions in our country. We all know the mistakes that have been made. We have overall positive and negative experience from the previous programming period. Unfortunately, they were late preparing some of the preliminary documents such as water reform and other processes that we had to step on. We need to look at the objective and the real... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman. ...of all these processes so as to accelerate the implementation of European funds under all operational programmes, including the Rural Development Programme. We have a huge need. Once again, I say and stress that this is a serious opportunity that can be much better used. Personally, I would love to be one of the countries that is leading, as are the Baltic countries, with regard to the absorption of EU funds. Why shouldn't we be? In this regard, we really express... My appeal is not only to the current government and the present format of the National Assembly.In terms of the EU funds to have a non-party consensus, clear vision and all to work united in the name of improving the quality of the standard of all of us in Bulgaria. There is more to be desired with regard to the acceleration and realization of the euro funds under the operational programmes. I am convinced of this, and we hope to hear from you concrete measures and actions with which, as you have said, the growth of absorption, of contracting will be absorbed by the New Year. We expect such good news in the name of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Etem, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if you ask questions you will be ambitious and you will be able to show by the New Year on effective implementation and absorption of EU funds, I am ready to ask you questions from this platform every week. But as I also said in the introduction of my question, our aim is to pay attention to and reach consensus on this subject so that you can also take advantage of the opposition's expertise. We are ready, well-intentioned to help with our experience in this area, both I and our entire parliamentary group, so that this topic with EU funds is not speculated and there is a consensus that guarantees without this limited resource of our country, to be used, as you said, effectively, purposefully with good benefit for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u219	Thank you, Mr. Etem. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Etem! Bulgaria started poorly the previous programming period. I don't think there'll be an argument here. However, the final score will be above average. Absolutely! Currently, verified costs are in the order of 99% when certified, i.e. those we will send to the Commission, reach the same value, I am convinced that in the final ranking will be much above the environment. You remember that it was not always during the programming period that the ranking was due to the fact that I do not want to politicize it, because of this or that government, due to the experience that has been gained by both the administrations and by the municipalities and by the companies and by the NGOs. As is apparent from the numbers I commented earlier, Bulgaria began this programming period considerably better. This should be an ambition when we see the final ranking for 2014 - 2020, we should be in the forehead. I think we can and we deserve it! With regard to Mr. Chakarov's comment that we should seek political consensus on the topic, you are absolutely right, Mr. Chakarov. I'm not talking about the papers here either. Documents are easily written, even if they are of such volume and with such a challenge as the strategy for backward areas. I'll give you an example because you know the water sector. What happens to consolidation processes? Although there are several unconsolidated territories left, do political forces speculate and frighten people that someone will take their water during the consolidation process? We'll be honest to admit it's happening. This is also part of the demand for a non-party consensus. You are well aware that without consolidated territories, without the completion of reform in the water sector, there is no funding from the Cohesion Fund for either pipes or channels. Let the consensus not be just on paper level. Let the consensus be at the level of action and not only here in the National Assembly, but in the whole territory of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u221	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Next question to... Before that, however, the word wants Minister Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u222	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for the opportunity to take up a topic that arose during the plenary session today, namely the implementation of the measure "School fruit" and "School milk." Before I express my attitude to such accusations and conclusions, I would like to introduce you to the fact that the schemes are being implemented. The School Fruit Scheme started to apply for the first time since 2010, with 118 thousand benefit being made in the first school year. 694 children and their number in the last year reached 456 thousand. 723 children. The School Milk Scheme started to apply from 2009 in Bulgaria, with only 3500 children benefiting from it due to the conditions of application. In the current term of office, we have changed the terms of the scheme and since 2015 the scheme has already been attended by 302 thousand children. The only changes that were made in the implementation of these two schemes in the current term were the conditions for the delivery of these products to be by Bulgarian state standard and to be by local producers, with the idea and philosophy, first, that the products under Bulgarian state standard form in adolescents and attitude towards traditional Bulgarian taste, and of course to support local producers. What are the budgets of the schemes? "School fruit" "13,164 million." lv. Annually, and "School milk" (School milk (School milk) "school milk (School milk) " (School milk)'(School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk)) (School milk) (School milk) (School milk) What are the conditions for implementing the schemes set out from the beginning of the initiation of the implementation of the schemes? Limit prices supplied by BGN 0.68 of a portion of fruits and vegetables in total. Both schemes shall be implemented under European regulations. School milk.. 0.53 BGN. again on a serving of milk product. I said in our mandate what conditions we put for Bulgarian State Standard and local producers. These marginal prices, as I have already mentioned, per serving, actually allow, according to the different types of fruit and vegetables, the number of which has a different weight in terms of kilograms to be extrapolated at a different price. As far as we're concerned, let's get to the end of the billings and charges presented. As I said, these marginal prices have been set since the beginning of the implementation of the schemes and have not been changed. The only change will happen now, as a working group in the State Fund of Agriculture and Agriculture, together with the food industry, producers and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, are currently preparing a different definition of the marginal prices and will have marginal prices at the price of supply, transport costs and logistics, as what is seen on invoices and what is supplied and documents on the basis of which the scheme is proved to be implemented are the delivery of these portions by the producer concerned and in the respective packaged form. In this sense, I can say that any invoice taken out and shown is outside the context of the general rules of application of the School Milk and School Fruit and is practically a manipulation in the current election campaign. Moreover, as I mentioned, these are the prices from the beginning of the measures. During this period, the current government also ruled the Oresharski cabinet, the current opposition. And the invoices during this period of the current opposition's mandate, by Oresharski, were exactly the same. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I can tell the facts, facts and rules on which the Programme was implemented. The beneficiaries of these two measures include schools that have directly chosen the possibility for them to load their own students with fruit and dairy products. Yes, at the moment there will be these marginal prices will be set in another way to improve control. And I said it's a marginal price per serving. In the event of transparency of tenders, each establishment should be provided with the relevant measure with the product at real prices. I would therefore call for us to really build on the facts, and if there are problems, if there are proposals, to be justified, as we have communication with the non-governmental sector, as we have changed these measures and in our mandate, we have set requirements for Bulgarian State Standard, for meat producers, we are now ready and ready with new prices that will be lower in the part of 'Fruits and vegetables', for dairy products and in the opinion of the industry these are market prices. Everything else in practice as a conclusion represents a lie about manipulation in the current situation. I hope the time to hold the elections will pass and we can sit down and talk normally. The bad news is that at this time lies are becoming many and when sociologists come out and say how much Bulgarian society believes politicians, we should not be surprised at all by this low percentage. When I came here, in this room, just a few months ago, another accusation was made about the stopped program "Selski districts" at a time when we were opening new receptions. And I showed the payment we printed in the morning. Then it was said that they were fake. Here, I'm not saying that something false is shown. I explained the rules, explained how long they were valid, explained that a year and a half of this period, when they were applied, also managed the current opposition and accepted this as normal and explained that at this school year the rules would be different and the prices would be lower, but I am not using a lie! In this regard, I would just like to supplement to inform the interested parties: on Monday, the adoption of Measure 7.2 ends. We are waiting for the Regulation on the changes under Measure 4.1, which is likely to be published today in the Official Journal and next week we are launching the second reception with the entire remaining budget under Measure 4.1. That against the backdrop of your accusations. Only four months ago, I thought the program was shut down! Dear colleagues, I call on, despite the election time, the Bulgarian political elite, Bulgarian politicians to learn to speak with facts. Then there will be a more sensible dialogue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u223	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, in the manner of conduct. As soon as you deviate from the procedure, I'll take your word away! Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am glad that you came in response to this declaration to explain what this is all about, but I asked you this question a few months ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u225	It should be about me, not the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u226	You have declared absence from parliamentary control, and you, Mr. Chairman, are calling the minister to explain when she has declared her absence that she will be abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u227	I didn't call her! I didn't call her, she volunteered to come.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u228	Our invoices you told me about aren't fakes you showed. I want the Bulgarian people to hear: carrots bought 70 pennies are sold 7 leva.! We can't fly them in a plane. This transport can't get in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u229	What's your beef with me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u230	Admit it. [[People's representative Manol Genov continues to speak on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u231	Thank you, Mr. Genov. [[Mister Desislava Taneva wants the floor.]] You won't be able to answer, I'm sorry. We continue with the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MP Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev regarding violations in the privatisation of the Diplomatic Club-Boyana. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, our question really concerns the scandalous deal for the privatisation of the Diplomatic Club-Boyana, but as it will be in the course of the matter, we have actually found that this is probably not an isolated case. That is why we have asked you a question, as we have addressed all other ministers: have there been similar practices over the years in their portfolios and what they represent, have there been other such scandalous deals? Regarding specifically the scandalous deal for the privatisation of the Boyana Diplomatic Club, as we all know, it is part of ADIS. [[Mister Taneva spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u233	Sorry, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, Mr. Genov! Please, if you have any conversations out of the room or... Madam Minister, Mr. Genov! Please, the conversations outside the room! Sorry, Mr. Slavov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u234	Thank you. As we all know, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Diplomatic Club-Boyana is part of ADIS, from the Agency for Diplomatic Property in the country, Ltd., a company that is on the ban list for privatisation, Annex 1 to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. It is obvious, however, that the Privatization Agency applies a very special interpretation of the Law and specifically of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 and interprets it in a way in which it considers that it may, without the explicit consent of the National Assembly required by law, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for companies located in this prohibition list, sell parts of them. Now I do not know if they are lawyers in the Executive Board of the Agency, but it is still an administration to the Council of Ministers, and that is why we are asking you this question, but I am really asking myself the question, even the elementary, human logic, since an enterprise is on this ban list, it is obviously on the ban list precisely because of the most attractive properties or property of this enterprise and not because of the debts of the enterprise. That is, to accept a state authority that it is the most appetizing property that can sell them as separate units without a decision of the National Assembly, as required by the Law, borders on me with absurdity. Therefore, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we ask you: do you not believe that this is a vicious practice and do you not believe that the sale of the Diplomatic Club-Boyana, an asset of an enterprise from the ban list under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, for such a transaction, is a necessary explicit decision of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and do you approve this scandalous deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u235	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Gentlemen Slavov and Dimitrov! I very much hate when parliamentary scrutiny requires detailed texts of laws to be read with paragraphs, terms and paragraphs, as if we were officials at a meeting. There is no need for anything like this, so I will give you in writing the response from the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control, where there is a detailed description of the legal technique for the transaction, just marking that their logic, which seems rather adequate, is that There is a purposeful Application and even an example is given with other departments, with other companies, for example a National Sports Base (National Sports Base) EAD, which namely mentions separate parts which cannot be sold. But you will get acquainted with this within the framework of the written answer. The point is, from a legal point of view, the procedure seems clear. Another question is that the text of the Law is not precise, but allows for a mixed interpretation. And here I think that the role of the National Assembly, if you have visions, like mine, that the text is incompletely precise and that it can be considered to be refined the Law. We know that there are spheres where a law cannot regulate things in the smallest detail, but this is not such a sphere. There must be a clear order, even when we are talking about compartments, in the same Annex, in respect of all offices and in respect of all companies, to mention parts which should not be privatised. By getting to the specific case, ADIS is not on the Forbidden List because it has attractive properties and because it has to serve the diplomatic corps. And let us draw attention to the other two issues related to the deal. In view of the appropriateness of whether the property in question should have had a privatisation procedure, my response is.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The specific property, as I recall, was rented out. And this is probably not the only property within the ADIS, for which hardly the role of the state is to be a hotelier, tour operator and so on. [[BSP LB.]] However, if we comment on the third part of the question, because you called the deal a scandal and I believe that there is a reason for this, this is related to the buyer. And if there's a reason to call the deal that way, it's based on who the buyer is. To this end, weeks ago, the National Revenue Agency launched an inspection. First of the entire procedure for privatization of the Diplomatic Club
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u237	This is more than scandalous!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u238	What you're saying is insulting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u239	All information is requested from the Privatization Agency, as will be verified by the persons, the company and the origin of the funds, which for me is the whole procedure and, apart from commenting on what legislation should look like, is the most important issue. When the inspection is completed, we will have reason to claim that the deal is as scandalous as it seems.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Martin Dimitrov. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's like a car being banned from sale, but if someone decides to sell the engine and say, "Yeah, well, there's no explicit writing anywhere, with the car being banned from sale, we can't sell the engine either.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u242	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u243	Please be quiet in the hall. [[Replications from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u244	Therefore, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I would ask you for a stronger opinion on the subject, because nowhere in the Law is given the right to sell separate parts unless there is an explicit opinion of the Council of Ministers and a vote of the National Assembly. That is, if the National Assembly decides, it can remove a separate part of the Banishing List and resolve privatisation. That didn't happen, and that's the way it's supposed to be. If there's no such order, it's chaos. The issue is beyond the specific case, and in my opinion the deal is not over, and the Supervisory Board of the Privatisation Agency simply should not approve it in this form for many reasons. More important, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is this question. These practices cannot continue with the sale of separate parts and the Privatization Agency cannot interpret the Law as it sees fit. For this reason, my colleague Slavov and I have introduced an interpretive Law, which says and explains what the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control means and that something that is on the Prohibition List as a whole and as separate parts cannot and should not be sold. I hope that this interpretive Law, which the Parliament has practice to adopt such bills, will receive the support of my colleagues and that such cases will not be in the future, because the risk is as follows. When I put this question to the Economic Commission, notice, none of my colleagues from all parliamentary groups, no one was aware that the Privatisation Agency could sell parts of an enterprise that was on the Forbidden List because every colleague, reading the Law, voting the Law, felt that such a right the Agency did not have. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's our opinion, too. This is how we feel that we have adopted a Law which does not grant such rights to the Agency. And I'd like to ask you this. You gave me some justification, but when I asked the Privatization Agency for the particular text they referred to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u245	Thirty seconds. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u246	...who gave them the right to separate units, they couldn't give me a clear answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. So I hope for a firmer position on your part. Practices like this don't work for us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u247	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u248	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, obviously the existing order is, so to speak, unsynchronous. As far as Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control regarding certain companies that are on the Prohibition List. There is a separate application that tells which parts of them the parts of the parts can be privatized. As far as most companies are concerned, they do not. It is only right for all companies to have the same order, or a detailed description of which parts cannot, or a general prohibition on not being able to privatize compartments. And here it's a matter of debate with all the arguments. My principled support for your proposal can be expressed when I see it. Only without entering into a debate that does not belong in the parliamentary hall, at least within the framework of parliamentary control, I am not convinced that all the companies on the Prohibition List all the properties there fulfil such strategic objectives that cause companies to be on the Prohibition List. That's also a nuance of conversation. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u249	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u250	We have no dispute that legislation should not allow for a mixed interpretation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u251	You can't listen to this indifferently!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] For the expression of emotion, I do not think that the most appropriate place is the plenary room. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] What are you doing right now, Mr. Bojinov? What procedure is it that you're doing right now? And if I react, you know what I have to do?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u253	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u254	Guess what? Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u255	Dear Mr. President, I am now taking the procedure in the manner of conduct, not just a moment ago, so that we do not delay the Deputy Prime Minister with unnecessary procedure to complete his answers and questions and to be able to take care of his current work. I take this procedure, Mr President, not only as chair of the current parliamentary control meetings, but also as acting on the duties of the President of the National Assembly in relation to the order which has been reduced to us for information. In this regard, the question that I would like to make to you as a procedure in the manner of conduct is to explain to me who is to blame for the fact that today in what is written about parliamentary control as a programme on the last page writes:..Because of the country's absence in the Parliamentary Control Meeting, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva will not participate in this way............................................................... What we just saw here was Mrs. Taneva, or was she her double or her spirit? Who was here at the moment and who is responsible for the fact that there is a clear lie in an official document of the National Assembly? I ask you very much, as President of the National Assembly, to ask the administration of the National Assembly to clarify who is misleading the Members of the National Assembly. Is this an attempt to hide Ms. Taneva from parliamentary control and answer uncomfortable questions for her, or is it some practice of neglecting control by this minister?! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u256	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We will ask the responsible persons in the National Assembly to clarify the case. It is provided as information that there is a letter of absence in Vienna. This is why Minister Taneva did not participate in the parliamentary meeting. Maybe later he flies. The circumstances will be clear and I'll let you know. The next question is to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev about relations with the Republic of Cuba. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u257	Dear Minister Mitov, in recent years we have witnessed a significant change in relations between the European Commission and individual countries - EU member states - with Cuba. In November 2014, the foreign ministers signed a petition to the European Commission to start negotiations with Raoul Castro, and in March 2016, High Representative Federica Mogherini made a second visit to this Caribbean state. It was accompanied by Neven Minitsa, Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development. The joint declaration by Mrs Mogherini and the Cuban Government states, I quote: "It will be possible to consolidate relations between Cuba and the European Union in the medium and long term on the basis of reciprocity, respect and mutual benefit. In addition, in March of this year, President Barack Obama made an historic visit to Cuba, setting out concrete steps to lift the trade embargo against the island state. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what specific measures will your ministry and you take to expand and enhance bilateral political and economic relations with Cuba in accordance with the common policy of the European Union? The development of these relations would help to implement some preliminary arrangements reached between Bulgaria and Cuba during the visit to Havana in November 2015 of our government delegation, led by Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u258	Thank you for asking, dear Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please respond. By procedure, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, first of all I would like to express my gratitude for the question and the opportunity to give greater visibility to the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria towards the region of Latin America and the Caribbean, in particular to the Republic of Cuba. In recent decades, the influence of Latin American and Caribbean countries in international relations has increased, despite the international challenges they face and their non-homogeneity. In general, the region has significant political, economic and demographic potential. A number of countries have seen accelerated economic and social development. In parallel with these processes, there is a deepening of the interaction between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, with Brazil and Mexico being raised to the level of strategic partnership. In this context, Bulgaria seeks to implement foreign policy priorities, to develop its cooperation with the countries of the region, both bilaterally and through international organisations and forums and relations between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean. The overall review of Bulgaria's relations with the Latin American and Caribbean countries shows that there are no historical problems in them, with bilateral political dialogue traditionally characterised by openness and well-meaning. Currently, Bulgaria supports embassies in four countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, Argentina, Brazil, Cuba and Mexico. Embassys in Sofia support Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela and Cuba, which specifically shows the existence of reciprocity between the two countries and our bilateral relations. Due to financial constraints, the personnel of our diplomatic missions in Latin America and the Caribbean are greatly reduced and in most cases is reduced to an ambassador and a diplomat. Two countries make an exception to Brazil and Cuba, where the Office for Trade and Economic Affairs also operates. All Bulgarian ambassadors to Latin America and the Caribbean have additional accreditation in neighbouring countries, with Bulgaria's Ambassador to Havana accredited in Jamaica and the Dominican Republic. In addition, the Bulgarian Embassy in Havana covers in information and consular terms the rest of the Caribbean countries. From this brief summary information about our diplomatic presence in the region, I hope it is clear that despite the difficulties and restrictions Bulgaria seeks to develop its mutually beneficially fully relations with the countries of the region, among which traditionally Cuba occupies a special place and enjoys great popularity in Bulgaria as well. Bulgarian-Kuban diplomatic relations already have over 55 years of history characterized by a different degree of intensity of contacts over the years, but with maintained friendly relations between the two peoples. At present, a positive assessment of the state of political dialogue between Bulgaria and Cuba can be given. Moreover, in recent years there has been a tangible activation of relations in different directions. The two countries have repeatedly stated their will to strengthen bilateral ties in a spirit of respect, respect for sovereignty and seeking cooperation in all spheres of mutual interest. The expression of this will is not only the preservation of the Embassy of Bulgaria in Havana, but also the meetings held with different representatives of the Cuban authorities, among which can be outlined: a meeting of the foreign ministers of Bulgaria and Cuba in September 2013 in New York, a visit to Cuba to the Minister of Economy of the Republic of Bulgaria, Minister Lukarski, headed by a delegation, including Deputy Minister of Economy, representative of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and 11 Bulgarian Companies, also a visit to Cuba to the Minister of Youth and Sports Kras Krasen Kralev, a visit of the President of BCCI Tsvetan Simeonov. On 31 January 2016, a meeting of President Rosen Plevneliev with Reinaldo Garcia Zapata was held in Brazil and Argentina. I am also pleased to note the very good interaction between the two countries within international organisations and forums, which we hope will continue to develop actively in the future. Bulgaria and Cuba are looking for opportunities to step up trade and economic ties, whose current situation does not meet the potential. Given the specifics of the Cuban economy and the reform process in the country, in November 2015 the activities of the trade and economic affairs office were resumed, as I said above, a visit was made to the Minister of Economy Mr. Lukarski. During the visit were held meetings with Cuban ministers of industries, foreign trade, foreign investment, food industry, economy and planning and with the President of the Cuban Chamber of Commerce. There is expressed readiness to identify and implement initiatives to increase trade. Specific arrangements have been reached. We hope that the visit will give a new impetus to trade and economic relations, for which more detailed information could be provided by the Ministry of Economy. In sync with the new economic realities and in order to use the new opportunities opened with the initiated process of opening the Cuban economy, Mr. Tsvetan Simeonov signed in Havana in May 2016. Cooperation Agreement with the Cuban Chamber of Commerce. The interest of the two countries for partnership in the food industry, construction, renovation and completion of the water supply system and increasing the flow of tourists was confirmed. On the Bulgarian side was declared readiness to restore active business relations and partnership between Bulgarian and Cuban companies when visiting Bulgarian companies in Cuba. In addition, there is active work on the renewal of the contractual and legal base between Bulgaria and Cuba. During the visit of Minister Krasen Kralev was signed a contract for cooperation in the field of physical culture and sport between our Ministry of Sport and the National Institute for Sports, Physical Education and Recreation of Cuba. At the final stage of negotiations is an Agreement on mutual free provision and use of property for the needs of diplomatic representations of both Parties. Practically a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and Cuba is agreed to establish a mechanism for bilateral consultations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u260	I'm going to ask you to graduate, Minister Mitov. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u261	Dear Mr. Gechev, I have more to say, but perhaps after your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u262	Thanks for understanding. Professor Gechev, come in, you have the opportunity to formulate up to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u263	Thank you. Mr. Mitov, I'm pleased with a small part of the answer concerning this, you have declared that we will keep the embassy in Cuba. Of course, I also speak as Chairman of the Parliamentary Friendship Group Bulgaria Mr. Mitov, my first supplementary question is about the specific statistics, what exactly will the government do? Of course, this cannot happen only with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we want you to work closely with the Ministry of Economy and the entire government. Why, Mr. Secretary? Looking at the statistics, the concrete facts, and not just the intentions and promises, we will see that exports from the European Union to Cuba over the last two years, an honourable colleague, have grown by almost 50 per cent from 1 billion. 600 million. EUR 2 billion. 200 million. Euros. What's going on in Bulgaria? You've seen the statistics? Out of EUR 1.10 million, which is pocket money, with Cuba in 2014, now at EUR 1 million. 200,000. Euros. This isn't serious! An increase of 3.4 per cent is nothing, that is, we are falling tens of times behind the European Union's common policy. If you order your collaborators, you will see that with more than 50-60 percent for individual countries, exports to Cuba are growing in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia. Bulgaria is falling behind again. We want concrete, synchronized actions of the Bulgarian government to protect the Bulgarian interest and use the new opportunities. Secondly, the question of Bulgarian debt. Dear Minister, you certainly know that Cuba owes Bulgaria 350 million US dollars, approximately. Where is the Bulgarian government to develop options, because obviously the Cuban country, for a number of reasons now, can hardly pay this amount? There are options for the Republic of Bulgaria to protect its interest. Processes of privatisation, foreign investment, by the way, are starting, the largest foreign investor in Cuba again is the European Union. We stand and wait, and no one defends the Bulgarian interest. So an organised increase in Bulgarian investments in Cuba, as US and other investments are beginning to grow, and an increase in trade, because in Cuba we have specific economic interests. That is, we want concrete actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Economy and other ministries in order to protect the Bulgarian interest and take advantage of the new opportunities for developing trade and economic relations with Cuba. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u264	Thank you and I, dear Mr. Gechev. Dear Minister, you have three minutes to answer the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gechev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will continue, I have just listed all the visits and activities in recent months that we have undertaken together with the Ministry of Economy, naturally, more specific data can provide them. I am delighted with the interest in Cuba by the Bulgarian National Assembly, where a large group of friendship groups with Cuba is regularly established. I also consider parliamentary cooperation an important instrument in bilateral relations. As far as the US relations are concerned, Cuba, Bulgaria appreciates, naturally, the positive restoration of diplomatic relations between the two countries and the steps taken by them to fully normalise bilateral ties. I hope this will also encourage the reform process in Cuba. On this occasion, I remind you that Bulgaria, together with the Member States of the European Union, regularly voted in favour of the UN General Assembly Resolution on the repeal of the unilateral economic, trade and financial embargo imposed by the United States against Cuba. I would also like to refer to another extremely important point in the development of cooperation between the European Union and Cuba, once again mentioned by you. On the one hand, Bulgaria welcomes, contributes and contributes to the overall deepening of relations between the European Union and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean (ODLAC) countries, part of which is Cuba. The European Union summits are an expression of the good interaction between the two regions on a number of important issues and the expanding dialogue between them. On the other hand, Bulgaria, of course, supported the opening of negotiations in 2014 to sign an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and Cuba, as well as any visits that were subsequently made. To conclude, I sum up that relations between the two countries are developing on a bilateral basis, as well as within international organisations and forums under the EU relations. The main tools and tools for this aim are to carry out visits at different levels and political consultations on important issues for both countries; participation in the formulation and implementation of policies within the framework of a common foreign and security policy (CFSP) of the European Union towards Latin America and the Caribbean, Cuba in particular; making the most of the advantages provided by the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Cuba; interaction within the framework of international organisations and fora; expanding and updating the contractual legal basis of bilateral relations, which is extremely important, so that we can precisely deepen our relations at this time; the Foreign Ministry devotes special and priority attention to this moment; assistance for the development of trade and economic relations with Cuba, in coordination with various Bulgarian institutions and institutions; strengthening cooperation in the field of education, science, culture, sport and so on. The fact that there is at least a small increase in our trade means that the Bulgarian state has realized that it must use all its funds, institutional capacity and influence in order to create the conditions for the Bulgarian business, which will lead to greater trade and, naturally, make the most of the changing geopolitical environment and attitude towards Cuba. The debt you are right must be used as a foreign policy tool to resolve much of the issues that stand between us, especially when it comes to the renewal of the contractual legal basis on which we work in our bilateral relations with Cuba. Thank you again for the question. I hope that the relations between Bulgaria and Cuba will be much more in-depth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u266	Thank you for your answer, Minister Mitov. Mr. Gechev, would you like to take an attitude to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u267	Thank you. Dear colleague Mitov, I very much hope that what you have said here will be, as we say, put into action. We should not be relieved by the slight increase in Bulgarian exports to Cuba compared to other former socialist countries. This is a people with whom we have a close relationship for decades, well received Bulgaria, has a good mood. I am sure that if the Bulgarian state creates enough good conditions, as Slovaks, Hungarians, Poles do, we will be able to protect the Bulgarian interest and we can export more to Cuba, and we can import more from Cuba. I suggest you from the National Assembly stand, make an initiative with the Minister of Economy. We are ready from parliament, from various political forces to sit down and help with schemes to solve the debt problem, as this will require political support and a solution. Most likely economically, the best solution should be sought in the direction of turning the debt, for example, one of the most possible solutions, at least the majority of the debt in the participation of Bulgarian companies in the upcoming privatisation processes in Cuba. The Bulgarian state has no less interest than the other countries, no less than that of the United States and needs a good organization from the Bulgarian state to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u268	Thanks for the attitude, Professor Gechev. Let's move on to the next question. Through it, we move to our southern neighbour, the Republic of Turkey. The issue is from the MP Georgi Kadiev on the action of the Embassy and Consular Representations of Bulgaria in the Republic of Turkey during an attempt on a military coup. You have the floor, dear colleague Kadiev, to develop your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, on 15 July 2016, an attempt was made in the neighbouring Republic of Turkey for a military coup. For hours there were transfers of Bulgarian media for mass information and a newsletter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was also distributed. At the same time, there was total silence by the diplomatic representations of Bulgaria in the Republic of Turkey, especially the silence of our Ambassador Ms. Nadezhda Neynski was evident. The inaction of our consulate in Adrianople was extremely frustrating for me. I apply phone records to a Bulgarian who tried to contact our consul there on the early morning of the next day. On his mobile phone from 05.54 pm to 07.00 pm on 16 July the Bulgarian Consul does not respond to more than 10 calls. In the meantime, the so-called foreign ministry emergency phone is responsible only as a fax. In a conversation with me on 18 July 2016, Ambassador Neynsky confirmed that it was expressly forbidden by the Foreign Ministry to communicate with the public. The embassy is also prohibited from having its own website, Facebook page or Twitter account, where to inform, advise, direct and organize Bulgarian citizens in Turkey in case of natural disaster, political instability or other emergency situation. I believe that the attempt at a coup in Turkey shows huge gaps in the communication policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, in future emergencies, could also lead to human losses. In this regard, I ask you to answer: is there an order from you or any other Foreign Ministry official to Ambassador Neynsky and all other embassies and consulates not to communicate publicly with media and in trouble Bulgarians on the territory of the Republic of Turkey during attempts to take a military coup? Why is it forbidden for our embassies and consular offices around the world to have their own communication channels, including social networks, with a view to a faster connection with Bulgarians in distress? What is the logic of this ban? What responsibility and punishment will the Bulgarian consul general in Adrianople bear, Mr. Vasil Valchev, for his inadequate response and lack of organization to help Bulgarians in the territory of the Republic of Turkey on the night of the military coup and the hours after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u270	Thank you for the question, dear Mr. Kadyev. Here you are, Minister Mitov, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, in answer to your questions about the actions of the embassies and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Republic of Turkey during the attempt of a military coup, I give the following answers. On the first issue, I would like to emphasise that the public statements of the Head and the officials of diplomatic representation are regulated in the Diplomatic Service Act, mainly in art. 50, para. 1-3 as follows: Art. 50. (1) Official statements on behalf of the diplomatic service shall be made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Ministers. (2) The servant of the diplomatic service shall not be entitled to make public statements on behalf of the service unless authorised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Permanent Secretary. (3) The servant of the diplomatic service shall not be entitled to make promises or to undertake obligations to which the diplomatic service is bound without being authorised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. My personal conversation with Ambassador Nadezhda Neynski was held in order to recall the situations in the Law, because in the context of the extraordinary tense and unpredictable domestic political situation, a possible violation of its regulations could be misinterpreted and could even endanger the lives and health of both diplomatic and Bulgarian citizens on the ground. No one has been forbidden to talk to Bulgarian citizens, to meet their needs. We are talking about a ban on media appearances that can be misinterpreted and lead to a threat to the lives and health of our missions, their employees and Bulgarian citizens present at that time in the territory of the Republic of Turkey. This is a principle that is applied by any well-ordered diplomacy. Look at the night of the election, there's no diplomat who's gone to the media and explained anything. Such orders were given in the past when coups were carried out in other countries, including during left-wing. On the second question, on the communication channels of our offices abroad, I would find it odd. I can provide you with the websites, internet addresses as well as the fixed and mobile telephone numbers of the Bulgarian diplomatic consular offices in the Republic of Turkey on which their communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other Bulgarian state institutions is taking place, as well as with the citizens of the sending and receiving countries, including the Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey. The above communication channels also provide communication in the context of the failed attempt at a military coup in the Republic of Turkey on 15 July 2016, as well as after it. No one is forbidden to have a website, to make Facebook pages and so on. There are specific rules for this, but nowhere is forbidden. Bulgarian missions have such communication channels. On the third issue, the primary task put by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Consulate General and his head personally on the night of July 15th, the morning of July 16th was to open the three border crossing points along the Bulgarian-Turkish border located in the consular district of Adrianople. The border crossings in question were closed to move from Turkey to Bulgaria by the Turkish authorities. The timely and adequate reaction of the Consulate General of the Republic of Bulgaria in Edirne to the Turkish authorities, implemented in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, contributed to the opening of the three crossings and the omission of the Bulgarian citizens and their cars. In this sense, I do not see any grounds for punishment of our consul general in Adrianople, and I would not comment on allegations and interpretations of individual cases of difficult communication on the night of the unsuccessful attempt at a military coup, as well as after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u272	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u273	Dear Minister, I think you've said a few untruths. First of all, I am well aware of the text of the law, and that is why my question was: was there an order from your side to Ambassador Neynsky not to be leaked to the media, as you said? I understand from the answer that there was such an order. Let us clarify that this is not about a political assessment which we expect from Mrs. Neynsky for a coup which in some way threatens the lives of the staff in the mission, or other Bulgarians there. It is only about logistical support. I don't see any logic at all. The easiest way to get to all Bulgarians is through the media, not when each one of them calls the embassy, which is eventually released as a fax, and possibly also works. There is no benefit in banning logistical support through media appearances by any Bulgarian diplomatic representative who simply repeats the instructions you have given them from Sofia. It is not true that there is not a single foreign diplomat who has not spoken to the media. I personally took the trouble of the British ambassador, look at the night of the coup what he wrote on Twitter. There he wrote: "We have a man at the airport from the consulate. If you're at the airport, contact him. We've got our guy at the stadium, we've got our guy here, we've got our guy there. There is nothing like this on the site of the Bulgarian mission in Ankara or on the site of any of our consulates. It is not true that the Bulgarian mission in Ankara has a Facebook page. It's not true that there's a Twitter account that doesn't have one. Ms. Nadezhda Neynski personally told me that she was forbidden, you are now saying to me, "It is not forbidden."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u274	It's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u275	Who's lying to her or you? Come on, get it together! This thing saves people's lives and I will not read this site, but I got a call from four or five Bulgarians there, married to Turks who say: "Yes, we didn't know what to do in this situation, and there are certainly hundreds of them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to do is just come up with a logistical system to notify people. I do not expect you to give us an assessment of whether we should support or not support the military coup in the night. Of course, these are political decisions. I expect when someone calls and says, "What should I do?" By the way, what the Bulgarian consul did on the night of the coup was to sleep until morning. He didn't organize anything. The borders were closed at three o'clock, at six o'clock he wasn't answering his phone. They opened them in six and something, when the same Bulgarians at the border were contacted by the Bulgarian television stations and became a media scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u276	I'm asking you to finish the line. Time's up. Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u277	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadyev, with your interpretations of the events, I will not deal with it. However, I will repeat: No one is forbidden to answer calls from Bulgarian citizens. This was precisely the task of our missions to respond to calls and signals of Bulgarian citizens and to help them and not through the media to deal with comments on what is happening in the Republic of Turkey. The communications channels to the media were centralized and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs several times on the night of the coup attempt did exactly what you said, evaluated and communicated what was happening right now in the Republic of Turkey on the night of the coup attempt and gave phones and emails for communication with the Ministry and with our missions. This is located on the Foreign Ministry website and there is no reason to consider anything else. In this case, communication is centralized. This is how it is done. Your example of the British ambassador is that way. He didn't get any grades, he said where he had what. That's what we've done. That he did it on Twitter, and we did it on his official website. Forgive me, but this is already a matter of communication. I'm not saying that logically we're perfect. We certainly have something to improve in our communication on both social networks and in every other respect, but risking something from our diplomatic officer to be said in the media, which can be misinterpreted on the night of the elections and risk the health and life of our citizens and our diplomatic representations, is unacceptable. That's how it's done. This has been done before your ministers, ministers of the left have given similar instructions in attempts to carry out a military coup in other countries. It's a principle. You didn't say anything to disprove this principle. Perhaps there is something to improve in our communication that is true. As far as our consul is concerned, you're not at all right here. I told you what happened from there are your interpretations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u278	Thank you, dear Minister. Before we proceed with the next question, there was a procedure in the manner of conduct by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. I take the opportunity to introduce the other Members of the National Assembly to the procedure he uses. This was about how did Minister Taneva find herself in the Chamber, given that she should be on a business trip abroad? On 27 September a letter was received from Minister Taneva, who informed the National Assembly that she was on a business trip in Austria for the period in which she should participate in parliamentary control. There is also such an order signed by the Prime Minister on August 31st, note what the dates of September 27th, August 31st are, because the accusation was that it was not clear how it appeared. She didn't leave yesterday on a business trip, but parliamentary control has been drawn up, you've all had the opportunity to see what the parliamentary control programme is. It is also recorded in the Parliamentary Control Communication that it will not be able to participate, you know what parliamentary control procedures are. Since she was here today, I think the best thing she could do in response to the declaration is to get you acquainted with the actual situation. So, please, pass on...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u279	I'm here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u280	Did you hear what the chronology is? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Come, I will introduce you to this in particular, as the procedure was for me and let us clarify what the facts are. Sorry, we're moving on with parliamentary control. Question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on the appointments of ambassadors and diplomatic officials of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, according to art. 24 of the Diplomatic Service Act shall not exceed 20 per cent of the total number of all heads of the overseas representations at any given time. In other words, political appointments for ambassadors and consuls cannot be more than 20%. In this regard, please answer the following questions. Firstly, what percentage of the heads of foreign missions are not members of the diplomatic service, i.e. political appointments, who are they and when are they appointed? Secondly, what percentage of the foreign office heads are interns at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for less than 12 months until their appointment as heads, who are they and when are they appointed? What other foreign office officials are not members of the diplomatic service, when and what position are they assigned to? Do all heads of foreign offices meet the requirements of art. 27, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Diplomatic Service Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u282	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For an answer, Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u283	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, on the first question: what percentage of the heads of the foreign missions are not members of the diplomatic service, who are they and when are they appointed? According to the provision of art. 4 of the Diplomatic Service Act are diplomatic officials who are civil servants of diplomatic rank, civil servants without diplomatic rank and employees of employment, which calls for the conclusion that all heads of foreign missions are embassies, permanent representations, general consulates and consulates, are members of the diplomatic service. Since after issuing a decree by the President or a decision of the Council of Ministers to be a specific natural person to be a long-term and lawful posting, it should, first, be appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which gives him the status of a diplomatic officer. Despite the background, the heads of foreign missions, which can be assumed to be referring to your questioning at present, are: Nadezhda Neynski Ankara, Maya Hristova, Baku, Meglena Plugchieva, Bern, Switzerland, Kiril Topalov.Vatican, Svetoslav Spasov, Metin Kazak, Doha, Deyana Kostadinova, to the United Nations Office in Geneva, Tanya Dimitrova, Zagreb, Krasimir Minchev, Kiev, Antoaneta Bajcheva, Munich, Edvin Sugarev, Nish, Dimitar Tuchkov I should stress that the so-called.................................................... these are not political appointments, there is no such category............................................................ The volatility of this magnitude is directly dependent on the duration of long-term missions, which is not linked to the beginning or end of the calendar year. That is to say, at the beginning of the year, they may return due to the expiry of the long-term mission period, ten heads of foreign missions, among which half of which are of the so-called............................... and at the end of the year to be long-term posted eight or ten career diplomats to these positions occupied so far by external appointments. On the second question: what percentage of the heads of foreign missions are internship at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs less than 12 months until their appointment as heads, who are they and when are they appointed? Except for the so-called.............................. which I have already listed and gave you information, there are no head of foreign missions with an internship at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for less than 12 months until their appointment as leaders. On the third question: which foreign office officials are not members of the diplomatic service, when and what officials are appointed? All officials of foreign missions shall also be officials of the diplomatic service, as no natural person may be long-term posted without having an employment or service with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the exception of armed guards in the overseas offices. The staff with a temporary employment relationship in the overseas representations, including the heads of diplomatic representations, shall be no more than thirty-eight. The fourth question, shall all heads of overseas representations meet the requirements of art. 27, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Diplomatic Service Act? All heads of foreign missions shall be eligible for the appointment of staff of the service or service to the diplomatic service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u284	Thank you for your answer, Minister Mitov. The line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u285	Dear Mr. Mitov, when I asked the question what percentage are not of the diplomatic service, I did not mean the moment when they were already appointed, and you know that very well. I meant the day before what I said you were in charge of conceptually. You've listed twenty-three names. But you didn't answer the question: what percentage is this of the total number? Is it over 20%, as in the Law? Is it really 28%, as claimed? If it is 28% or 25%, do not justify that, if you see, ten of them will be returned now and another ten will be appointed in six months. The law obliges you at any given time to be no more than 20%. Not exactly 20%, there may be 19, 18, 17. You don't comply with the law. Are you doing it now? Answer the question: do you comply with the Law as it is written?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u286	He'll be back in a minute, I hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u287	The answer is no. The answer is clear! The same applies to the second question: what percentage of them have an internship less than 12 months until their appointment as executives? It refers again to the so-called............................................................................................... Because, unfortunately, several ministers in a row found a way to circumvent the Law as political appointments, simply appoint them to the Ministry for one, two, three months and then send them as diplomatic officers in the respective position and then they do not enter the 20%. What I wanted to know from you is: how many are there? You told me there wasn't one of those outside of the 23 names I listed before. How many of those 23 names are there? I want to tell you something, Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has become a place where a ladybug is appointed after a ladybug, after a ladybug, after a ladybug. One of the names you mentioned here, one of them, Ivan Anchev, you said the General Consul in Chicago. He was a police attaché in Washington yesterday. What business does the police attaché have to become consul general?! When did you learn to be consul general?! What about Bulgartabac's PR rep you're assigning now to our UN mission in New York?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What does she know about diplomacy? She's doing Kristalina Georgieva's campaign?! In what way? What about our consul in Mexico, which is an external assignment, and he?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u288	Mr. Kadyev, your time is up. Please complete the sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u289	What about our consul in Nicosia who kidnapped a child?! Recruited a month ago. We wait for the Bulgarians to comply with the Law and the consuls kidnap our children. I'm sorry. Isn't that a ladybug?! Isn't she personally appointed by you, brought by Tsvetan Tsvetanov for the hand?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u290	Mr. Kadyev, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u291	This is the Foreign Ministry! You turned him...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u292	I'll take your word for it...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u293	I'm sorry, but I've studied this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u294	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u295	And I disgust those appointments because I didn't study to see people like that in the Foreign Ministry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u296	Dear Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u297	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kadiev! And I'm disgusted by the mahlen level of this conversation at all. This is not done in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u298	Which way is it done?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u299	You're talking to scheming, conjecture, some kind of intriguing...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u300	Which ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u301	This guy was a cousin here, that cousin... The employee in Nicosia in question is an employee of the Foreign Ministry. She's been in office before. On the day of the accident, we brought her back. She didn't kidnap a child. We're clear on the circumstances. Don't say things that aren't true! And you wind up on top of it by saying such false things! We're clear on the circumstances. Yesterday, I signed an order for her removal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u302	Then why are you removing them?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u303	Please don't call from the gym, Mr. Kadyev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u304	Excuse me, but you have to be right about both the people and the situation. When we know exactly what happened when we took a statement, when we have information, then we can talk specifically. The employee in question did not fall from the sky. She's an employee of the Foreign Ministry. The fact that she went to work at the NRA for a while and then came back and was assigned is another matter. But have, how can I say, the dignity to explore and get complete information and then speak from this tribune. I don't feel like commenting on mahlenian performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u305	Thank you, dear Minister. Following is a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u306	Why did you spare him the answer? Why didn't you say do you follow the law? The 20 percent that doesn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u307	Please, Mr. Kadyev, I've been kind enough to you! One minute I've extended your time, we've heard enough. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u308	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! In Bulgaria again gradually and steadily raises the issue of new refugee centers. There were even statements about the permanent settlement of immigrants in the depopulated municipalities, which subsequently the members of the government denied, but the fact that they came from an authority institution such as the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria is alarming. This would turn these backward and depopulated areas into enclaves with a non-Bulgarian population. The experience with immigrants and emigrants centers in Sofia, Harmanli is bitter. They have long shown that power is difficult to guarantee the security of people in these settlements and in these areas. Our refugee centers turn Bulgarians into respective settlements into potential refugees, make them feel out of place in their own city, in their own neighborhood, in their own home. This is another reason to talk about the replacement of the ethnic and religious appearance of these regions "the so-called deserted regions" and it is a replacement with disastrous consequences for Bulgarianism. We must not allow ourselves to fall victim to the wrong European policy on this issue. The huge masses of illegal immigrants, foreign by culture, religion and mentality should not be established on Bulgarian territory. They should not be permanently established on Bulgarian territory. We need urgent action, not obedience to the chiefs in Brussels. Therefore, we... the united patriots of NFSB, Ataka, IMRO, insist: the emigrants camps are located at the border outside the settlements and are of the closed type. An example of this was given by European Austria. We call for the following measures: First, extradition. When someone has entered us illegally, breaking the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, they just have to be returned to where they started. I'm talking about those people who have no reason to seek humanitarian or refugee status. Second, closing the border. Bulgaria must be ready to apply force through the authorities of the Border Police and the army units that guard the border. For this purpose, however, it is necessary to deploy additional army units along the Bulgarian border to further support the activities of Border Police. Thirdly, it is clear that the Dublin Agreement and its definitions are not working and should require Bulgaria to request the freezing, condemnation or change of the regulation itself. In their present form, the so-called "Dublin agreements" will turn us into a large refugee camp, into a buffer zone inhabited by hundreds of thousands of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers! We, the representatives of the united patriots, have been talking about all these issues for a long time, because in the words of the mayor of Sofia, for example last week, it sounded a reproach that we patriots are almost to blame for this situation because we are organizing protest actions. No, ladies and gentlemen. Ask the people in the villages, ask the people who live near these ghettos, ask the people in the border areas, the people in the neighborhoods such as the Women's Market or Ovcha bought in Sofia, whether we united patriots are guilty! We have raised questions about illegal immigration, about gypsy, screaming poverty and domestic crime for years. So we can't be blamed. Those who have allowed all these problems to fall on the heads of Bulgarian citizens in recent years can be blamed. Government policy in this regard should not cause concern, but should reassure people. People want eviction, and some institutions in Bulgaria talk about settlement. It should not be forgotten that the support we give for the government is against certain measures, some of which are to limit illegal immigration. We will not support anything that promotes this emigration or permanent settlement in certain regions of Bulgaria of large groups that are unwarranted on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Bulgaria does not need to simply change its migration policy. We need a whole new policy for this migration. If we go in this direction, governance, power and government have our support. The Bulgarian government should insist on a new common European refugee policy and emigration policy, rather than wondering what to do with the hundreds of thousands and millions that invade the territory of the European continent. We, the united patriots, will, by the way, propose a European referendum on this issue. This referendum is yet to become a major topic because both Bulgaria and Europe must maintain their traditional culture, their Christian spirit, and the emigrant invasion puts these values at issue. The Bulgarian government has a particular emphasis on whether they will be with the immigrants or with the Bulgarians. I think the correct answer is for the government and institutions of Bulgaria to be on the side of the Bulgarians. Then the voice of the people will be heard. Dear Members of Parliament and Dear Ministers! The Bulgarians want more patriotism in the management of Bulgaria. Patriotism is the only alternative for Bulgaria and for Europe today. The sooner this is realized, the better for everyone. In this regard today, we appreciate the attitude of the individual parliamentary groups and the support they have given for our Burke Bill. That's how he became a citizen. All Bulgarian parliamentary groups supported this bill. This is a good step in the right direction and a good sign that before the dangers facing our national security, we Bulgarians can be united. We also expect the National Assembly to adopt as soon as possible the other two bills that we have proposed on the topic of countering radical Islam and terrorism, namely: the changes in the Penal Code aimed at criminalising the preaching of radical Islam, as well as the changes that we have proposed in the Religions Act, which stop the practice of foreign countries, foreign foundations and organizations to finance and manage Bulgarian religious communities. Today, when the Bulgarian Parliament, more precisely the Bulgarian parties in the national parliament, supported this initiative for the burka ban, is a good step. I hope that this will also be a sign for the future, because Bulgarian citizens in these difficult times for Bulgaria, in these dangerous times, in which the country can be subjected to immense pressure from huge crowds of illegal immigrants with whom terrorism and radical Islam both walk, saw a good sign. I hope to put our political, ideas, ideological and color differences behind us from now on, because, after all, Bulgaria must always stand above everything. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u309	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. We continue with parliamentary control and a series of questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Mitov. There is a question from the MP Magdalena Tasheva about the opening of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the closing of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Norway in Sofia. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u310	Thank you. Minister, a few months ago a diplomatic representation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was opened in Sofia. Although reciprocity is a norm in international relations, the Embassy of Bulgaria in Riyadh is not known at least for now to be discovered. At the same time, it was announced that the Kingdom of Norway is closing its embassy in Bulgaria. The message on the Norwegian Foreign Ministry's website was dated December last year. Norway goes out, Saudi Arabia comes in. During the first management of your cabinet from 2009 to 2013, the Embassy of the Kingdom of Sweden disappeared from Sofia's diplomatic map. You know, Vikings come out, wahhabis come in. I believe that this is a full result due to the foreign policy you are conducting. Therefore, please explain to the people's representation in how the official representation of a tyrannical medieval Wahabi regime that separates 1 million. dollars each calendar day for promotion and propaganda of Islam, of Salafi Islam around the world, will benefit the Bulgarian national interest? I'd like to add here that $1 million worth of data. The dollar for each calendar day of the year was drawn in 2007 by a famous New York senator named Hillary Rodham Clinton. The fact that the regime is Wahabitsky has announced the so-called King Salman inb Abdul Aziz al-Saud himself. When he came to the throne on January 25, 2015, he said that his divine mission would almost be the spread of Wahabism, which was the only true interpretation of Islam, the only true possible Islam.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u311	I'd like to ask you a specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u312	Please also answer what properties and what production funds have already been able to buy from Bulgaria the so-called Saudi partners. Their PR guys or propaganda...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u313	Please, the question, dear Mrs. Tasheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u314	...one of them is named Nikolay Filipov from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry that they are interested in buying arable land in Thrace in order to develop agriculture, livestock and dairy production. What, are they gonna grow camels because other animals can't watch? Why do Saudi businessmen simply not bring their interested Bulgarian products and crops produced by Bulgarian farmers into their kingdom? Representatives of the Saudi Wahabbiti in Bulgaria have already announced that they are looking for a plot, I quote: "At least 15 acres in the Bulgarian capital to build an embassy with a mosque. Where is this plot, Minister? What's the construction stage? Finally, what reasons in Bulgaria's politics have discouraged the Kingdom of Norway to close down its embassy? What is going on with the selfless so-called Norwegian programme, I am talking about the Norwegian financial mechanism that gave away 140 million. Euros for development of Bulgaria? Mr. Minister, please do not read this to me about Bulgaria's trade and economic and diplomatic relations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, because it is available on the Internet and I have read it many times.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u315	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, you're almost two minutes behind schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u317	Not to thank you, it's more my fault, so I hope you'll be very brief during the backdrop. Dear Mr. Mitov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u318	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tosheva, what I'm about to read to you is not online, you know. With regard to the question raised regarding the opening of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the closing of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Norway in Bulgaria, I would like to point out the following. First, Saudi Arabia is one of the founding countries of the United Nations and has been a member of it since 24 October 1945; a full subject of international law; a party to dozens of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is also party, including the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Saudi Arabia is a country with an undeniable regional and international burden and is an important global energy and financial and economic factor involved in the activities of international organisations and forums. More than 100 foreign diplomatic and consular missions and representations of international organisations are accredited in the Saudi capital of Riyadh. Among them are embassies of leading world powers, representations of many countries from Europe and the world. In Riyadh is accredited and regional delegation of the European Union. The opening of our embassy in Saudi Arabia has repeatedly been at stake in the programmes and in the budgets for the development of our diplomatic service. There has been a clear understanding that the creation of an effective working embassy in a large and important country, such as Saudi Arabia, requires the separation of serious financial and personnel resources. After all, precisely problems related to budgetary constraints have prevented the opening of the Bulgarian Embassy in Riyadh so far. An expression of the desire to find a solution to the issue of Bulgarian diplomatic representation in Saudi Arabia is the appointment of experienced Arab Nikolay Nikolov, who is a long-standing diplomat, an extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, based in Sofia. Bulgaria's obviously growing role in the political and economic processes in the region, as well as our country's ability to successfully fulfil the role of a bridge between the Arab world and the European Union, has prompted the Saudi country to take first steps towards opening its permanent diplomatic representation in Bulgaria. In April-May 2015 in Sofia was a Saudi expert delegation for talks on the opening of a Saudi Embassy in Bulgaria. The Saudi side has shown interest in the exchange of terrains or buildings on a reciprocal basis. The opportunity for a future Bulgarian mission in Saudi Arabia to provide properties in the diplomatic neighborhood of Riyadh in exchange for properties provided by the Bulgarian country for the Saudi diplomatic representation in Sofia is outlined. Following the meetings and talks at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the visit of the Saudi team on 21 and 22 April 2015, visits and a view of the properties of the Fund of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Property, offered by ADIS Ltd. were organized. At the end of her visit, the delegation informed that, with the assistance of the Bulgarian-Saudiian Business Council, she could also look at private properties in the capital. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not received any formal notification of the choice of the Saudi side. It has not made any other requests for assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on that issue. On 5 October 2015, Saudi Arabia officially informed us that it opens its diplomatic representation in Sofia, which will be led by a temporary managing councillor. The decision the Saudi side has made for the time being is to rent a property. It is no secret that Saudi Arabia is a centre of extreme influence in the Muslim world. At the same time, we believe that it is not justified to link the fact of the opening of diplomatic representation of a foreign country with activities in the implementation of religious or radical propaganda. The functions of diplomatic representations, as well as the rights and obligations of their members, are clearly regulated in the relevant international documents. The rules for action in the event of breach of these norms are also established. In this context, it is appropriate to note that, regardless of official or informal information on possible links of individuals from Saudi Arabia with radicalism or propaganda of radical Islam around the world, there is no evidence that any civilised state has allowed itself to impose extraordinary restrictions on the activities of Saudi diplomatic representations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no information about the wish of the Saudi diplomatic representation in Sofia to undertake a mosque construction, for example. In case he gets an official request for this, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will hand it over on its own. As regards the question you have raised regarding the closure of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Norway in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ambassador of Norway made official explanations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the decision is part of the plan to reduce the number of Norwegian embassies for financial reasons and that this will in no way affect our bilateral relations. The Ambassador pointed out that the opening of an Honorary Consulate General in Sofia will help preserve bilateral co-operation. In the framework of the talks at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Norwegian side also confirmed its commitment to the current and previous support under the funds of the European Economic Area, and in particular the so-called "Norwegian Fund" in which Bulgaria is the third largest beneficiary with a tendency for increased funding during the new programming period of the Fund. It was confirmed that the Fund will continue to be useful to both countries and that Bulgaria is a close friend and partner of Norway in the field of business and was given a high appreciation for the work of the Bulgarian-Norwegian business group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u319	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Mrs. Tasheva, the line. I hope you'll be shorter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u320	The very fact, Mr. Minister, that the embassies in Sofia, Lusaka and Harare were closed, that is, Bulgaria was placed on an equal footing with Zimbabwe and Zambia, talking about the attitude of the Kingdom of Norway to their diplomatic presence in Bulgaria. As for the praises you have said here, for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, yes, this kingdom is one of the founders of the United Nations, but it is the only Member State, it seems to me, perhaps together with Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which deny the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and definitely do not respect it. Does that mean anything to you? That is, I say again, an Asian satrapium in which women are still stoned; people are beheaded on the streets; Europeans are forbidden to walk on the streets; for you are wearing a cross, but do not give God a Bible in hand, you are going to prison and you are facing a death sentence. This is the Asian satrapia you are bringing into Bulgaria. It does not hide its intentions to buy out the most powerful means of producing a nation of land. And here you're defending that choice. We believe that the opening of an embassy of this satrapia in Bulgaria is extremely dangerous for Bulgaria's national security because it is already known that nine million were given to spread and promote Salafi Islam in the Eastern Rhodopes and other regions with mixed populations in Bulgaria, a testimony of which, by the way, to this long-standing activity of Wahabits from Riyad is also the illegal mosque of Abu Bekir. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We insist that you do not allow permanent accreditation of a Saudi ambassador and their representation to remain, at least for now, at the level of a temporary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u321	Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u322	... at the Marinella Hotel.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u323	... Vee, Mrs. Tasheva. A hole, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u324	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I suggest that we lower our speaking degrees and approach quite rationally and pragmatically. Each country has mechanisms to protect itself from unwanted influences that come on top of it contrary to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and all international rules of interstate communication. I don't know where you got that particular data, I'm, frankly, surprised at the very least. But anyway, the Bulgarian state has all the mechanisms to protect itself from unwanted influences. This is also going through another type of legislative solution that may be made clear in the near future. Either way, today also passed a law which, I assume, you are reporting and reading in the same direction. Do not doubt that the Bulgarian government will not allow any unwanted influence or influence of radical Islam and so on. At the same time, I didn't read Pan-Agency about anyone here, any eulogy, I gave very objective and clear data. The Saudi country is a major and significant factor both in international relations and on a bilateral basis. We will develop these relations, according to all the rules of interstate communication and the conduct of each diplomatic officer on our territory must be in line with those rules. We won't allow anything else. We have also given examples of this in the very recent past in relation to other countries. You remember them, we had a conversation about it. So be assured that what you have presented here, in so far as it is true, part of it, frankly, is exaggerated, but that is your opinion. We will not allow any influence of radical Islamist groups. This is part of the global agenda and must, of course, be taken all measures to prevent such influences. At the same time, however, we cannot directly bind the Saudi country and official authorities to such thinking. There are rules of interstate relations and they will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u325	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I gave you about a minute more time because this statement by the Foreign Minister was important to me. The last question provided in today's parliamentary control, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Daniel Mitov will answer, is by the MP Velizar Enchev and he is about the promised by the Bulgarian prime minister unconditional support for the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u326	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 22 August this year, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov sent a congratulations letter to Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vučić regarding Vučić's election to this post. The letter says, I quote, "We unconditionally support the Republic of Serbia in its desire to become a member of the European Union." Mr. Minister, my question to you is as follows: why does Bulgaria unconditionally support Serbia's membership in the European Union when the rights and freedoms of the Bulgarian minority continue to be violated in the Western suburbs? Why should Bulgaria instead use its status as a member of the European Union and set conditions for Serbia whose implementation by the Serbian country will improve the situation of our compatriots in these very Bulgarian lands, we give unconditional support through the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria? Why, with a light hand, Minister, are we playing our European advantages and when, if not now, when we are a member of the European Union and holding the key to Serbia's European membership, can we put conditions before Belgrade to improve the situation of the Bulgarian minority in the Western suburbs? When I say 'I look forward to the situation in the Western outskirts', I mean, first of all, the educational aspect, more precisely the study of the Bulgarian language, both in Bosilegrad and in Krasibrodsko. Also the preservation of the Bulgarian military graves of World War I, as there are many cases of defamation of such graves. When we talk about Macedonia, let us not forget that in the Western suburbs this is a practice with which we are already used to it, the Bulgarian country hardly reacts. I am also referring to the anti-Bulgarian campaign, which is repeated in every September with the support of official Serbian institutions on the occasion of the release of the Western outskirts from the so-called occupation by the Bulgarian occupation corps. These are the facts that require us to place these factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u327	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Mitov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Enchev, before I begin my exhibition, I would like to draw your attention to a very important circumstance. In the text of the letter of congratulating Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to his Serbian counterpart Aleksandar Vučić, sent on the occasion of the formation of the new Serbian government, there is nowhere the combination of unconditional support for the European integration of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps this formulation is the result of a false media interpretation of a protocol congratulations letter. In Mr. Borisov's official congratulations letter to Mr. Vučić, the Bulgarian support for the Euro-Atlantic is stated. I stress the perspective of the Republic of Serbia and the right of European citizens to be part of the European family. I believe that everyone will agree with me that the negotiating path to membership cannot be taken away from the perspective of a European future, which is also the most powerful incentive for implementing the necessary reforms on the road to membership of the European Union. In the negotiation process with the Republic of Serbia, our country is conducting through its positions a principled and consistent policy in defence of the Bulgarian national interest. Our actions take into account the specific opportunities for impact within the negotiation process and make full use of the mechanisms with which our country as a member of the European Union has, both independently and in close coordination with other member states. With regard to the rights of the Bulgarian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, I can assure you that their protection is our top priority in the entire negotiation process of the Republic of Serbia from its very beginning. Our European partners have become convinced of our principled position on this issue, which has shown an expression in the dynamics of the negotiations. As a concrete example, I can point out part of the text of the latest Council enlargement conclusions of December 2015 behind which all Member States of the European Union stand, namely, I quote: the Republic of Serbia must pay particular attention to unconditional respect for fundamental rights, including the protection of the most vulnerable groups, as well as the effective application of minority protection legislation, non-discriminatory treatment of national minorities across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including in the field of education, the use of minority languages, access to media and religious services in minority languages. In the framework of the negotiation process, the rights of minorities are mainly addressed, but not only within the scope of Chapter Twenty-third of the Court's system and fundamental rights. There are, for example, common points with this topic in negotiating Chapter ten. Negotiation chapters twenty-three "Judicial System and Fundamental Rights" and twenty-four "Justice" "Justice and Security" which were opened in July 2016 are subject to the so-called "New approach in the negotiations" which gives fundamental importance to the subject of the rule of law and human rights. In addition to being among the first to be opened by the country, these two chapters also contain the so-called intermediate performance indicators that strengthen the opportunities for rigorous monitoring of progress. When reform delays have been found, the balance clause can be activated and a decision can be taken to suspend the entire negotiation process. Bulgaria was among the Member States that insisted as a precondition for opening negotiations on Chapter twenty-three, the Republic of Serbia to prepare a special action plan for national minorities. The document was adopted by the Serbian government in March this year, and its implementation has become, again on our insistence, an intermediate indicator of the country's progress on Chapter Twenty-Three, for the implementation of which Bulgaria will closely monitor the next stages of the negotiation process. I am entering these details of the negotiation process only to illustrate our belief that it should not be blocked, but to be as precise as possible to give the necessary incentive and framework for the implementation of specific measures that will effectively improve the situation of our minority in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a reply.. the public representative Mr. Velizar Enchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u330	Mr. Minister, thank you for the information you provided us. At least this is the first time I have heard of what you have said that in the negotiation process with the Republic of Serbia has already existed since March this year, a balance clause, which is extremely important from a diplomatic point of view, for which I congratulate you. At the same time, I would like to remind you that just an hour and a half ago in the National Assembly of Mr. Ivan Nikolov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Cultural and Information Centre in Bosilegrad, was awarded the European Union's Personality of the Year. This award, Mr. Minister, was awarded to him for the protection of the rights of the Bulgarians in the Western suburbs, for the damaged rights of the Bulgarians in the Western outskirts, because obviously the European Union, the European Commission has assessed, and the jury that gives out these awards has judged that Mr. Nikolov, in these 27 years, has defended these rights, i.e. these rights have been violated, not to say violated. In this sense, I would recommend the practice that you are familiar with, but I use the occasion of this high tribune to remind you that when you talk about close coordination with other European partners in the negotiation process with Serbia, I should tell you what the practice of Romania and Croatia is. Romania, on August 18th of this year, in the face of former President Traian Basescu, officially said, who is currently President of the People's Movement and there is no doubt that the current Romanian leadership is behind it, that Serbia will be blocked for membership in the European Union, I quote: If it does not fully respect the bilateral agreements on the protection of the rights of the Romanian minority in Serbia. This was also transferred to Serbian media. Also in 2012, when Mr Basescu was president, he refused to sign the agreement on Serbia's EU bid, asking and not receiving then, four years ago, guarantees for the rights of the Romanian minority in Serbia. I am showing you a dignified and categorically principled behavior on the Romanian side. And since I have been Ambassador to Croatia, I am now quoting to you what Croatia's threats were just six months ago with regard to Serbia. This is, of course, about a very different case, which has nothing to do with Bulgarian practice, as it is about the civil war in Yugoslavia. The head of Croatian diplomacy said Croatia would block talks on Chapter twenty-three if Serbia does not give up on the translation here, so I find it a little difficult to implement the universal law on war crimes with regard to Croatian veterans in Serbian territory. After the Serbian country said it would not apply these repressive measures to Croatian veterans, Croatia announced it would withdraw its remarks to Chapter Twenty-third. I am setting an example of active diplomatic activity. I hope and believe that you will take this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u331	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For the doppelganger? Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u332	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, thank you for assessing the efforts of Bulgarian diplomacy so far and the results achieved, and they have been achieved precisely through close coordination with the countries you have mentioned. You must remember that right after the statement you quoted, I had a visit to Zagreb and I also made certain requests, which then took a specific form in the negotiations to open chapters twenty-three and twenty-four. I've already quoted what I've achieved, I won't repeat it, of course. You understand me perfectly because you're an experienced diplomat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u333	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question in today's parliamentary control that you answer. Have a good job. We move on to the responses of the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolai Nenchev. The first question is from the MP Velizar Enchev on the mandate of the Bulgarian military contingent in Afghanistan. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u334	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, the Military Ministry has announced a public contract to hire satellite and satellite equipment to ensure constant communication between the Bulgarian troops in Afghanistan and the Armed Forces Headquarters in Sofia. The public procurement, according to the Ministry's website, has a deadline until 22 November 2021 and is worth a total of 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. with VAT. It is understood, however, that the Bulgarian contingent in Afghanistan will remain in this country for another five years, but such a decision has not been discussed or taken in the National Assembly. My question to you is this: on what basis, Mr. Minister, do you declare a contract with such a term of execution after the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria has not extended the mandate of the Bulgarian contingent in Afghanistan until 2021? However, let me remind you that the National Assembly is the legislative body, and the executive body is the head of your Ministry and cannot stand above the legislative body, but perhaps you will make some clarification, is it not a mistake, or is it really a violation of a constitutional norm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u335	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u336	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Enchev, National contingent management by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria participating in the NATO mission in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is carried out through satellite communications. For this purpose, since the beginning of our participation, five-year contracts for satellite transmission have been concluded. For this reason, the Ministry of Defence has announced a contract with the subject of "Providing satellite transmission in the direction of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the maximum period of five years." The reasons for indicating this maximum period are related to the extreme importance of communication for carrying out the national government of the contingent and for providing a number of other communication and information services for the needs of the Bulgarian servicemen. If we conclude a contract for a shorter period and the mission lasts longer than the term provided for in the contract, we risk interrupting the communication service, which is unacceptable and extremely dangerous, you understand that yourself. In order to protect the interests of the Ministry of Defence in the new draft contract, however, it is clearly stated that the request is terminated upon termination of the contingent mission. The payment will be made weekly after the service is performed. A possibility to terminate the provision of a satellite service with one month's notice by the Ministry of Defence is envisaged. Finally, I would like to stress that with the announcement of this contract we have guaranteed long-term satellite communication with the Bulgarian contingent. Secondly, we have created an opportunity for early termination of the contract, if necessary. And thirdly, we only pay for the periods in which we used the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u337	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u338	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I must admit, even to the surprise of myself, that for the first time, although we have exceptional differences on fundamental issues of foreign and military policy, for the first time I agree and am satisfied with your response, because indeed the clause that you pointed out in the treaty is fully satisfactory from a financial point of view for Bulgaria, so if that is the case, and obviously I have no reason not to believe you, I congratulate you on this treaty. In this sense, perhaps your mistake was that on the website of the Ministry you did not carry out all these details so as not to ask this unnecessary question, because at first reading what was presented on the website of the Ministry, the impression that remained with me and everyone was precisely that the contract was not profitable for Bulgaria. I really congratulate you on this successful contract. However, this gives me reason to say once again that the mandate of the Bulgarian contingent in Afghanistan is, after all, determined by this authority, the Bulgarian legislative parliament and not by the Ministry. After all, if we have to, God forbid, extend the mandate of the Bulgarian contingent, this decision will be taken here and not elsewhere. On this occasion, I take the opportunity to say that you, as I have heard from Prime Minister Borisov, have received an order and commitment to talk to the Afghan side about taking back Afghan refugees, migrants or whatever you want to call them, so I wish you success in this mission, which in some respects is much more important than the presence of the Bulgarian contingent in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u339	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? You did not receive thanks from the MP. We move on to the next and last issue for today and he is from the National Representative Mr. Angel Naydenov on the expenses of the Ministry of Defence for the maintenance of personnel and equipment involved in the security of the state border. Mr. Naydenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, obviously we will close today's parliamentary control. My question, Mr. Minister, as stated by the President of the meeting, is related to the expenses made by the Ministry of Defence to support the personnel and equipment involved in the security activities at the Bulgarian state border. We, Minister, have talked enough about the Ministry's budget. It is known that the funds are short, have not reached in previous years. Therefore, all who are involved in defence and the Armed Forces are alert when the army is burdened with additional responsibilities, especially when these responsibilities are linked to the involvement of funds. It is clear that border security tasks involve a significant financial resource, both direct and indirect, through depreciation of the equipment and equipment used. The reason for my question, Mr. Minister, is the increase in the number of contingents used to guard the border in support of the efforts of the Ministry of Interior and, of course, your intentions to increase the In this regard, Minister, I am interested in what the funds are and are they reimbursed to the budget of the Ministry of Defence? Because, unfortunately, the frequent practice of being absolutely unacceptable, the costs that makes the Ministry of Defence on tasks that are beyond the basic tasks of the army not to be reimbursed and to remain at the expense of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u341	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Naydenov, Dear Gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to thank you for the question, because costs are really rising many times from what we have pawned. They are unfortunately not provided for in the Ministry's budget. In carrying out the tasks of support the actions of the state authorities to control the situation caused by increased migratory pressure at the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, material and financial resources not provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2016. At this time, for spare parts, equipment, batteries, tires, vehicles, fuel, oils and special liquids have been used by................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 400,000. lv. According to preliminary estimates, the necessary costs by the end of 2016 will amount to 4 million. 391,000. 500 leva. Or a total of 7 million. 438 thousand. lv. As you know, thanks to the efforts of the Prime Minister, at the meeting of the European Council in Bratislava on 17 September, the decision was made to allocate 108 million euros to Bulgaria's needs and the aim is to reach 160 million euros. This is a kind of success for the Bulgarian government, an expression of solidarity by our European partners. More than once, dear Mr. Naydenov, I have had talks with both the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. I have their assurance and I am optimistic that the funds spent by the Ministry of Defence budget will be recovered and the necessary additional funds will be provided as early as this year. I hope that we will also clarify within a short period of time the mechanism for providing these funds, so that we can be calm about financial security in the performance of these tasks. As you rightly pointed out, by my order I am extremely committed and grateful to these people I will increase the overtime costs of 300 BGN. 500 leva. As soon as next month, and in the middle of next month. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u343	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Naydenov, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Thanks for the answer. But I'm worried about what you told me, Mr. Minister. I understand that you are also concerned about the fact that these are funds that are not provided under the Ministry's budget. Secondly, there are not sufficient guarantees that these funds will be recovered. I want to make it clear that we will not miss the opportunity to control whether the Ministry of Finance, respectively the government will retribute the Ministry of Defence with reimbursement of the costs that have been incurred. It does not make any sense that the funds should remain at the expense of the Ministry's budget, especially when they have not been read and are likely not to be read in view of the risks and, accordingly, the increasing potential threats in terms of the number of refugees. That is why I think, Minister, that it should be insisted not only in view of the new budgetary procedure, but in view of the expectations of the servicemen, you yourself as Minister, the Ministry of Finance, to ensure the recovery of these funds. Secondly, I am convinced that you must make absolutely reasonable your demands and your proposals that some of these funds be allocated to the Ministry with additional equipment. This is to be a technique that is owned by the Ministry, not to be used as a kind of loan-like property of the Ministry of Interior, because it is necessary for you. Obviously, these tasks will not be completed within 2016. Therefore, these funds should be.. I am referring to the additional funds allocated by the European Council and the Commission, respectively, to be allocated to the Ministry of Defence. That is to say, we have one cost reimbursement, a second cost reimbursement to be allocated to equipment and supplies to the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u345	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u346	Mr. Naydenov, thank you for your concern. I very much appreciate your efforts. They were always available when needed. I would like to stress once again that I have received the Prime Minister's assurance that these funds I hope we get for next year and more, and they will be provided for and embedded in the budget, because you are right. Most likely, I am of your opinion, the refugee flow crisis will not be resolved within this year. I'm even afraid it won't be resolved within the next one. I will be extremely careful in every respect, and I will do everything I can, amongst other things the weather begins to cool, and we need to think about additional funds. These people live and work under extremely difficult conditions. We need to secure additional funds for possible wagons and their accommodation and everything else, because obviously this process will require additional effort and empathy from both the government and the opposition, for which I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-30.u347	This was the last answer to an up-to-date question provided for in today's parliamentary control agenda. Before closing the sitting, I shall announce the next regular plenary session on 5 October 2016, Wednesday, 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
