ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, by letter No 653-18-15 of 10 March 2016 the National Assembly submitted an Annual Report 2015 to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the completion of programmes co-financed by European Union funds and the countries of the European Economic Area during the 2007-2013 programming period, as well as the progress made on programming programmes 2014-2020. The documents are provided in electronic form in Section "Documents" on the website of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The same report was distributed to the MPs electronically to their service e-mails. According to our weekly programme as point one for today, we have agreed to discuss and vote at first reading: LAWS FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONFORMITY. Importers: Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov the first bill, and a second bill with importers: Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov, Georgi Kovachev, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. There has been a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov will brief us on the contents of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 654-01-15, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Petar Pandushev Chobanov on 19 February 2016, and the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 654-01-23, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Georgi Aleksandrov Kovachev, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Petar Pandushev Chobanov on 24 February 2016. At its meeting on 1 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above two draft laws. The meeting was attended by Mr. Borislav Stratev, member of the Management Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks. The motives of the bills were presented by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The bill amending and supplementing Bankruptcy Act No 654-01-15 aims to prevent and further protect citizens' interests, by illuminating facts and circumstances relating to the company's declared in bankruptcy, as well as other credit institutions. The draft law proposes the incorporation of an obligation on the trade union to publish the status report of the credit institution's assets, irrespective of agreed confidentiality clauses. The proposed amendments and additions to Bankruptcy Act No 654-01-23 aim at improving the legal framework of the insolvency proceedings by uniformising the time limits and procedures between the Civil Procedure Code and those of the Bankruptcy Act. The rights and obligations of the trade union, its remuneration, the period of accountability, the manner in which the parties are called and the service of communications in the proceedings and the possibility of the trade union being able to agree on the amount of legal fees lower than the amount of remuneration determined in accordance with art. 36, para. 2 of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Minimum Sizes of the Law of the Supreme Council of Laws. Mr. Stratev expressed his opinion that it is customary in the contracts for consulting services to have a confidentiality clause and expressed the reservation regarding the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy No 654-01-15 and supported the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Bankruptcy No 654-01-23. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Delchev, Philip Popov, Emil Dimitrov, Chavdar Georgiev and Dimitar Lazarov took part in the discussion. The MPs expressed their support on both bills and agreed that some of the texts should be refined. They welcomed the proposed legislative measures aimed at publicising and transparency the facts established before the beginning of the work of the Syndicates aimed at revealing to the public the persons responsible for the bankruptcy of a Corporate Commercial Bank. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 10 votes in favour of the Bankruptcy Act, No 654-01-15, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Petar Pandushev Chobanov on 19 February 2016; - with 13 votes for the Bankruptcy Act, No 654-01-23, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Georgi Aleksandrov Kovachev, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Emil Dimitrov Simeonov, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Petar Pandushev Chobanov on 24 February 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We move on to the presentation of the bills on behalf of their importers. The first bill is with importers Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. He will be represented by Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill, as it is short, was presented very well by the President of the Legal Commission. I will complete only part of the motives and history that imposes this amendment in the Bankruptcy Act. You remember that last year we adopted texts in this same Law, which enabled the bank's insolvency syndicates to hire a company with international experience to follow the processes in the bank, and also to help return parts or what is possible to be returned to the bankruptcy table of the bank in question which went bankrupt. In the course of the discussion in the adoption of these texts, I would like to remind you that the main assumption was protection of public interest through publicity, there is no doubt that in such a bank, not only at CCB, but also in possible subsequent cases, God forbid, society will be well informed about the processes, actions or omissions which led to the bankruptcy and bankruptcy of this credit institution. After the company was hired, later when submitting the report we realized that at the insistence of the company or of the Syndicates we have no clarity on the issue, there is a confidentiality clause and the public cannot get acquainted with the investigations made by this independent company with international experience and authority. In the subsequent discussion in the media space it became clear that the public interest in this report was great. For this reason, we have decided that we must take a legislative initiative, as we see no other opportunity for this report to become public. These are the main reasons why we tabled the amendment to the Bankruptcy Act, led solely by the public interest, because the whole discussion about the bankruptcy of KTB shows that the best protection of the public interest is transparency. I believe that you will all support this Bill, which, by the way, is an expression of our common will Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u5	The second bill will be presented by Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! About two weeks ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs received an extensive letter from the President of the Sofia City Court, in which more than seven pages presented procedural problems in relation to the upcoming cases concerning objections to accepted or unpaid claims. This share is expected to be more than 300, even more than 400. Since the issue of bank bankruptcy under the bankruptcy law adopted in 2002 is in practice applied for the first time in the event of the first bankruptcy of a banking institution, it appears that a large part of the rules do not comply with the procedural law and the general insolvency status, including with regard to the time limits for calling and announcing a large part of the insolvency proceedings and the operation of the trade union. This puts the courts which will deal with disputes concerning creditors' claims concerning CCB in a particularly difficult situation, including with regard to the possibility of complying with the procedural time limits which are extremely short in such proceedings. Given that we have an already developed Commercial Register and that a large part of the commercial information relating to insolvency is announced to creditors and debtors through the Commercial Register, one of the quick ways to achieve such notification, but not to chicify the procedure of calling, is the notification, respectively the call to be made by entering the Commercial Register. In this respect, rules concerning the formation of the composition as well as the distribution of groups of objections in individual compositions are proposed so as not to give rise to the possibility of multiple different judicial acts at the same case, dispute or the same action. The other group of proposals included in our bill come from the practice of the Fund for Guarantee of Claims, the Ministry of Finance and the previous authorities on property, which concern a large part of remuneration issues. As I have also told you in the report, as regards the legal fees, it is envisaged that the syndics may negotiate lower prices than those regulated in the law, the Law on Lawyers and Ordinance No 1 on Minimum Lawyers' Salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u7	Mr. Kirilov, I'm sorry. Remember that. Dear MPs, guests of the National Assembly today are the Minister of Education and Culture of the Republic of Indonesia Anis Basuedan and a delegation led by him. Please welcome our guests to the building of the Bulgarian Parliament! [[People's representatives are becoming right. Long applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u8	The possibility of reducing the remuneration for the lawyers is dictated for two main reasons: first of all, not to burden the mass of insolvency with a larger amount of legal fees, and second reason is that more than 400 cases are pending in the group only accepted-unaccepted objections. To a large extent, they are uniform, i.e. it is assumed that legal protection will be organised in these cases in the same way, with fewer costs. With regard to the remuneration of the trade union, incompleteness is being completed, since so far this remuneration has been determined by a specific deadline, and should actually be determined to a specific action when we already have a real base to determine it on the basis of the cashed property. The period of reporting shall be changed from weekly to monthly. This is about the actions the Syndicates have taken. It is according to the amendment of the autumn of the Law, in which we obliged the Syndicates to publish information weekly. Since bankruptcy is already in a more advanced phase, this is no longer necessary and further burdening the activities of the trade union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The debate is open. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am in the mood to support both bills. I'm surprised that the DPS group isn't all the importers in the room, because the more important bill should be here to protect it. But that's not the most important question, of course. The report from the international investigation must be public, ladies and gentlemen. Notice, it is written: except for the recommendations on recovery of claims made in the report. Therefore, the recommendations on recovery of claims will not be public, which means that recovery of claims will not be compromised. I mean, that's not the case. But the more important question comes, is the omission that the report is becoming public, but the contract itself is not? Therefore, between first and second readings, as we will support both laws, we address all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the importers of the two laws, you support us between first and second readings, so that the contract for the award of the international investigation becomes public. Why is this so important? Firstly, because we in the Reformation Block cannot understand, we cannot explain why the international investigation is limited to writing a report. Guys, this was a different idea, wasn't it? I thought the idea was for the international investigation firm to participate directly in the collection of bad loans on the principle of each raised lev to have some commission to stimulate the collection of bad loans? Isn't that how billions of euros and dollars were collected back in Ireland and the United States? Why are things limited to what we currently have in Bulgaria? And are they limited to what we have right now? We don't really know and we're very embarrassed. Even yesterday we gave a special tribune with colleagues Valeri Simeonov, Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov because on various occasions the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria mentions a contract with a different company. Once says a firm, twice says a second firm. This puzzles us and is an additional argument and reason to want to see the contract. What firm does he have a contract with? And is this contract limited to writing an analytical report, or does it have the second much more important part of the collection of money, the participation of the specific company in the specific collection of that money? Because if things stop here, honourable Members, what's the use, and what was the point of the international investigation?! If the purpose of the international investigation, according to some of you or some people in Bulgaria, was only to say that there was an international investigation and that things would stop here, there was no benefit and logic to do this thing at all! The purpose of the international investigation is to collect the money at least part of it, return the money to the bankruptcy table, and the second part to the disclosure of the persons involved. In the Bill submitted by colleagues from the DPS, although not all importers are present in the Chamber, we see that they want to seek the truth. That's what it looks like right now, or that's what they're asking for. We don't know how sincere it is, but such a request has been made. Colleagues, we call for your support for the publicity of the treaty and, secondly, the most important thing is for the international company to engage in the collection of the money. This is an important issue on which Parliament can make its recommendation. Such contracts we cannot conclude. It is none of our business, but Parliament may make such a recommendation and ask the international company to participate directly in the collection of the money. What should the Syndicates do in my opinion? I'm saying it as an opinion. We are a legislative body, but on this point we can have an opinion and it can be made public. Syndicate should divide bad loans into two groups. To tell them that they would collect them themselves, that they could collect them and take responsibility. For the other part of the bad loans they have to say that here they can't handle themselves, that they need an international company to help them cope and some of what is collected to be given as a commission. So if there's nothing collected, there's no payment to the international company. I'm saying this so there's no speculation. The more it is collected, the greater the payment that will stimulate the return of the money. This is our public interest, colleagues. The public interest is to return the money so that the two-billion-dollar loan that we authorised can be returned to the State and that the conscientious creditors of the CCB can get their money back. Colleagues, we will support the bill, and following the transparency drive that we feel, we believe that you will also support us for these changes between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. First line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, yes, we will support you in these proposals. As I said at the presentation of the Bill, many times in the Commission and in the public domain, no publicity and transparency on this issue is necessary. On the contrary, any confidentiality is unnecessary even when it violates principles such as banking and commercial secrecy. Because this is about a huge public interest, about the further stability of the banking system by crossing vicious practices. So all your suggestions that you just talked about, we will support them. Because even when we were making the first amendment, I made the work of making the speeches that we, you and all of our colleagues in the Commission and in the Chamber talked about exactly that when such a company was hired, it should be involved in tracing and returning the flows, as well as the contract. I will go further and the assignment for this contract! Everything must be public in order to have complete clarity of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u13	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Dimitrov, everything you have said sounds very good, only we need to clearly and categorically realise that the Law has no retroactive effect, that is, it cannot act in reverse and reverse. Or if such a proposal is made, it must be provided for that publicity and transparency to become a fact. The second thing that is also good to say now is that payments under these contracts do not happen with public funds, but are a private resource in which we unfortunately have no control. I understand, and I absolutely agree, that we must do everything possible to give greater transparency and, most importantly, to return the funds in the public important case with CCB. But you mostly comment on possible clauses of a contract between two legal entities. I can't explain how in law we will regulate clauses of a private contract in this case commercial. Here, too, we need to approach much more legal thought so that these things can be cleaned up so that we don't fall into a dead end again. You know how many times we've walked, asked, questioned, and out of nine ravens of water we've been brought to us and finally we've seen how far we've come. That's my line to you, purely well-meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u15	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bayraktarov, you're not fully executed today as you were yesterday. In this regard, I would like to tell you: our impression on this treaty is that because the procedures are not fully completed, there will be no retroactive effect. The second, more important question that you have also put out of this tribune concerns the fact that the Syndicates have concluded the treaty and what the Parliament may have to do with it. That's a very important question. However, keep in mind that the Syndicates are appointed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Since the Syndicates are appointed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Management Board of the Fund is formed as follows: a representative is appointed by the Council of Ministers, one of the Bulgarian National Bank, they together appoint two more and the last member of the Board of Directors is appointed by the Association of Commercial Banks, i.e. it seems that government representatives have a significant representation in the Deposit Guarantee Fund and can offer, can participate in the decision-making process. This is the path we're going to use. As a parliament, we can speak our minds. My opinion is, I believe that your opinion, you also heard from colleague Tsonev the opinion that the international company should engage in the collection of the money from now on. Yes, we cannot sign it as a contract, we cannot participate in the signing of such contracts, but it is appropriate after today's meeting with the help of fellow journalists to hear and understand that this is the recommendation that we make. The following is also to be understood: if our recommendation that an international company engage in the collection of the money is not accepted, this means that the syndics and the Deposit Guarantee Fund, Mr. Bajraktarov, undertake to deal with it themselves; to collect everything and achieve results comparable to the average in the world in such cases. So they take on this huge responsibility that I don't know if they can handle. Therefore, within a short period of time, we should expect from the Minister of Finance, who has practically proposed the representative of the Council of Ministers to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, to request from his representative, the person he proposed there, a solution to this issue or a proposal on this subject. Can the Syndicates handle it on their own? I doubt it! Probably draining CCB is a complex process, money has moved into multiple jurisdictions, and tracking them is hard work. That is why it is important, in my opinion, and according to the group that I represent, to engage an international firm in the investigation and return of the money. Now is the last moment and it is high time to hear the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the Syndicates commit themselves to whether they can handle themselves. I say they can hardly handle themselves. This is an important issue in today's debate. Otherwise, with regard to the reply of colleague Tsonev, I am glad that they will support the treaty to become public, so that we can see exactly what is signed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Another MP? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I also use to ask the importers or rather the importer I see in the Chamber. Something that, as a lawyer, worries me because for a really long time with colleagues Dimitrov, Valeri Simeonov, Metodi Andreev and others, we are fighting for publicity on this contract, but we have always realized that this publicity should be consistent with not suffering damage and damage. So a long time ago, we went to court to demand this information precisely with the assumption that we do not know what the treaty was about and whether there were some heavy penalties written for the state, if it became public, not by, say, a court order, but by the whim of the executive power, figuratively speaking. That is why I am using to ask you: do you have information in this contract because it has repeatedly been refused to us by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, we do not really know what it says........................................................................... Do you have any information as to whether there is a danger if, by legislative act, the National Assembly obliges the already concluded treaty to become public, does the state, not seeing the real benefits of this entire investigation so far, hope that I am wrong, but not seeing real benefits at least not suffering serious damage? I'm really asking you, do you have any information about such a penalty clause? And I have another note that I think we should consider between the two readings. You are talking about not announcing the recommendations for recovery of claims. I think you will agree with me that it is also important that the recommendations on securing claims are also not disclosed, because they are no less important, they actually precede recovery of claims. If the assets are not secured in due time, I would say, immediately, meaning they must have been secured a long time ago, if this is not done, it is clear to everyone that they have long been through nine lands in tenth and will be difficult to collect. So, Mr. Tsonev, please, if you could take an attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u19	First line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Slavov, we also had concerns before we proposed the Bill. I hoped that the representatives of the Fund, even the Syndicates, would be in the Commission to ask them these questions to answer. I'm sorry this didn't happen. I don't know what reasons, but we can invite them over at the second reading. I personally bothered to call Mr. Milenkov and ask him if it wasn't a secret, if he could tell us if there would be penalties, is there any danger that the state would suffer such damage? He said there wasn't any danger. You said the recommendations still need to remain confidential so we wouldn't interfere with the recovery of the claims. Indeed, they are of the opinion that the recommendations should remain confidential, as they contained specific things... we do not know them in terms of collection. You are right to add to this the recommendations on collateral, so between first and second reading this will be a good correction and I agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u21	Second line, please, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u22	Dear Mr. Slavov, you've read the recommendations we saw there, you know there's absolutely nothing confidential about them. Even if they are discovered today, nothing will happen, all the more so that the report is from September 23rd. To this day, if these recommendations are not fulfilled, they no longer make any sense. The collateral's long gone. Dear colleagues, there is nothing to wonder, both laws are good, both laws suggest more transparency, openness and clarity what the Syndicates do, what the companies employed by the Debt Guarantee Fund do, how they work with the Syndicates and ultimately what money they collect. Because, unfortunately, from the work of Alix partners, there is not one lev collected, and we all expected them to tell us a few things: how many leva have they collected, who are the politicians behind the bad loans of the bank, where did the money go, where are the offshore accounts, how much money in them? None of this is happening. When there is none of this, it means that someone somewhere along the track has mistakenly given them a bad task, has done no control over what they have done, has made them do a purely audit accounting work to a large extent that any Bulgarian audit company can do. Therefore, the only way to work well is under pressure, and the pressure becomes with publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kadyev, I'll start with the back of your head. As a matter of fact, not all the references I was able to read because I didn't bring a magnifying glass. I think those who have really seen the report will understand. There were some graphics that were quite important, but with such small print that it actually required carrying aids to read. In fact, in order to get back to the serious topic, the really important issue here I thank Mr. Tsonev for supporting us is not to talk in informal talks with representatives of the Fund and to give them some information. They must come to the meeting of the Budget Committee, make it known to the Commission, this information must be requested to them under the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly and they must make it official and ensure that such benefits are not of any use and that such problems should not be of any kind. They also need to answer one more question and not get away with the convenient answer that they always give us when we ask them a question from the pressure group (s) about anything related to this treaty, that there was a confidentiality clause and couldn't give that information, but to respond to the MPs and to the Commission very clearly to say in this treaty are there any penalty clauses, is there an opportunity for the next company to engage in the collection itself? Not to write any reports, but to engage in the collection of funds, including without being paid additional amounts, but as a possible percentage of the collected this or another company. For these things they have to respond and cannot hide behind confidentiality clauses or anything else and refuse the MPs this information in one, for me, absurd way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u25	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 654-01-15, submitted by Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov on 19 February 2016. Vote 128 MPs: 124, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 654-01-23, submitted by Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov, Georgi Kovachev, Petar Slavov, Emil Simeonov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov on 24 February 2016. Vote 146 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 1. The motion is passed, the bill is voted on at first reading. We move on to the last item of our legislative programme for this week: FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PHINES -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Then we got acquainted with the lead report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, as well as the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, held meetings that day and have already submitted reports. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mrs. Irena Kotseva will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u26	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act No 602-01-7 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 9 March 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, who focused mainly on the changes proposing measures for financial support to municipalities with financial difficulties. The proposed changes set out the terms and conditions for opening a procedure for financial recovery of municipalities and taking a number of measures in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of local finances. Conditions are defined, the presence of which shows to what extent municipalities have financial difficulties. Where it is established that there are three or more of the conditions, the mayor of the municipality is provided to notify the municipal council that the municipality is in financial difficulty and to propose to the municipal council the opening of a procedure for financial recovery. A financial recovery procedure will be able to launch municipalities at the risk of the existence of unsecured liabilities, which in turn is linked to an increase in the deficit on their budgets. The need for financial recovery of municipalities with financial difficulties is an expression of efforts to limit the negative effects on the budgetary position and on the local community, offering opportunities to implement additional measures in revenue and expenditure in line with the risks of increasing the overdue liabilities. An opportunity was envisaged on the basis of monitoring the financial situation of the municipalities and in the presence of three or more of the conditions for announcing the municipality in financial difficulty, the Minister of Finance informed the mayor of the municipality of taking action to initiate a procedure for the financial recovery of the municipality. The Bill provides for the budgets of municipalities with an open procedure for financial recovery to be agreed in advance with the Minister of Finance and to be examined by the municipal council together with the opinion of the Minister of Finance. The scope and content of the municipality's financial recovery plan are determined and it is regulated that a financial recovery plan, which provides for the use of a temporary interest-free loan, is agreed in advance with the Minister of Finance. Temporary interest-free loans for the purpose of implementing the plan for the financial recovery of municipalities will be granted under conditions laid down by the Minister of Finance with a period of reimbursement which cannot be longer than the period of the financial recovery procedure. In the event of a deviation from the objectives of the plan, the Minister of Finance shall be allowed to suspend the lending. On a proposal from the Minister of Finance by an act of the Council of Ministers, a further subsidy from the central budget may be granted to repay interest-free loans under certain conditions, demonstrating that the necessary actions are taken to finance recovery of municipalities and to implement the plan for financial recovery. An opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria was presented to the Commission, expressing principle support for changes in legislation aimed at increasing financial stability in the municipalities. At the same time, attention was paid to the need to refine and supplement individual provisions relating to indicators of the financial situation and access of municipalities to support, to provide for early warning mechanisms for the existence of potential financial difficulties, additional preventive support measures and others. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the amendments proposed in the Bill, while paying attention to the need to refine separate provisions between the two votes, taking into account some of the remarks and proposals of the municipalities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds At its regular meeting held on 9 March 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Diana Marinova, Head of Department at the same Directorate. This bill is aimed at introducing a procedure for opening a procedure for financial recovery of municipalities and taking a number of measures in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of local finances. In this regard, indicators are set on the basis of which to assess whether and to what extent the municipalities are experiencing financial difficulties; the scope and content of the plan for the financial recovery of the municipality; requirements for mayors to ensure transparency and publicity in the actions taken on the financial recovery and others. The draft law provides for the possibility of limiting the debt taking by institutional units in the sector of the government when the debt threshold of 60% of gross domestic product is exceeded due to the fact that debt can seriously affect the level of sovereign debt in excessive deficit procedures. Provisions are also provided for regarding the collection and production of qualitative statistical information on the requirements and methodologies established by the European Commission and various international institutions. Furthermore, the Bill ensures consistency between the convergence programme of the Republic of Bulgaria, the government debt management strategy and the documents developed during the budgetary procedure. The bill proposes amendments and additions to the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Fund Fund Management Act, governing the rules for the organisation of bank accounts, related to funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, as well as the terms and conditions for the payment of financial assistance under the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Provisions shall also be revised for the intended official closure of projects; amendments shall be proposed aimed at respecting the principles of sound financial management, the responsibility of beneficiaries for the lawful implementation of projects and for the performance of eligible expenditure co-financed by European Union funds. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that the draft law does not violate the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on the requirements of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States transposed into the Bulgarian legislation by adopting the Public Finance Act in 2013. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposes by 10 votes for the European Fund, 2 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt the first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Public Finance Act, No 602-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Debates on the Draft Discussions have been opened. Anyone who wants to make a statement? [[Noise.]] Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Of course, it is good to make every effort to improve the financial discipline of municipalities, to harmonise the efforts of the Bulgarian state and our municipalities to improve the financial situation, financial discipline, which is in the interests of municipalities, citizens in these municipalities and the Bulgarian state. I would like to say at the very beginning that we have two groups of problems in this Draft Law. Some are economic, others arising from economic, are political, honourable Members. The economic problems in this Law are as follows. Firstly, in practice, if adopted as proposed by this Law, it means stimulating municipalities that do not respect financial discipline and punishing municipalities that respect financial discipline. Because, honourable Members, what is proposed in the Draft Law is that municipalities that do not respect financial discipline receive an interest-free loan from the Ministry of Finance. Let us clarify that even now there is a practice of granting an interest-free loan, which is completely objective and useful, but it is related to the granting of interest-free loans to municipalities in the implementation of the various European programmes. This practice must continue. But here it is that municipalities, which are in long-standing deficits, have accumulated debts, the Bulgarian taxpayer and the state will stimulate them with interest-free loans to cover their budget deficits. This is where the question arises: instead of taking organizational measures and seeking economic and other responsibility from the management of municipalities, which have allowed great public debt as a result of accumulated deficits, we are practically rewarding them. Dear colleagues, where will these interest-free loans come from? There's no free lunch! Interest is being taken over by someone. And by whom? From the state budget. Here I want to tell you that the Bulgarian state is facing an extreme danger. Let me remind you, fellow Members, that we are absolutely illogical and incorrect, with your majority vote, you have bound the Republic's state budget to the banks. You remember that you voted on a Law whenever there is capital inadequacy, the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria must pay. Now, if the Law is passed in this way, we taxpayers will also have to pay for the problems of each municipality. Well, it doesn't have a country like that! I guarantee you, Switzerland won't last that long. To cover the problems of the banking system, God forbid, and now to cover the problems of municipalities without interest! What do you mean?! So this is a very wrong Projection.. it will reward those who do not respect financial discipline, at the expense of those who respect it. Because, in the end, who are these reasonable mayors and municipal councils that will go to the market to draw loans to cover their deficits instead of going to the Ministry of Finance and providing an interest-free loan?! Why should we punish municipalities that respect financial discipline, manage their finances well, bind their accounts to European programmes and to the municipal budgets' own commitments, and one of us will encourage them to be encouraged by those who do not respect financial discipline? So the two sides of the economic problem, the promotion of non-respective financial discipline, at the expense of all taxpayers and the municipalities that respect it, and, secondly, it is extremely dangerous to bind municipal budgets to the state budget. In addition, the third group of economic problems is related to the financial independence of municipalities. Excuse me, we all want to support financial decentralisation related to decentralisation of municipal governance and separation of authorities. What do we do in this case? We would give her full financial dependence of municipalities from the Ministry of Finance, as there are specific texts here in the Law that give the Minister of Finance exclusive rights. These rights, honourable Members, are completely subjective. For example, Article 19 (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). 103, I quote: the Minister of Finance may extend the period for the reimbursement of the loans under the So he can extend it, but he may not prolong it, which means it's more subjective than the Minister of Finance. I'm quoting art. 130: The Minister of Finance may grant temporary interest-free loans at the expense of the central budget. Maybe he'll leave. Maybe he won't leave. Who decides? The sole minister of finance. Article 130, para. 1. Again on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, with an act of the Council of Ministers, municipalities can be granted an additional subsidy from the central budget. What do you mean?! What's with the minister of finance? And I ask: in which country of the European Union does the Minister of Finance have such rights? We checked. Nobody. What are we doing? [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, it doesn't matter who the Minister of Finance is. With democracy today is one colleague, tomorrow is another. We give amazing subjective rights to the Minister of Finance to punish or reward certain municipalities. And since this is absolutely unacceptable, I do not know if you have read the written opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In our Budget Committee, we from BSP left Bulgaria 100 percent supported their objections, as the objections of the Union of Municipalities are detailed and clear that this Draft Law violates fundamental principles and the market as a mechanism, stimulating bad discipline, and punishing those who fulfil these commitments. Finally, no matter, of course, except that there are such definite differences with the objectives and instruments used, there is also a political side to the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to all of us that the one who controls the municipalities, he largely ensures that all kinds of elections are won. In fact, there is a clear political urge here to ride the municipalities financially, to submit to a person of interest to the Minister of Finance, and by combining it, for example, with the Minister of Interior and the votes bought, the elections have been won. By objecting to the economic side of this proposal, which is absolutely unacceptable, which contradicts decentralisation and puts into financial dependence the municipalities, which with this approach rewards the poor mayors and poor governance at the expense of the good mayors, together with this, there are clear political intentions: on the carpet all mayors in the Republic of Bulgaria will depend on the will of the minister whether they receive funds or will not receive from the central budget. Finally, I want to go back to economics as an economist. The most important argument, colleagues: we have no right to put municipal budgets on the Bulgarian state budget, as too many commitments become the budget, there is no such practice in the European Union, and we are risking the financial stability of the country, which, as you know yesterday, is under the monitoring of Brussels, of the European Union. We will not support this Draft Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u32	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u33	Before you, Mr. Kovachev made a request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to start by saying that these changes that we are going to vote on today are being imposed on the basis of the analysis made to the municipal budgets by the Ministry of Finance. It is nice at the beginning of the debate to comment on several data, specific figures. In 2015 alone, the number of municipalities with a negative budget balance reached 156 of all 265 municipalities, representing nearly 60%. The total amount of defaults of municipalities on their budget for the last year is 185 million, and only in January this year has increased to 230 million. If we have to sum up the exact figure, the total amount of liabilities plus the guarantees made by municipalities are worth a billion and 900 million, including Sofia Municipality with 570 million, municipality of Varna, municipality of Burgas, municipality of Plovdiv. Colleague Gechev is right that this is some step, completely normal and today our criticisms are made mainly by the texts of the Law. Otherwise, the direction is correct. The one-time measures that have been adopted so far have not helped in any way. For years, however, there has been a problem in the management of public funds throughout the entire government sector. At present, the Bill proposes a separate recovery procedure only for municipalities. We in the People's Union believe that this is not a complex measure and, although it has some effect, perhaps we need a comprehensive revision of the Law. Among other things, we cannot miss the fact that what was mentioned by the speakers that really under the Constitution the municipalities are absolutely independent. However, the importers of the Bill have significantly downplayed this fact. If the amendments to the Finances Act pass today, albeit at first reading, and are adopted, the government will be able to choose which deficits to assist and which ones not. The Finance Minister may determine himself whether he will accept a rescue plan if it goes in a negative direction and is not implemented and is entitled to terminate it on his own. The other hypothesis: if the plan is implemented, it will pass on the option to offer the Council of Ministers this interest-free loan, which we are talking about, to be transformed into a subsidy. This once again puts the different municipalities at a disadvantage. And here comes the main question in the Law, which really led us to vote today, abstentioned: what is the mechanism under which the finance minister will be controlled? There is no such text in the Law. Unless you think parliamentary control is a way to control billions of spending. And at the moment, the Ministry of Finance has quite serious powers, and with these texts we will practically expand them. In normal democracies, colleagues, this was also mentioned just a moment ago when a budget was established at the end of the year by parliament, the cabinet only performs it! It's the other way around. I'm quoting art. 130k, with which the Minister of Finance can offer the Council of Ministers in practice to grant the loan in the form of repayment of debts for temporary interest-free loans. Interestingly, however, how a country that has been in a serious budget deficit since the beginning of the crisis has been in a serious budget deficit for six years in a row can afford the luxury of giving interest-free loans. I'll explain it to you right away: Gechev mentioned the state budget. No, funds can only be taken from one place. It's the money for a rainy day or the state reserve. However, I would like to remind you that the state reserve was an important condition from the International Monetary Fund, or rather a recommendation which should have ensured the solvency of the state, payments to the Monetary Fund, internal and external liabilities, and not to be used for such municipalities, which cannot be taken into account as a net positive contributor, which we have here. Yeah, he's right, mate. Every financier knows that liquidity has its price. Therefore, we in the People's Union argue that the measures must be complex from budgeting, examining it, accepting it and its accountability. Another number I will mention to you, which is very important in today's consideration. In total, transfers to municipal budgets are below 10%. In practice, municipalities do not have this control over common costs, as is presented to us in the motives of the Draft Law. An idea of the problems accumulated in the municipalities also gives the proposed changes to the limits for unpaid costs and overdue liabilities that local governments may have at the end of the year. So this is where we're going to increase it to 30 and 50% again. It is true that the Ministry of Finance provided us with data. They did not contain an accurate analysis of which municipalities are currently not included in the old column and why this increase is needed. Another change that is proposed, which is much more fundamental, and here we agree in general that there is an misunderstanding, i.e. an error that was made a long time ago, I think it is a mistake because it is not synchronised with European legislation the limit for a budget deficit of up to 2%. We should go to the 3% limit, and this is proposed, only on the sector of government. Yes, it is indeed good to be synchronized with European legislation, but this year a very serious consolidation step of 1% is set in the draft budget. Last year, twice the size didn't work out. From this point of view, if we are now raising it from 2 to 3%, we are de facto losing this palliative measure, a way to push these costs. You know that in the previous budget, the main problem was the spending part. The rules for temporary deviation from structural deficit restrictions are also allowed to be loosened. A new term is introduced, which may exceed the deficit for the implementation of investment projects with an expected positive effect in the long term. Here again it is not clear whether these are projects related to the European Structural Funds or just some projects. In conclusion, I will say that in the Budget Committee I asked three questions to the Deputy Minister of Finance, which was also not answered. First, what happens in a municipality that has entered three of the six criteria? The Minister of Finance informs the mayor, the mayor, respectively the municipal council, and the municipal council refuses to enter a rescue procedure. There's no such text! You know very well that in many municipalities the political difference between the mayor and the municipal council is there. If we get into a situation like this, if we get into a case like this, we're practically at a dead end. It's practically an underworked text. The second question, also asked by a reformist bloc colleague, was about sanctions. In case of repeated violation, up to 5,000. BGN, can you imagine, we come to an option where we can reconcile a severe punishment for violation of a regulation relating to public funds and we can punish the person or any official with 5 thousand. Lev?! We don't agree here either. It is good that the Ministry of Finance has practically admitted that sanctions are low. The last question I asked, which I ended up with, was when this new Law would come into force. Colleagues, this budget has already been voted on, and if we respect the texts precisely and the analysis is carried out by the end of 31 August, then the minister will have the opportunity to operate with the new texts. In this situation, I'm very interested where will the money be taken to start healing? In addition to using the 2 billion buffer that Mr. Gechev mentioned or touching the fiscal reserve, which is currently at levels below 8 billion. lv. In conclusion, I would say that really the steps are right. We of the People's Union at this stage will not support them at first reading for all these reasons I have listed. If you invite us to the Budget Committee, we will take part in the debates between first and second readings and give our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kovachev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are all aware that it is an extremely important Law concerning billions of Bulgarian citizens. Turn around, if you please, backwards, and see that there is no one from the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria. As I once used this expression: At least the cleaning lady from the Ministry of Finance to respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria! [[Laughter, excitement.]] I propose that we put an end to this debate, and until the Minister of Finance gets here, let's not continue. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u37	Mr. Gechev, I can only invite the Minister of Finance or a representative of the Ministry, but an end to the debates cannot be done according to the Rules. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Did Mr. Jablyanov or Mr. Genov sign up next?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u38	Vote, vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u39	There can be no vote to end the debate at first reading. Who will take the attitude Mr. Zablyanov or Mr. Genov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Again on Friday before noon, in the chamber room left here, we are looking at a Law, as the colleague said, concerning extremely important moments in the development of Bulgarian municipalities. We're talking about the municipalities here. Where are the agencies, where are the ministries?! Through this Law we are trying to put a straitjacket on the municipalities. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Yes, yes, but it creates sufficient prerequisites to divide them back into ours and yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u41	That's what you were doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u42	Well, we don't know if we did. Colleague, we had an official 500 million-dollar program. lv. [[Loud noise and shouting!]] If there's anything you want to say to me, you're welcome to the stands. Mr. Chairman, would you like to put in order?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u43	Quiet, please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u44	For your information, let me tell you that 150 million were spent last financial year. lv. under the table. I repeat: 150 million! No rules, no regulations, with a decision of the Council of Ministers, in beauty, in nepotism. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Shall I go on? No, I'll stop. Colleagues, there is no analysis of the state of the Bulgarian municipalities. Mr. Chairman, I'll also ask for an extension of time. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u45	I'm gonna extend the time, even though the regulars haven't run out yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u46	I'll notify you in advance. What do we do with municipalities? See: 170 municipalities of 265 are absolutely dependent on the central budget. I would like to remind you of a huge desire of your prime minister years ago when he wanted the personal income tax to be transferred directly to the budgets of the municipalities. Yeah, but when we're prime minister, it's no use to us! When we're mayors, it's good for us. But you forgot that the administrative reform is absolutely asleep in terms of decentralisation of finance, that municipalities have an outdated system of local taxes, which is based solely on property, and that's where the revenues are. This is not in any European country, fellow Members, that the Minister of Finance has huge rights, as I said just now, to distribute as he wishes. We will definitely not support this Law, and between first and second readings we will make reasonable proposals for the Bulgarian municipalities in order to be able, as legislative as possible, not to put them in this relation to the central government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov, did you request a statement? [[Noise and lines.]] Next up is Mr. Bayraktarov. He's ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, when dealing with a really important and serious bill, I think emotions are harmful for several reasons. Firstly, we need to give a clear understanding of the fact that colleagues here are trying to divide the municipalities into ours and yours, but it does not in any way help those living in these municipalities. You're right in the same.. that of 265 municipalities 170 are in a miserable state. You are also right in that more than 15 years in municipalities has been working without a clear, precise and pragmatic philosophy on the revenue side of local budgets. Unfortunately, there wasn't one. It still doesn't exist today, and this clear philosophy of municipal revenue, first of all. It is also clear that, in fact, in most of the municipalities, there is no one to import revenue for the simple reason that they were depopulated. However, there is no one to say this and no one to say it. It is also clear the third thing that we made a proposal a few months ago precisely in this direction, for a change of the Law on Regional Development of Bulgaria and there had to be planned development, in the first place, of the municipalities in Northwestern Bulgaria, the municipalities in the shelf of the Rhodopes, because it is clear that the vast majority of these municipalities are destitute! However, I do not hear from the reasonable statements of my fellow Members what they actually offer! To continue to bankrupt municipalities because it is clear that most of them are practically in technical bankruptcy. For example, the municipality of Velingrad is technically bankrupt. I said that over five years ago! The municipality of Velingrad was ruled, unfortunately, by a friend of mine, with whom we grew up from children, but the management footage of... will not tell which party. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] BSP! BSP's lead shot! My friend and personal friend of your leader! Which does not mean, however, that I approve of his policy of bringing the municipality to bankruptcy, and now people are wondering how to make ends meet, wondering how to stabilize the hospital, wondering how to stabilize the finances, because they have to pay 3 million! Now tell me, where would that $3 million come from, if not from the state?! Only here the pragmatic reading is different. First of all, we're gonna work in a piece. Don't worry, you know, colleagues, that in the budget, some 2 billion stand as unidentified. So I agree with you here.. it may be that on the eve of the presidential campaign these 2 billion can flow to certain municipalities, which, unfortunately, is the bad practice in Bulgaria. We have no way of regulating it, and you know that. More importantly, we will finally set foot on a pragmatic basis, we will bind several laws on clear regulation and financing of municipalities in poor financial condition or we will continue to spend money per piece! I agree here with Mr. Gechev that he cannot concentrate such enormous power in a minister, regardless of who he is. This is unacceptable because a minister cannot allocate, at his discretion, by unexplained criteria, billions of public resources. That's why I agree, it's unacceptable. But I say again, we need to concentrate between first and second readings, because this bill is necessary, there is nothing to be fooled by how to make it as well working as possible! That's what's important. It comes with proposals between first and second readings and pragmatic talks between political forces. I repeat, people live in these municipalities and they do not care which party belongs to, but they care about the lives of their children and grandchildren being better here we have our political responsibility. That's the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. The next statement is Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am really amazed today when discussing this important Bill there is not one representative of the Ministry of Finance to give here clear answers to the questions that are being asked. The other day we had the opportunity to hear from Deputy Minister of Finance Ananiev in the Commission, but also there the answers were extremely evasive. Make it clear that with this bill we are currently breaking art. 17 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and extremely drastic Constitution. We are entering some waters that violate the principle of decentralisation of municipalities. The basic principles laid down for the self-government of the Bulgarian municipalities are going to hell with this bill. Make a retrospect of how the debts of the municipalities have accumulated are not from yesterday, they are not from today, but from more than 20 years. Their main character is local, and it is to fund activities that are state delegated. Municipalities do not have the capacity to cover all activities delegated by the State and therefore they use their local revenues to supplement them. However, with this Bill, we do not solve the problem of how to finally finish this thing that causes municipalities to enter into obligations. The negotiating colleagues have quite objectively and quite rightly made their assumptions that the allocation of these funds will be made on an extremely subjective basis. What is the guarantee that the municipality of Hicks will be given just as much money as it is needed, unlike the municipality of Igrek, which will be given more money than it needs, and at the discretion of the Minister indeed. Another reason for the accumulation of the duties of the municipalities are also the European programmes, because municipalities are difficult to raise funds to finance these programmes. It is also difficult to raise funds for the adjustments imposed on them under the relevant operational programmes. Accordingly, we need to look at the legislation that is far from this Bill, which is not to deal with it. Moreover, these 2 billion, which have already been mentioned here several times and sitting in the state budget, are already being spent. We have tried to ask the Prime Minister for an answer on what principle this money is being spent and on what grounds, because they are being spent by a decision of the Council of Ministers, but, unfortunately, the management of the National Assembly refused to ask this question to the Prime Minister. Who else will answer that question? Who's running the government? And now we want to solve the problem at once and legitimize this uncontrolled spending of the funds without making it clear in any way to the taxpayer why and how this money goes to a certain municipality. It is true that municipalities need funds to cover their responsibilities, which have been accumulated over the years, but this is not the way. Think about it, we need to review a number of other bills, the very way of structuring the state budget, raising state support funds for state delegated activities! Not many of you here have been in the local government and know what I'm talking about right now. This thing that is being proposed is an absolute violation of a bunch of other laws and, above all, the Constitution. Colleagues, I suggest you really reconsider this thing that you are being proposed to vote on today. Once again, I ask that a representative of the Ministry of Finance appear here to answer these questions and that the bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u51	We've already invited them, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other MPs for speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For me, the bill that we are currently looking at is very important, but tabled a little late, because all that is envisaged in it as financial discipline in terms of municipalities would not allow 65% of Bulgarian municipalities to be in this state now. However, the reason they are in this state is not only the delay in this Law, which sets out more requirements for the management of municipalities in terms of financial discipline, but also the weakness of our municipalities. Bulgaria has 265 municipalities, many of them with several settlements and several thousand people. They don't have enough revenue, but they do have the cost of supporting the administration. I always thought that the good distribution of local government should return to that period when we had surroundings and they were about 130. There is no way for a municipality with several thousand people missing revenue to implement projects under the Rural Development Programme or other programmes for five-six and more million. Yes, the minister of finance, who is the most important minister in every government, gets powers, but I can't imagine any minister of finance allowing the bankruptcy of a municipality. I would like to tell the honourable audience that the Currency Board, which is located in Bulgaria, was drilled through the budgets of the municipalities in Argentina. We shouldn't let that happen. In this sense, I see the vision of this Law on the one hand, the recovery of municipalities that are in severe financial condition and the non-excession of the municipalities in the future. We of the Reformation bloc will support the bill in the first vote. I call on all Members who have reasonable proposals to make them between first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mrs. Yankova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In principle, such initiatives by the Council of Ministers to increase the financial stability of municipalities related to public finances deserve to be debated in the Assembly. Maybe not so hot and emotional, and not so hot and above, because in the end it's about a huge public resource. In the reference that the Ministry of Finance provided to the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, we see that this is over a billion and a half.... about a billion and two hundred for the long-term debts of municipalities, interest-free loans, defaults, and if we add financial corrections here... they are not in the reference, which are placed only on municipalities, perhaps we will go to a billion and a half. Maybe this bill will put out a temporary fire, but it won't solve anything, colleagues. Why? I'll share my considerations. Perhaps since the end of 2009, after the big financial crisis, with the same funding model, which is 25 years for municipalities, each Ministry of Finance has rewritten the same framework and gives it to vote with tiny exceptions, in sympathy, plus-minus some money according to the mayor's political decoration. But we do not rule on the fact that a large group of municipalities are in real, and continue to be after this amendment, in structural deficit. In other words, we have public services that must guarantee under the Law the municipalities, but we do not have local revenues that the municipalities can pay off. This is done with loans or with decapitalisation of municipalities. In this period, colleagues, 25 years had it.. sales, privatization, municipalities remained decapitalized. In parallel, both the economic and financial crisis and the economic environment, and the lack of a market, the ownership of municipalities cannot be revived so that it can give revenue. A big group of us come from the local authorities. We know that there are, yes, there are also bad management decisions, but it is not the main problem to come these bad decisions to a billion and a half in the public sector by municipalities, not as an obligation, but as money due. Along with that, I think the Association of Municipalities, and we all know we have several major centers that need to be modernised. These are the big cities. There is a need for more and more resources to become more modern. Colleague Bajraktarov is right, we have centers, small areas that need to guarantee public services under the Constitution, but there is little money left for the people from the local taxes, above all tax buildings from the houses, 10 20 BGN. tax, garbage tax and road tax. When they get together, I'm a witness, and you know, there are small municipalities that have revenues of 200.300,000. When there is a school, when there are social services and when, say, we supported a Law on Disasters and Accidents yesterday, we additionally put municipalities to buy and spend that money, well, the structural deficit continues to weigh. That is why our group says yes, the municipalities must be supported, the finances must look at and make a reading on the formation of public finances in the municipalities. But I want to tell you that with this Law we will not cure and we will do nothing good. Where it can work, we can only have better financial discipline, but we will be left with the problems that we have an outdated environment that is linked to local taxes and fees. We're not helping her, we're delaying the law, we're delaying regulation in terms of garbage tax. We have a lack of alternative sources for municipalities and centralisation leads these sources increasingly to the government as revenue sources You all know, take 20 years back and you'll see that the Ministry of Finance officials are copying them the same way. The big question is: the first planning period in which we all learned as power to spend European money, the great load went to municipalities. Maybe there are over 200 million financial corrections. Yes, the environment is disciplined, but not always with fair correction. Because you can't go to a million-dollar project and say, "The correction is going to be 250,000." lv. And the taxpayers have to pay for it. Let the environment be disciplined by 2 percent! Let us show to Europe that we are self - control! These are things that so far have been unacceptable. If you see 2014 "2015" A large percentage of financial corrections, for which we still do not have an answer. I want to share the environment in which municipalities work is complicated. It can be determined that it is also the result of financial mismanagement of municipalities, but it is also the result of economic and financial development and movement of people in the country itself and the desire to modernise the state and set up its watch for working with European funds. Therefore, honourable Members, we will abstain and we will not support this Bill for the following reason [[Reply.]] A little medicine that... Colleague, it's nice to manage public finances and thoroughly analyze them, talk to the colleague from Gabrovo, she'll explain it to you. But the issue is that we, as Parliament, in preparing the budget for next year, need to see in a different way the public finances related to the Bulgarian municipalities, how they relate to the state budget as a whole. That's what I wanted to share, because the other is a light hurrah, we support something very good, we'll catch one, and the other is bad. The problems are in all the municipalities. The problems are in the public finances of all municipalities and this issue must be solved by us as the regulation of responsible national representation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will abstain and we will oppose.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. Debates on the bill are closed. Honourable Members, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 602-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2016. They voted 132 MPs: for 101, against 23, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we have run out of bills under our weekly programme. Parliamentary control next. Holiday till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u56	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 1 March to 10 March 2016 A question came in from: - National Representative Vili Lilkov to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, concerning the inaction of the Ministry of Health to solve the problem of property owners in the area of the Medical University Sofia. A reply should be made in writing by 17 March 2016; - National Representative Iskren Veselinov to Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, regarding the difference in the infrastructure development of the regions. The reply should be made in plenary on 18 March 2016; - National Representative Teodora Georgieva to Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, on an information system serving accommodation in student dorms. A reply should be made in writing by 23 March 2016; - National Representative Teodora Georgieva of Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, on an information system serving accommodation in student dorms. A reply should be made in writing by 23 March 2016; - National Representative Velizar Enchev to Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, concerning the personnel and anti-corruption policy in the Ministry of Interior. The reply should be made in plenary on 18 March 2016. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Zhelev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on six questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dimitar Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Mariana Todorova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a request from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a request from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Georgiev Kanev. Colleagues, received a letter from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Yavor Haytov to postpone the question they have asked Boyko Borisov First, he will answer a question from the MP Mihail Mikov regarding the conduct of worship activities in the Temple of St. George in Edirne by priests of the Ecumenical Patriarch. Mr. Mikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I've been waiting for you since the beginning of the year. We visited Adrianople on the occasion of the offering of flowers on the monument of Antim I in the yard of the Bulgarian church. During the visit, I and the other Bulgarian citizens of the Thracian companies, from various patriotic organizations from South, from Northern Bulgaria found out with great concern that the famous Bartholomew I, who was awarded in Bulgaria, in whose diocese these churches are located, restricted the service in Bulgarian and the Bulgarians in Adrianople do not wish to attend church service in Greek. As far as the question of religion is in foreign affairs, I took the liberty of asking you this question: how will the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry provide the Bulgarians living in Edirne church service in Bulgarian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Minister Mitov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, the issue concerns the relations between the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Ecumenical Patriarchate. According to the Constitution, religious institutions are separated from the state. To a greater extent competent information and opinion would give the Holy Synod to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the Directorate of Faith to the Council of Ministers. However, the additional verification carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed the existing information that the worship in Bulgarian language in the churches of St. George and St. George. St. Konstantin and Elena. In Adrianople, it is not forbidden or restricted. According to priest Aleksandar Chakar, such claims are spread by individual citizens, possibly deluded, Mr. Mikov. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs through its general consulates is in daily communication with all representatives of the Bulgarian community in Istanbul and Edirne. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u60	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Mikov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this is a reassuring message and I hope that it will be heard by Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian priests in Adrianople. I believe that you through the consular services will continue to monitor this issue and this information so that Bulgarian citizens in Adrianople can be provided church service in Bulgarian because we know the positions of the awarded Bartholomew. We know how he wants the ministry to be served in Greek. This work is unacceptable, and apart from you and us and the patriotic organizations and the Thracian companies will continue to monitor this issue. As for the Holy Synod, it still does not extend to him parliamentary control and, thank God. That's why I asked you the question. Do not transfer to the Holy Synod responsibilities that are within the Foreign Ministry, for it is also responsible for religious faiths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Minister Mitov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, I'm not transferring any responsibility to anyone. I made it clear that there is a constitutional division between state and religion. What I have told you is that you can get more detailed information not within the framework of the parliamentary control of the Holy Synod, but also from the Department of Religions. I will make the clarification once again: yes, we continue to monitor through our Consulate General in Adrianople the development of the situation, but, as I have already said, the service in Bulgarian is not prohibited or restricted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u64	Thank you for your answer. The next question to Minister Mitov is from the MP Rumen Yonchev. Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have bothered to check when I actually asked this question. It is from 8 December 2015 and the answer is developed almost at the speed of humanitarian aid to Ukraine. So you will allow me to slightly update the content of the issue in view of the situation to date. As is known, at the beginning of last year the Bulgarian state took the initiative to provide humanitarian assistance for the crisis in Ukraine, and in the focus of this assistance our compatriots there should be the Bulgarian community in the areas where it lives. Subsequently, it turned out that there were a lot of legal gaps, so it was quite difficult to buy and deliver the aid within the specified deadlines and in the places where it was needed. After all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has undertaken to give out vouchers through the Ukrainian Red Cross instead of humanitarian aid or the purchase of goods to be delivered in these areas, such as the sum of 100 thousand. EUR was translated into the Ukrainian Red Cross and it is thus considered that the issue has been resolved. But to date, what I would like to understand as MPs is: in what way does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs control the spending of this amount, which was not actually given to the Ukrainian State, but actually passes through the Ukrainian Red Cross? Are there vouchers issued, how are they distributed? Who are their recipients? Is there any view of whether our community in Ukraine has received any effect from this aid and to what extent they are users of the aid, or whether it has sunk into the great hole of the crisis in Ukraine and in the huge needs of assistance that exist there? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last but not least, of course, and is there abuse of these funds, to what extent have they gone according to purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yonchev, I will not dwell on the situation in Ukraine, nor on the way in which the assistance itself has developed. It was precisely because of legal irregularities and omissions in legislation that we had to take serious equilibristikas in order to still get this help that was voted on to the Ukrainian Red Cross and from there to the needy. We have studied the experience within the European Union and specifically the system of cash payments, which is recommended by the European Commission, by the Directorate-General for Humanitarian Aid and Citizen Protection. In accordance with its humanitarian plan for Ukraine, this system is implemented by the Ukrainian Red Cross (Ukrainian Red Cross) an authoritative humanitarian aid partner with which a number of EU members work in providing humanitarian aid to Ukraine. It was also crucial that during the consultations with the leadership of the Ukrainian Red Cross an agreement was reached to sign an agreement according to which some of the food vouchers should be distributed to the needy population of Odessa region, where the majority of the Bulgarian community in Ukraine is located, while respecting the principles of impartiality and neutrality, which are fundamental in the activities of humanitarian organizations. The signed Agreement on 21 October 2015 with the Ukrainian Red Cross establishes guarantees precisely for reaching some of the aid to the Bulgarian community by introducing terms and conditions for the implementation of effective monitoring by the Bulgarian side. The subject matter of the Agreement provides that food vouchers are to be distributed among the poor layers of the Odessa region population and among internally displaced persons in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk controlled by the Ukrainian Government. In accordance with art. 4 of the Agreement The Ukrainian Red Cross shall not spend the grant on any other than the distribution of vouchers and shall have the obligation to provide a final report and a financial statement on the expenditure incurred. According to art. 4 t. 1 The Ukrainian Red Cross should ensure the participation of Mr. Anton Kisse in the procedure for the distribution of vouchers. In accordance with art. 11 countries should broadcast coordinators for the implementation of the Agreement and the functions of coordinator from the Bulgarian side are performed by a representative of our embassy in Kiev and by Mr. Kisse. In addition, the Bulgarian side has handed the Ukrainian Red Cross an official Certificate of Donation, which explicitly states that the donated funds should be spent under the signed Agreement. Based on the regular information from our Embassy in Kiev on the actions taken to implement the Agreement, we believe that the arrangements have been properly implemented by the Ukrainian Red Cross and to date the delivery of the humanitarian aid provided by Bulgaria has been completed. All national procedures have been implemented and the Ukrainian Government has agreed to receive the assistance by adopting an Act of Recognition by the Humanitarian Commission at the Ministry of Social Policy. The Ukrainian Red Cross has officially informed the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria of the donation and the amount of the converted amount into Ukrainian bracelets. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I have here and a lot of data, if you want, I will provide them to you or I will read them later in the reply, but it can be concluded from the information received that the coordinators for the implementation of the Agreement by the Bulgarian side have participated effectively and their opinions have been taken into account in the appropriate use of humanitarian aid. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u68	Time for an answer is up. Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the chosen approach would be appropriate if we were to provide aid in the volumes given by the European countries or the United States - millions and tens of millions that could be seen in a similar approach. When we give 100,000. EUR, the vouchers in the huge amount, in the huge volumes of humanitarian aid that Ukraine consumes, can hardly be noticed and can be accounted for in this way. First of all, it seems to me that the chosen approach is not the most appropriate one. I also understand the legal limitations that exist. We expected from you a proposal to amend and supplement the legislation that will enable the Bulgarian state and the next humanitarian crisis to act quickly, effectively, so that with little means we can achieve significant or noticeable effect in such cases. Such changes do not yet know to have been tabled, so this remains your task. As for the effect, you said to a large extent what should happen. I would ask you to provide me with information about what happened to our embassy in Kiev, but the feedback from our community in Ukraine is that the effect did not really work. Very few are those who have managed to get this help or experience the effect of it. Once again, I will conclude with the fact that I think that you must, in an urgent order, draw up legislation that will enable the state, in the event of such a next crisis, to be much more explicit, much faster, to act on the ground and to measure the effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Mr. Minister, you've already made a request that you will use the right to the backrest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yonchev, yes, such proposals for amendments to the legislation will be proposed and tabled. You shouldn't doubt that, because indeed, when we have a next such case, God forbid, we must take action, we must have the opportunity to act quickly, effectively and without hesitation. The chosen approach, fortunately or unfortunately, is the only one possible. That was the only possible approach in the case. As for who received what, I will provide you with information. I will just tell you the following that food products are delivered in the Odessa region in five regions of Tarutino, Bolgrad, Izmael, Sarata and Tatarbunar. These are locations compactly populated with representatives of the Bulgarian community. The lists of needy families in Odessa region are drawn up with the assistance of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine and the vouchers for the district were provided to the President of the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine Mr. Anton Kisse. In order to provide logistical assistance and to save transport costs to the recipients of humanitarian aid in the area, most of them live in remote and difficult areas, following arrangements between Mr. Kisse and the coordinator of the Ukrainian Red Cross for the Odessa area, vouchers have been exchanged against foodstuffs and prepared food packages. For this purpose the vouchers of the Ukrainian Red Cross for the Odessa region were handed over to the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine with a protocol. The delivery of products to the needy was agreed between the Red Cross of Odessa and the Association of Bulgarians in Ukraine. It included representatives of the social services of the regional administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear MPs, a question is followed by the MP Georgi Kuchukov. I don't see him in the gym. [[Heckling]] He's gone. They're giving me a sign. We move on to the next question to Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Mitov. This is a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev, and also a question from the National Representative Prof. Velizar Enchev. Stanilov, who are united due to similarity of the topic and will receive a common answer. We are moving on to the development of the matter by Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I merely specify that my question is asked on 28 December 2015. This clarification is extremely important and talks about how the management of the National Assembly works, but since it is not an exception to the rule, we must already accept it as normal, as in the Bulgarian Parliament, the insane think of it as normal. My question, Minister, is this. The Turkish Ambassador to Bulgaria, Mr. Gokce, as well as the general consuls of the Republic of Turkey in Burgas and in Plovdiv, have broken the rules for diplomatic activity in the period 23-27 December last year. In violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations since 1961, ratified by the Bulgarian side in 1967, prohibiting the intervention of diplomatic representatives in the home affairs of the host country, Ambassador Gokce called in his residence a meeting of the regional leaders of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, suggesting certain behaviour before the extraordinary meeting of the party. At the same time, the two consul generals in Burgas and Plovdiv performed a similar campaign among members of the DPS, which is a violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations since 1963, ratified by Bulgaria six years later. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 of the Convention, Minister, states that the Host Party has the right at any time to declare a persona non grata consular officer who violated the Vienna Convention and the Sending State must call it off. Mr. Minister, because there have been public actions by a foreign ambassador and two consul generals, with which the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations has been demonstrably violated, my question to you is: why have you not applied the penal clauses in both conventions, since this requires it both international law and our damaged national dignity? Since you have already applied it, although in a very soft form to one of the general consuls, I am extending my question: why not apply it to the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Bulgaria Mr. Suleiman Gökce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Professor Stanilov, please come in and ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, my question is asked on January 11, 2016, which means today is exactly two months. In the exceptional dynamics of the foreign diplomatic relations of Bulgaria and in the continuous dynamics of the foreign policy and geopolitical environment, the delay in answering such questions discourages them and makes senseless parliamentary control. This may be convenient for the government, but within the meaning of parliamentary control, which is one of the most important functions of the National Assembly, it is pointless to ask these questions. However, I will read the whole question, although part of it has disappeared. In recent weeks, a wave of indignation has risen in the Bulgarian society over the harsh intervention of several Turkish diplomats led by the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in the domestic politics of the country. It is absolutely unacceptable for foreign diplomats to put pressure on Bulgarian MPs and to require certain political behaviour from them. At the moment, when I asked the question, media and journalists related to the Turkish Embassy are trying to confuse the Bulgarian society with the thesis that meetings, phone calls and pressure from Turkish diplomats were not proven. This is a clear attempt to divert attention from the problem because the behaviour of Turkish diplomats this time was not backstage, but publicly. On 26 December 2015 at the commemorative rally in the village of Mogilyane, Ambassador Sulejman Gökce and Turkish consuls in Plovdiv and Burgas demonstrated with their presence before the Bulgarian voters support for some political MPs and disapproval for others. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to implement the already mentioned article. 9 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which requires in such cases the ambassador to Sofia and the consuls in Plovdiv and Burgas to be declared persona non grata? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u76	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, please come in for a general answer to the two questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Nenchev! Dear Mr. Stanilov, I would like to inform you of the following. Firstly, the declaration of collaborators of diplomatic representation and of consular officials as persona non grata is an opportunity provided for in both the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey is also in force with the 1970 Consular Convention, which also provides for similar opportunities with regard to consular officials and collaborators. At the same time, I should draw attention to the fact that the declaration of persona non grata does not constitute a penalty clause which must be automatically applied in breach of specific obligations under the abovementioned conventions. In this sense, a similar step by the Republic of Bulgaria should be assessed in the context and of the possibility of taking other effective measures to resolve the case, as well as after careful analysis of the possible consequences for bilateral relations with the Republic of Turkey. These relationships have a long history and have gone through different stages. Regardless of all the coups, however, our peoples have been neighbors for centuries and understand well how great the importance of good neighbourhood is to allow their deterioration because of certain actions of specific employees, regardless of their rank. Our relations with the Republic of Turkey have a strong and stable basis, and in our bilateral relations we have a series of priorities that we need to implement jointly. The first is: clear control of our southeastern border to prevent the influx of refugees. We have many joint economic, commercial, infrastructure, energy and transport projects. We also have a number of unresolved issues in bilateral relations dating back to many years, for which we have created a special Mixed Commission. We expect an invitation from the Turkish side to hold its next meeting, which should take place in Ankara. I could not hide, of course, that bilateral relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, as well as our national dignity, were somewhat damaged by the events of the Christmas days, listed in your letters and question. I want to assure you that the Bulgarian side in the face of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already taken measures and has done everything possible to prevent the expansion of conflicts, for which we have made every possible diplomatic effort. Another point is that not everything we have done can be made public, especially because of the specific tools that diplomacy sometimes has to use. Mr. Enchev, you understand that very well. I would therefore like to draw attention to those who advise us to take more extreme action that matters should be dealt with in greater depth and in a further perspective. In these, I would say turbulence times, we need both expertise and wisdom and patience to prevent irreparable mistakes. At the same time, I stress that my understanding of professional diplomatic behaviour does not include the actions of a Head of Mission, which, regardless of the clear norms of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, demonstrates behaviour that public opinion also sees as interference with our country's internal affairs. I inform you that I have urged the appropriate way to do what is necessary in order to overcome this perception, which the public opinion in Bulgaria has built up, probably not without reason, from the situation created. In conclusion, I confirm that attempts to intervene in Bulgaria's internal affairs by foreign diplomats accredited in Bulgaria, regardless of which country they represent, will not be left without the corresponding consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Minister, in part, as strange as that sounds, I am pleased with your answer. I will try to decipher it for colleagues in parliament and for the Bulgarian audience. Yes, indeed, you reacted. You have responded successfully by forcing the general consuls of the Republic of Turkey in Burgas and in Plovdiv to leave in a very elegant way, for which, of course, I congratulate you. However, at the same time, I think that your response feels something that makes me think that we - the Republic of Bulgaria - are as if we had Eastern Rumelia status in relation to the Republic of Turkey, as a really independent state, which should be the Republic of Bulgaria - a member of the European Union, should express to a much stronger extent its national dignity, when a foreign ambassador allowed himself to officially, and as you said in public, and Mr. Stanilov said, to intervene in the internal affairs of a country, in this neighbouring country. Can you imagine, Mr. Minister, the Bulgarian Ambassador to Ankara, Ms. Nadezhda Mihaylova, convincing the Bulgarian expatriates in Bursa, Izmir, to Istanbul which political power to vote in the parliamentary elections in Bulgaria and if they do not agree with this position, she will threaten them and make the relevant ultimatums? Of course, if that happens, Mrs. Mihailova will be recalled without any hesitation in 24 hours. In this sense, I think that our reaction to the Turkish ambassador should be clear and unambiguous. And since you really don't want to use the toolbox, I kind of understand your recall, I'll give you a piece of advice. I propose to lower the level of contacts of the Turkish Ambassador to Bulgaria with the Bulgarian official state institutions, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and to lower the level of contacts will force the Turkish Ambassador to Bulgaria, force the Turkish Foreign Ministry and President Erdogan to withdraw it from Bulgaria. I see no other option, as the stay of Ambassador Gokce on the position of Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey to Bulgaria is a humiliation for our national dignity. So I will congratulate your efforts in this direction, I repeat, for lowering the level of contacts of official state-owned Bulgarian institutions with Mr. Gokce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u80	Thank you. Opportunity to develop his question in the line. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u81	I partly agree with what my colleague Velizar Enchev said in his line. Dear Minister, I will say a few fairy tales in general about Bulgarian politics and then about the Bulgarian policy of the current government. Bulgarian politics for 25 years now really adheres to a principle of the goddamn Bulgarian conformism, which, because of the formula of good neighbourly relations, that we have lived, lived and will always live next door to Turkey, is brought up as an argument to keep quiet on very important issues when defending the Bulgarian national interests. Mr. Minister, there is such a proverb: the bowed head sword does not cut it, but sometimes the sword cuts off the first bowed head and then the straight head. Indeed, Bulgarian diplomacy in democratic times, taking into account the geopolitical situation of Bulgaria and its severe internal and external situation, makes concessions that are unbearable. It is true, as you say, you need to look at things in greater depth. But if we look at them in greater depth, Minister, in the famous strategic depth of the Prime Minister of Turkey from 50th to 57th page, it is said exactly what should happen to Bulgaria, and it is not pink at all. And even there is a phrase that says that under certain circumstances, under firm neighbouring policy, Turkey must use the Cyprus model. We know what the Cyprus model is. There is a direct threat to Bulgaria. I can't understand and I can never understand how we can, based on our desire to have a good neighbourly relationship, back off like this? The Turkish side is constantly talking about friendship and good neighbourly relations, see what Davutoglu and his diplomats write about what they do. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. So publicity must also be given, because Bulgarian society must know whether its government protects the interests of the state and its nation, or retreats in certain positions that are too important!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u82	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Enchev, Mr. Stanilov! Mr. Enchev, thank you for your evaluation. You're a diplomat, you know perfectly well how to translate what I'm saying and what should follow. And you've been articulating it. In addition, I will only say the following. If a country finds and when it finds interference in its internal affairs, it has all the tools to deal with this intervention without having to resort to extreme measures and reduce its relations with a neighbouring country to relations at Chargé et al. You very well articulated part of the toolbox that could be used in this direction. I have left to my Turkish counterpart the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey, whom I deeply respect, to assess whether Ambassador Gokce contributes with his behaviour to the development of our bilateral relations. We have the whole toolbox and when we establish interference in our internal affairs, we can apply it. I said in my reply that diplomacy could not always be as public as we would like it to be. However, such are her instruments. You know it, and you got it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before we proceed with the questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I give the floor for a declaration on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Bulgaria is in a severe demographic crisis today. The government and the majority strongly lead it to a demographic disaster because, excluding the period 2005 - 2009 when the birth rate increased by 15%, and 2014, when there was a slight increase in birth rate by 1000 children compared to 2013, the downward trend is lasting. In recent years Bulgaria has reduced by about 40 thousand people a year, about one city as much as Kyustendil. At this rate Bulgaria is reduced by 110 people per day, by 4.6 people per hour, i.e. within the parliamentary control of about 10 people. If this is not changed, in 2030 the country's population will be 6.5 million people and the proportion of people over 65 years of age compared to the laborable population will grow from 31% today to 40% in 2030 and any contraption to raise retirement age will have no meaning. The assessment of this threat was also made in the debates when a unanimous decision was adopted by the National Assembly, which obliged the government to take short-term and medium-term measures. These days the European Commission report on Bulgaria has also come out, where it is found that Bulgaria has suffered one of the biggest declines of the world's population! From almost 9 million in 1989 to 7.2 million within a generation. A large proportion of 7.2 million work temporarily or permanently abroad. If you check with the Ministry of Education this year that you see how many thousands of children have taken certificates, leave papers to go to study abroad, and whether they will return is a next question. Net birth rate and net migration contribute roughly equally to this. Bulgaria is expected to continue to suffer huge demographic pressures, leading to a population reduction of another 2.5 million by 2080. Report of the European Commission, not of BSP left Bulgaria! Dear MPs, what did Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens receive from the management of Boyko Borisov's second cabinet? During this 2016 budget reduced the benefits of mothers for raising children from one to two years and remained 340 BGN. in case of increased minimum wage. Monthly supplements for children with disabilities were frozen. Target aid to students has been frozen and applies only to first-graders. The monthly supplements for the most numerous families in Bulgaria with two children increased by 2 BGN. monthly. For families with more than three children, and they are becoming less and less in Bulgaria, the additives are reduced. Helping two or more children at the same time froze. Our proposal to introduce family income tax to families with children was not accepted. The proposal for tax relief for families with incomes up to the minimum wage, which are practically unable to raise children with these incomes, is not accepted. Our proposal of BSP left Bulgaria is not accepted to reduce VAT for goods for children. Dear MPs, this tragic picture of a demographic catastrophe that the government is leading the country to today must be changed. It must be changed, first of all, by implementing the National Assembly's decision to propose clear short-term and medium-term measures. Instead, the government was presented to the National Assembly a plan for 2016, where with general talk it is said: delay in negative demographic processes. On the contrary, with the freezing of these social payments that I have listed, the negative demographic processes are speeding up. This year, since the beginning of the year, things have been getting even more disturbing. From the beginning of the year until today around 1500 fewer children were born in Bulgaria compared to last year. Last year, we were able to reach the level of 1945 when men were at war. Dear MPs, BSP left Bulgaria calls for all parliamentary represented forces, calls the government of Boyko Borisov for urgent discussion of the serious problems facing the demographic perspective of Bulgaria. And not only a discussion, because Bulgarian citizens have listened to various discussions, discussions, strategies and other such contraptions, which are on paper, but clear measures, measures to support the Bulgarian family for raising children, all these issues which can be resolved and for which there is money in the state budget. What do the 15 million that last week were denied for increasing the supplements for raising a child? It means that we are already looking at the policy that is leading Bulgaria towards this demographic disaster! I hope that all political forces will be aware of this. During political consultations with the President, he assessed our proposal and confirmed his readiness to convene the Advisory Council on National Security on this particular issue, the demographic disaster. We expect that all parliamentary groups and especially the government of Boyko Borisov will be absolutely committed to the future of the nation, to the future of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the questions to the Minister. On behalf of a group, please come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u87	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues from BSP, even ask an average fan of poppies what is the potency of BSP, and he will tell you that you have proven reproductive problems. When you talk about a demographic crisis, it's best to think about yourself first. You need new and active members, but they only appear when announcing new and productive ideas. You do not need to talk about disharmony and your behavior, which indicates a lack of unity in your collective body. When Bulgaria's demographic problems stand out, then we must say that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u88	Some kind of note to make!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u89	...the elements that are manifesting now have a mandatory sustainability for at least 10 years.... socio-economic problems, lack of trust, lack of perspective and security, sense of meaningless life. It is good to think about the patterns and the way of your management for years that have led to the emptying of content and the futility of the lives of our humanity now, at the moment, here. Only 45% of the first-graders have a mother tongue of Bulgarian, and you have the heavy responsibility for that. Since the beginning of this discussion Bulgaria has decreased by seven people. And these are the requested statistics of the professors and specialists who are working on this topic. Dropping the ceiling of 350 leva. for child care aid is one of the important and important topics that can also lead to the resolution of these problems related to the demographic problem. The continuation of reforms in the social sphere. Started and continued from 2009 and 2013. The ones we stated with the management model of the first cabinet Borisov. The trident model is the one who decides and asks for a change in the way of providing opportunities for families to feel both stable and significant! [[BSP LB.]] Continue deinstitutionalization and development of social services for children with disabilities. For you it is more than normal when the political party GERB rules, to be in heavy opposition models and to show behavior that should be of importance to you. But what I would like to say is that, at this point, the political party GERB continues the reforms it has stated and started in 2009 and 2013. Making individual social assessments of socially weak Bulgarian citizens, searching for opportunities for their social inclusion and employment insurance. It is good to see the operational programs that started with the beginning of cabinet management, because they allow social integration today to be a fact and not just a public appearance as you did. It's good to talk about Roma integration. It's good to talk about the integration of people with disabilities. It is also good to talk about the absorption of the opportunities for solving the reproductive problems of mothers, what is really an unwanted policy and an unwanted topic for you. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] You only talk about her when you're in opposition. When you're in charge, unfortunately, all you do is think about yourself. Maybe it's also good to tell you about helping businesses and employment programs. [[BSP LB line]] Because the sustainable business environment, the sustainable investment environment is the one that also enables social benefits. You go out on the stand and you think you're the start of every reform. But what really starts with you is the decline and devaluation, even the trust. We wish we could work cooperatively together with you. We wish we could find a common language and have common policies. But you are hindering every desire in our country to work together because the only thing you are capable of is on Friday to go out and make a declaration to try to defeat every step that the government makes so that it can succeed and give more security and peace to the people. If you ask them what they need, they will tell you that they need to see a united parliament that works peacefully. And if we ask one of you what you need, it will probably be an answer related to your upcoming congress, where someone will have to value himself in a proper manner in the chair. I would like to tell you that GERB's policies in each of the areas in which it works are deliberate, programmed, sustainable, step by step, with a clear, predictable outcome at the end. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Thank you. I don't need an invitation to your convention. It's being broadcast directly, and laughter is for the whole country. However, what I would like to say to you is that I regret that your party is not strong and is not significant, because only a significant opposition can give a significant government. [[BSP LB.]] Because when we see an impotent party in your face, it creates a problem with us because we are looking for support in other parties. Do you understand? Your bad counterpoint doesn't give birth to anything good. And I advise you, instead of making your Friday declarations the way you're making them now, to make them as project proposals and as opportunities. [[BSP LB lines]] Political party GERB to go in its government firmly and stubbornly as it has done so far. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u91	Can we do this the way we're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u92	Here you go. Of course the tension provokes a note in the manner of conduct. You understand that the declaration procedure requires a little more patience with the speakers. But please, I'll hear you with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I think that when a declaration is made on behalf of a group, substantial problems should be put to society. You've allowed a person here to express himself in terms of sexual dysfunction, reproductive inadequacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u94	You're a public problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u95	Maybe she's somehow subconsciously having these problems, so she shares them here publicly on Freud. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u96	Please, let's not get ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u97	But let's respect parliament. When people come out here, let them come up with arguments. From what Mr. Mikov said, I didn't hear anything that was refuted about the fact that there was a disaster, that Bulgaria disappeared. There were some loose ends. Yes, what we did was give you a hand, but you obviously didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I accept your note and also the call for what the declaration should be on behalf of a parliamentary group. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Professor Stanilov, your next question. You're welcome to set it up with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! This question also has exactly a two-month limitation. On 24 July 2015, you, Mr. Minister, informed the MPs that a major obstacle to the renewal of negotiations on settlement of unresolved issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey was the complicated political situation after the elections in the neighbouring country. I would like to remind you that there is a corresponding decision of the Forty-first National Assembly of 8 April 2011 and it is in connection with the Friendship Treaty signed between Bulgaria and Turkey on 18 October 1925. The so-called "Angora Treaty" and the protocol to it that has no statute of limitations. The decision commissioned the Bulgarian government to speed up its work within the Joint Committee on Unsolved Issues between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey on property and social issues and to determine the current amount of claims of the Bulgarian country. After your appearance in the Bulgarian Parliament in July 2015, the political situation in Turkey has stabilized. New parliamentary elections were held and a stable one-party government was elected. There are no formal obstacles for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria to ask for a new meeting of the Mixed Commission. In December there was even an official visit of the Turkish prime minister to Bulgaria. You have said that the Bulgarian side focuses on maximum use of complex opportunities, especially in the context of our membership in the European Union and on the ongoing talks about the accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu himself said in Sofia that his country's relations with Bulgaria will be one of the most priority and Bulgaria is Turkey's door to the European Union. Once upon a time, many years ago, Mr. Dogan said it was the other way around, but that was just a note. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: why did the Bulgarian side not set a meeting of the Mixed Commission as a condition for the visit of Prime Minister Davutoglu to Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u100	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, holding the meetings of the Joint Committee on Unsolved Issues and the meetings of the Prime Ministers within the High Level Cooperation Council between Bulgaria and Turkey represent permanent issues from the calendar of bilateral Bulgarian-Turkish relations, including for 2016. These meetings of the Mixed Commission and of the Council shall have the character of official visits. The one-day visit of Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu to Sofia on 15 December 2015 was a working visit, outside the calendar of bilateral relations, which is why it cannot be linked to other formats or meetings. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Interior continues the work in the Mixed Commission and the positions correspond to the interests of Bulgaria. We expect from the Turkish side, which is to be hosted, proposed for a date for the next meeting, which we see as an essential part of the preparations for the Second Intergovernmental High Level Cooperation Council between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u103	I have asked such questions several times a term of office to all foreign ministers since 2005. The answers, Minister, are the same. We work, dates, deadlines, joint meetings and so on and so forth. And it doesn't work! So far, there are even no symptoms that there will be any result and that the Turkish side has any desire to solve these issues at all. This question and this problem, Mr. Minister, is related to my question, which you just answered. This is a complex attitude of the government of the Republic of Turkey and of the public attitudes of Turkish society. This is also indicative today of moving neo-Osmanism. The government of the Republic of Turkey must be given a clear sign that the problems with these properties and with the Anex to the Angora Treaty should be priority because they are already covered with mold and mold as time limits. The contract was signed in 1925 and it is clearly written that it has no statute of limitations. So far, there have been no results on this issue. The guilt and responsibility for this is not only the government, but mainly the Foreign Ministry for all the governments of the Republic of Bulgaria. Again, I call on you and the next session I will ask you the same question. And to the next one, the same question while you are in this government. Mr. Minister, this can't go on any longer. You have other tools of pressure. You can use notes, personal conversations between the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. This problem must be solved! The heirs of these Bulgarians are more than a million. There are piles of documents collected in the State Archives. I call on you next time I ask you to report any movement of this matter, not for setting dates, for formalities and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u104	Mr. Minister, would you like to use the right to the backrest? No. We move on to the next question by the MP Dimitar Dubov on clarification of the status of the Turkish diplomat Ugur Emiroglu.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the agreman received Mr. Ugur Emiroglu is an attaché on social and administrative issues at the Consulate General of Turkey in the city of Burgas. From citizens of a number of districts in its consular area from Ruse to Burgas, namely Targovishka, Silistrenska, Shumenska, Burgas and other districts, it is clear that he is doing activities other than that for which he has consent. Before coming to Bulgaria, Mr. Emiroglu worked as the main mufti of the Mufti in Orhanelli in the city of Bursa. The person in question is directly head of the employees and of the mufti who are in state and receive salaries from the Department of Religious Affairs of the Republic of Turkey, the so-called "Dianet." The main thing in it is the imposition of an ideology of Islam, preached in Turkey, the imposition of religious customs and values that are not typical of the Bulgarian Turks, organizes and conducts six-month religious courses directly funded by the Republic of Turkey, and very recently attempted to influence the activists of a party in connection with changes in its leadership. Dear Minister, is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed and personally you that this Turkish diplomat is operating differently from the one for which he is authorised? How long is Mr. Emiroglu's term of office? What measures will the Ministry of Education take towards this and other Turkish diplomats who exceed their aggreman? Mr. Minister, this question in this form was asked on January 16th, two months ago. In this period after January 16th, the Ministry led by you carried out concrete actions in the expulsion of the Turkish diplomat, but this did not change the actuality of the issue of the behaviour and the action of Turkish diplomats and officials of the Turkish Religions Directorate in the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Dubov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dubov, in April 2015, Mr. Ugur Emiroglu was appointed social attaché at the Consulate General of the Republic of Turkey in Burgas. For acts incompatible with the status of diplomatic officer under the Vienna Convention, on 19 February 2016, the latter was declared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria as persona non grata and was asked to leave the country within 72 hours for acts incompatible with its post at the Consulate General. Act of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with reference to art. 23, para. 1 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations with Mr. Ugur Emiroglu is dictated both by the available information about his activities among representatives of one of the religions in Bulgaria and by the broad public attitudes created against interference in our country's internal affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u108	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u109	Dear Minister, I am personally satisfied with the response and the actions of the competent authorities in Bulgaria, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the State Agency of National Security. I hope that this has not affected our good neighbourly relations with Turkey, but is just a signal, a sign to the Turkish diplomats in Bulgaria, that they should comply with the fact that they work in another country and cannot directly interfere with our domestic policy issues, as well as in the faiths in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dubov. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? No. We are continuing with the question by the MP Christian Vigenin on the need to ensure the professional start when appointing heads of diplomatic missions. Mr. Vigenin, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In 2016, the mandates of near or perhaps just over a third of the leaders of Bulgarian diplomatic missions expire. I would remind you that this is because in 2012 the former Minister of GERB Nikolay Mladenov performed a pogrom over Bulgarian diplomacy. A number of Bulgarian ambassadors were recalled for specific reasons, after which mass political appointments were made. In the rule of law established by the current Law on the diplomatic service........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 24, para. 3, the quota of the external to the system or the heads of missions known as political appointments covering both the ambassadors and the heads of general consulates is set at 20%. In this regard, I would like to ask: what is the rate of the political appointments proposed and carried out by your inauguration to the Foreign Minister's office so far? Are the requirements of the Diplomatic Service Act met with regard to the diplomatic missions currently in force? What is the rate of such appointments to date? Given what I started with, do you intend to take advantage of the opportunity to impose a sharp change in the approach this year and to strengthen professional appointments at the expense of the political process to ensure the professional start in the development of the Bulgarian diplomatic service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! My position on the subject is, of course, based on the diplomatic service Act, which has been tested in the good practice of the ministry, an external assignment. You have made the distinction because the figure of the political assignment is not recognized in the legal framework and is consistent with the figure used in our practice - external assignment - that is to say, persons outside the diplomatic service. You've made this distinction, and I'm glad we're working with the same concept apparatus. The diplomatic service law clearly lays down the criteria for the appointment of the heads of overseas representations when they are members of and, exceptionally, outside the diplomatic service. The so-called................................................................................................. At present, 97 heads of overseas representations 23 are not members of the diplomatic service, which means 23.7 per cent. Of these, only 7 have been proposed and appointed during my term as Minister of Foreign Affairs. On the subject of my intention to take advantage of the possibility of strengthening the professional start in the appointment of heads of diplomatic missions in 2016, when the mandate of nearly one third of those appointed expires, I intend, under the Diplomatic Service Act, to do what is necessary to maximise the adjustment of existing disproportion and restriction of external appointments within the framework of its twenty percent. Here, however, I must also make the clarification, and you know it as a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, that the restriction in question, firstly, is difficult to mathematically comply with, and secondly, it has always been exceeded, in different years it has been much higher, but otherwise the aspiration will naturally be to adhere to the limit set by the Law, and, of course, if possible to limit external appointments within the 20% envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your response and the good intentions you have expressed, but I still need to clarify that the reason I asked this question is a very clear trend towards politicising the diplomatic service in your current existence as Minister of Foreign Affairs. You have stated that seven are the proposed appointments at your time, but in practice they exceed the professional ones for the same period. Correct me if I'm wrong. I also believe that the Law should still be respected at any moment in the development of the diplomatic service and not at periods. We are in a certain situation anyway, but we will monitor and count on them to be below 20% within the forthcoming period of new appointments. I also believe that neither the President of the Republic nor the Council of Ministers should adopt decisions to appoint ambassadors outside professional diplomats to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until this quota falls below 20%. Any such decision is in practice a violation of the Law, first by the Council of Ministers, by the President with the issuance of the relevant decrees. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, this is information that is yet to become public, but it is good that the legal requirements that apply to professional diplomats apply to political appointments or to outsiders. However, when I say political persons, we make this distinction in terms of the law, but in practice, if the previous appointments are seen, I have taken out my list, they are practically all political and not just external to the system. We have expectations that not a small part of the currently appointed ambassadors, external to the system, will simply jump from one capital to another [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think it further corrupts, so to speak, the development of the diplomatic service. I believe that Bulgaria needs to create traditions in the diplomatic service, it needs motivation for professional diplomats. This cannot happen when you are constantly looking for external and not always adequate and professional appointments of management positions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The Ambassador's place or place of consul general is not just a reward or a peaceful port for someone, but a position that requires very hard work, on whose assessment depends what happens to the Bulgarian foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, for the coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! The deficits of the diplomatic service are many, inherited and, of course, our desire at the moment is to correct to the maximum extent, reform the administration and the way the diplomatic service operates, so that it is not only professionally prepared, well-functioning, but also modern. That's what it's all about. I'm sure you'll share it. When we talk about external appointments or, as you prefer to call them, political. Each state uses such an instrument. There is nothing abnormal about a government prioritizing its foreign policy intentions, defining even capitals in which it is important to have a certain type of person, with a certain type of attitude, with a certain type of qualities that may be external to the system. You are right that legal requirements must be respected. Sometimes it's hard, you know. Even mathematically, when you start doing calculations, it turns out that in order to get that 20%, you have to divide one person into two or three, which is not going to happen. Therefore, naturally, our ambition will be to make efforts so that we enter within the Law, but at the same time we will not give up the idea of external appointments being in the direction of serving foreign policy-oriented priorities in the direction of certain capitals. It is normal to do it by any government that conducts an active foreign policy and has prioritized its intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was a doppelganger. Next, a question from MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov regarding threats to Bulgaria arising from the new decisions of the European Union on the refugee crisis. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! That question has a monthly statute of limitations. Although he's older than the last two, I'll allow myself to read it the way I've imported it. In recent weeks, the European Commission has been working on a plan to complete the closure of the Greek-Macedonian border for refugees. In Greece, they fall from Turkey, which has not yet taken visible action to reduce the refugee flow. At present, the main route of refugees to the rich countries of Western and Northern Europe is through Greece and Macedonia, which is not a member of the European Union. That is why Greece must act as a border guard along with Macedonia, it must close its border. According to the initial information, the plan should enter into force in March. There are several considerations that should bother us in the realization of this plan: firstly, Athens will use it to trade privileges from Brussels in the payment of its sovereign debt; secondly, the closure of the Greek-Macedonian border will not solve the refugee crisis in Europe; third, there is no recent solution to the conflict in Syria; fourth, Turkey has found a wonderful opportunity for financial blackmail of the European Union by missing the refugee flow that is already going on, so to speak. If the path of refugees through Greece and Macedonia is stopped, they will seek their only remaining alternative, which is through Bulgaria. There are clear signals in this direction. On January 14, 118 refugees were found near the village of Svilengrad in the morning on a small island in the Maritsa River, including 68 children. Migrants posing as Iraqis were taken and abandoned there by Greek sewermen. This is the second case of abandoned Iraqi refugees in this area only for a month after another group of 115 people. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what specific measures will you take to prevent the shift of the refugee flow from Bulgaria from discussing the European decision to close the Greek-Macedonian border? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stanilov! The question, although asked a long time ago, has in no way stopped being up-to-date, and as you know, whenever it is asked, the discourse and the situation will be changed the very next day. Thank you, of course, for the question that has been raised, and I hope that my answer will allow some concerns to be dispelled in society as a result of the not always fair enough information about the management of migration flows in Europe. I would like to point out immediately, as well as the events of recent weeks have made it clear that no proposal for the closure of the border between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Macedonia has been discussed in the European Union authorities. What is likely to have been the cause of your questioning is the similar initiative of the Visegrad countries, as you know, it was not supported by the other Member States of the European Union. It should be taken into account that the authorities of the European Union could not take a decision legally binding on the Republic of Macedonia, which is not a member of the Union, and would impose closure of its border with the Hellenic Republic. The decisions to manage migration flows across this border shall be taken independently by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. At present, some of the Visegrad countries have provided only technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the border authorities of the Republic of Macedonia by seconded police officers from these countries to the border with the Hellenic Republic. I use this case to assure you that Bulgarian diplomacy continues to make consistent efforts to find a solution to the problems of migration pressure simultaneously within the framework of our bilateral cooperation with neighbouring countries and the European Union authorities to develop a common European approach. The efforts of all Member States of the European Union continue, as well as the Frontex Agency to improve security at the Greek-Turkish border and assist Greece. An indicator of the European Union's responsible approach to resolving the problems related to the increased migration pressure was held in Brussels on 7 March this year, a European Union summit on Turkey. It has achieved significant parameters of a potential arrangement, such as for the reception by the Republic of Turkey of migrants entering Greece through its territory, for the introduction by the Republic of Turkey of a stricter visa regime vis-à-vis nationals of certain third countries and others. In parallel with these efforts, we continue to seek to devote more and more attention to removing the root causes of migratory pressure, which, in our opinion, is the way for a lasting solution to the problems associated with it. I'm going to add a few things that need to be heard, too. When we talk about the Bulgarian position, which, of course, is largely in the interests of the Community, of the European Union, is the idea of strict, strict control of the external borders. That is, passage, if allowed, only through the crossing points. Border control will restore security within the European Union, respond to the concerns of European citizens, and will already create another environment for controlling migration pressure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since time is up, I'll be able to continue a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You can continue in the back. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u123	Dear Minister, as you know, our political power has a political platform on the issue of migration flow. We believe that we should have a stronger attitude towards stopping this migration stream. It cannot be fully consistent with European policies for the simple reason that Bulgaria is in a completely different position from that of Central European countries. Once they have huge opportunities to deal with this stream, they have the financial power, they have the social opportunities to do so and, of course, they have the wrong policy that we will never agree that Europe must constantly fill itself with refugees in order to satisfy the need for European labour economies. This is a huge mistake, this is the new great migration of nations, which once destroyed the Roman Empire. There are five points that I will not list because there is no time in which there is a complete match between the situations in the Roman Empire and in the current European Union. That is why I asked you this question, in a sense it has a provocative nature as well.......................that the Bulgarian government is more determined on the migration flow than our so-called partners.... the major European countries of Central Europe. As you can see, Eastern European countries also hold one pό another tone. I hope that Bulgaria will join this and will not play, as they say, according to the so-called, important and strong European partners, because we are far more vulnerable than they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u124	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, Bulgaria has a strong enough position on how migration flows should be controlled and what should be done. Bulgaria proves it on a daily basis, guarding the external border of the European Union in this case the border with the Republic of Turkey. No one can deny that Bulgaria is doing well in this case. These government efforts have been evaluated everywhere and without any hesitation. You know that we also held a meeting of the operational working group dealing with a risk assessment. In the event that migration flows may be redirected, we are already ready to react. You know, a few days ago, even a drill was conducted. We should thank the Bulgarian Parliament for agreeing to change the legislation so that the army can participate in the efforts to guard the Bulgarian borders. You know that in this case we are prepared and we are aware of what needs to be done, on top of that we have arrangements with our neighbours for an early warning if possible migration flows go towards the Bulgarian borders. We don't have that kind of data right now, but we've taken precautions and we're prepared. It is also important to emphasise that, in addition to our insistence on strict and very strict control of the external borders of the European Union, we insist on the readmission policy, on returning to countries of origin of persons entering the European Union and who do not need international protection, to become a European policy, because it is currently the responsibility of the Member States, it is the responsibility of the Member States. Some of them may use their diplomatic power to persuade third countries to take back their citizens, but smaller countries cannot do so strongly enough in a bilateral plan. That is why European diplomacy must be involved in this case, and I think we are doing well in this direction too. Potential arrangements that can be reached with the Republic of Turkey contain important elements. We will particularly insist on two of them: firstly, to make a commitment by the Republic of Turkey not to allow the closure of the Aegean route or the current Balkan migration route to open a new and land borders between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Turkey and the Black Sea to be explicitly recorded as the focus of this type of attention. Secondly, the readmission agreement to be implemented by the Republic of Turkey as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin on the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding development aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, significant efforts were made between 2013 and 2014 for better structuring and strengthening the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to effectively use the so-called development aid. Important programmes and documents were drawn up and adopted, as well as strategic cooperation programmes with Georgia, Moldova and the Republic of Macedonia. In 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was significantly facilitated, with the development aid fund being transferred from the central budget to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was one of the real obstacles to more efficient work on this instrument. As far as development aid policy is among the main aspects of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' activities, I would like to ask you: First, what are the strategic objectives which the Bulgarian government is setting in the realization of the country's policy in the field of development aid? Secondly, what are the main projects implemented in 2015, for what total value are they and what are the priorities for 2016? I draw attention to this aspect of the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as I did last year, because I believe that this is one of the potentially very effective instruments which, unfortunately, so far have not been used actively enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Come in for an answer to the question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, thank you for the question first. You know that I am related to the subject and understand the importance of development aid as an instrument for foreign policy making, on the one hand, and on the other, for helping countries that have taken a particular path of development and philosophy of development. The answer is extremely long. I'll try to synthesize it, but I'll be happy to give it to you in writing anyway, so you can get acquainted with the individual elements. As you note, due to the consistent work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on national capacity building in the field of development cooperation, important programming documents such as the Mid-term Development Assistance and Humanitarian Aid Programme for 2013 and 2015 were drawn up and adopted in 2013 as well as the strategic cooperation programmes with four partner countries, the Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Vietnam. The goals of the Bulgarian Government in the field of development cooperation policy are entered within those of the European Union and of the United Nations. At the same time, they also take into account the Bulgarian national interests of development assistance provided by Bulgaria, taking into account the acquis of the European Union in this area, such as combating poverty; strengthening sustainable development and economic integration, and should also be consistent with the commitments agreed at global level with the UN Millennium Goals, replaced in 2015 by sustainable development objectives, representing a new and comprehensive universal framework and based on an approach that includes rule of law; including marginalised social groups and ensuring sustainable economic growth. The strategic objectives of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union are based on the understanding that even in the age of globalisation geography matters and that in our and European interest it is the countries to be well managed. For the Bulgarian government, a strategic geographic priority is the granting of official assistance to countries in the regions of the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership. More widely, Bulgarian aid is also aimed at countries that are neighbouring and conflicting points or are sources of migration flows in order to keep them close to their homeland. The objectives and areas of development aid identified in the mid-term programme take into account the specific Bulgarian experience and capacity created in the years of the transition. Our economic realities are taken into account and the need for optimal targeting and spending of the allocated financial resources for the implementation of the Bulgarian policy of cooperation for development. In concrete terms, Bulgaria's efforts are primarily oriented towards sharing its experience from the process of democratic and market transition with the countries of the Western Balkans and the Eastern Partnership. In this context, as well as as as a result of its geographical, cultural and historical proximity to them, Bulgaria aims to pass on its experience of building working, representative institutions and the process of successful inclusion into the European Union. The past 2015 was the first year in which the financial provision of official development assistance was carried out through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs focused its work on financing development projects in two main programming areas: - the construction of socially important infrastructure, and - the creation of administrative capacity and working democratic institutions in partner countries. In the framework of development cooperation, 26 projects worth 1 million were financed for 2015. Seven hundred and 108 BGN, the response to which is extremely positive. Voluntary contributions have been made in support of international organisations and agencies working in the field of human rights, gender equality, security and post-conflict reconstruction, humanitarian disarmament and others of a total value of 308 thousand. BGN 496. Bulgaria provided humanitarian aid for 980 thousand. £449. through UN agencies and programmes and on a bilateral basis to the population affected by natural disasters and armed conflicts. In project financing, we have always been guided by the following principles: - projects to ensure visibility of the aid granted; - to assist in increasing the authority of Bulgaria; - contribute to strengthening cooperation at government level and trade and economic relations with the partner country. Here are some of the specific highlights in our work on development cooperation and project funding in 2015. In the regional direction of the Western Balkans Bulgaria started the Sofia Competition Forum of the Commission for Protection of Competition. It is aimed at the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Kosovo, the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. In 2015, the project provided assistance to strengthen the administrative capacity of their national authorities engaged in competition policy in order to bring them closer to European Union standards in this area. On a bilateral basis, the project activities aimed at supporting socio-economic and cultural development of areas populated with Bulgarian and mixed populations in Eastern Serbia, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova have been significantly expanded. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] A significant part of the projects in these areas are oriented towards supporting cultural and educational institutions and associations by financing repair activities and equipment; promoting education; cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue; building and maintaining small social infrastructure. Allow me to continue in the back with the rest of my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u130	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Minister, you'll have your chance in a moment. Mr. Vigenin, you have two minutes for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, with interest I will also follow the written version of the answer you provide, because obviously the time will not be enough, but the reason why this year I ask it orally is that I think development aid is an instrument that needs greater publicity, and the exchange of written questions and answers does not give such an opportunity here from the parliamentary tribune to hear what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done. Perhaps to be present in your reply further, but I would like to say that the system approach in providing funds creates the need to build capacity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for planning, monitoring and effective provision of assistance and perhaps the relevant unit that can effectively work on these issues. Is there such a built capacity already, are there obstacles with which we, as MPs, can help overcome them? Secondly, how are the other Bulgarian institutions involved, which can also participate in joint projects through development aid and possibly how do you engage non-governmental organizations in this area, because some of this assistance can pass through the non-governmental sector and give additional added value? I would like not as a third question, but as part of the question itself: however, what part of the 4 million foreseen in the budget. BGN, if I am not mistaken, were used in 2015 and, if the full amount is not used, what measures will you take so that in 2016 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Bulgaria, respectively, can fully use these funds for development assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, the procedure allows two questions. You'll be the judge of that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, I will continue with the answer in a second. I have mentioned the amounts that have been allocated this year and which have been used for 1 million. Seven hundred and BGN 108. for 26 projects, voluntary contributions to support international organisations and agencies working in the field of human rights, gender equality, security and post-conflict reconstruction, humanitarian disarmament and others of a total value of 308 thousand. BGN 496. and humanitarian aid for 980 thousand. £449. through UN agencies and programmes on a bilateral basis of the population affected by natural disasters and armed conflicts. You can see for yourself what the amount is. I will also tell you this: this is a problem that you know well and understand. Our legislation at the moment, such as it is, does not allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to effectively use the funds earmarked for development aid. We cannot plan long-term, as budgeting is on an annual basis. We must draw up either a special law or propose relevant changes to legislation in various laws to do the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially with regard to development aid, flexible, capable of being planned long-term and cooperating with development programmes of other countries, our allies and partners, because combining resources is extremely important in this case, if we have set strategic goals that other partners have. This can be extremely useful in Bulgarian interest and in the interests of partner countries. Here I will continue with my answer from a while ago. The result of the implementation of the Serbian Employers' Union's Project for Entrepreneurship Assistance among small and medium-sized businesses in underdeveloped municipalities in Southeast Serbia is very positive. The project contributes to the development of the private initiative in municipalities with lower economic development in Southeast Serbia, helps to establish the Association of Producers of Goods and Services, as well as training centres for the use of Serbia's pre-accession programmes. Bulgaria has managed to start implementing long-term projects in the Republic of Moldova, where it is currently working in close partnership with the UN Development Programme in one of the most economically and socially disadvantaged Taraklia region. Development aid in the Republic of Macedonia is oriented towards the creation of expert technical capacity in support of the harmonisation of regulations and practices in line with European Union standards and the establishment of socially important infrastructure. The project activity in areas creating visibility and recognition by the local public has also been significantly expanded, namely supporting a school for children with intellectual difficulties in Skopje by building a room for sensory rehabilitation, financing small repairs in schools and kindergartens in Bitolsko. Our partnership with Georgia is very dynamic because of the increased Georgian interest in Bulgarian experience. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The activity of the Bulgarian departments in the work on the project activity was activated. As an example, the implemented projects, together with the Ministry of Interior, can be identified to build the operational and technical capacity of police forces in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan, within civil protection training courses, disaster response and fire safety, combating human trafficking and narcotics. As my time is over, I will take this opportunity to present my response in writing so that you can get acquainted in detail with it and see the goals set for 2016. Yes, we need to talk more often on this topic and discuss more often what we do on development aid, because Bulgarian citizens need to know it, and ultimately this development aid must become more effective and be used as an instrument of our foreign policy and achieve the objectives set out in our plans by supporting our partners to the countries with which we work on this assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, asking gives you the opportunity to express your attitude to the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your information. It is, however, clear that we have actually used less than half of the funds planned. It is clear that there are certain difficulties in this direction, but we need to have the ambition more fully and more effectively these funds, which we are obliged to provide anyway, to do so in a way that is useful to Bulgaria. As for the issue of the difficulties that Bulgarian legislation puts before the effective use of these funds, I believe that it will not be a problem and I believe that there will be a very broad understanding in the various committees in the Bulgarian Parliament to make such changes, but it seems to me that in this case the initiative should come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the team working in this area. The sooner we do it, the better. We must try to achieve and work on projects that give greater visibility, because I have also faced this problem. Most of the funds actually go to humanitarian aid, contributions to trust funds. Of course, it is important that Bulgaria's name is on the donor list, but when there are countries that give tens and hundreds of millions, and we are present with 50 thousand, this at least personally seems to me to have the opposite effect sometimes. For example, with these 50 thousand, many visible projects can be achieved in the countries that are priority for our partnership. Again, you will have our support, but therefore our criticism, because I stress that the funds that the Ministry can actually have are not used effectively enough and fully. I believe that here you should do more specifically to engage other institutions that have relevant partnerships, the non-governmental sector, so that some of these projects can be implemented more widely and through them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is normal that the capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not enough for everything, but with a wider mobilization, I think that would be possible in search of concrete and direct visible effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u136	Thank you. The next question is from the MP Kristian Ivanov Vigenin on a campaign to elect the UN Secretary-General. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It's a short question, not to join the common choir, that it's been set up for a long time, but if I may give a word of advice. However, today there were many questions, interesting questions with sufficiently interesting information, but they will literally be lost in the media space, because normally the media will bring out one or two of these or news from what we are talking about today, and part of it will not achieve the effect otherwise, which would have been informed about the measures that the Ministry is taking on one or another subject. It is true that the Minister's travels and absence from the hall are often justified, but therefore Friday's control should be planned. Mr. Minister, I cannot fail to express my satisfaction that the procedure for nomination of Mrs. Irina Bokova as Bulgaria's candidate for the post of UN Secretary General ended with your letter from the beginning of February. It is important, however, from now on what the Bulgarian state and specifically the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does in support of its campaign for this post. I would like to ask in this regard: so far what actions have been taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? How do you plan to organise and coordinate this campaign? How does the Ministry entrusted to you plan to mobilise the opportunities of the Bulgarian institutions in support of this application? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u138	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! By letter dated 15 December 2015, signed by the Presidents of the UN General Assembly Mogens Luketft and the Security Council Samantha Power, a call was made for the UN Member States to submit candidates for the post of UN Secretary-General to be employed after the expiry of the mandate of the current UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon at the end of 2016. With this act was actually launched the process of presenting candidates and the race for taking the responsible post. In accordance with Decision No 404 of 19 June 2014 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria by letter of 9 February 2016, addressed to the President of the Security Council and Chairman of the UN General Assembly, the Republic of Bulgaria formally nominated Mrs. Irina Bokova as a candidate for the post of Secretary-General of the United Nations. With her extensive professional experience in multilateral diplomacy, Mrs. Bokova meets the requirements for taking up this important international post. There have been seven applications so far, of which six have been submitted by countries of the Eastern European Group and one of the group of Western European other countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has prepared an action plan and a concept for Mrs. Bokova's election campaign. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was established an operational task force on the application, and Ambassador Rayko Raychev was appointed as head of the group and coordinator of the campaign. The Director General for Global Affairs, former permanent representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in the UN and an employee with long experience in multilateral diplomacy. The group includes directors of leading directorates, senior officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, involved in conducting the campaign in the relevant regions and key countries. The operational working group has already held its first meeting, which is attended by Mrs. Bokova. The two documents were discussed at the meeting. The Concept and the Action Plan. Here I will make one clarification: both documents will try as quickly as possible to reach the leadership of the National Assembly and especially to its President, Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva. The Bulgarian candidate outlined his views on the stages, the accents of the campaign and the overall organization of the campaign, which were taken into account in the two documents and incorporated in the subsequent instructions sent to the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Concept and the Action Plan were subsequently approved by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Directions were sent to all overseas representations containing basic guidelines for information, analytical and logistical provision of the campaign, as well as specific guidelines taking into account the specific nature of work in individual countries. In view of the specifics of the procedure and the modalities of the election of the Secretary-General, it is planned to be a priority activity aimed at obtaining the support of the members of the Security Council. In order for the candidate to succeed, the Secretary-General must receive at least nine votes in support of the members of the Security Council and no veto from the permanent members. In this context, taking timely comprehensive and effective action to ensure the support of the member states of the Security Council, especially the five permanent members and more than four of the erratic members [[the President signals that time has run out]] is critical to the success of UN Secretary-General campaigns. Secondly, our efforts will be focused on the countries of the Eastern European Regional Group, although the principle of balanced regional representation in the election of the Secretary-General is not explicitly indicated and a number of members of the Security Council to maintain the preference for a more open approach to the future selection, there is a widespread understanding and attitude among UN members based on the factual situation that the new Secretary-General is desirable to be broadcast among the candidates represented by the Eastern European Group. I'll continue with the answer, I have more to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will be interested to hear the rest of the answer to the question. Far be it from me to make general statements or lines. However, to say that I welcome what has been done so far by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is true that there has been an impression of a lack of particular enthusiasm about the work on this issue, but sometimes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a slightly more difficult machine to drive. I think we're at a stage where a really effective job begins to support Irina Bokova's candidacy. I also welcome what you said was going to be a priority work in the Eastern European Group, because the fact that so many candidates have been admitted will definitely make consolidation difficult for one candidate, namely that of Irina Bokova. However, I would suggest, if not entirely, at least part of this plan, that the main elements of this plan be presented to the Committee on Foreign Policy and that we discuss accordingly how they can be engaged besides the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diplomatic Representations and the other institutions, I also mean President, Prime Minister, the Bulgarian Parliament. We know that Bulgaria for the first time participates in such a competition, which is complicated, requires a lot of effort and sometimes every added value is very important. In this sense, I will count on you to do what is necessary as a minister to engage everyone who could contribute to the success of this campaign. And to make an expectation that I made to some of the MPs, I do not want to pay particular attention to names now, but the continuation of the campaign against the Bulgarian candidate I think is a failure policy that works against Bulgaria in the first place and not so much against the candidacy itself. So I really call on all the comments that have already been made repeatedly to stop and to concentrate on really constructive efforts from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u142	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vigenin! Before I proceed with the second part of the answer, I will, of course, repeat something that I said earlier as soon as the letter with the nomination itself is sent, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is open and I will personally instruct the task force to discuss and accept assistance from anyone who enjoys international authority and opportunities in any way to assist the campaign. You're welcome, Mr. Vigenin, you know perfectly well. So is everyone else. I expect those who actively supported Mrs. Bokova before her nomination, and now and after, to participate in this campaign, all those who insisted on her nomination, I want to actively engage and use all their foreign policy potential and authority to protect this candidacy. We also take significant account of the support of key countries such as Spain, Italy, Japan, Brazil, South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt and others. Some of these countries are currently erratic members of the Security Council. Others, although not members of the Security Council, are highly influential regionally and internationally and may have an impact on the positioning of other countries or groups of countries. From the point of view of the time parameters in the campaign, the following three stages can be defined. The first stage: presentation of nominations of the main group of candidates by the end of March and the beginning of April where the first hearing of candidates is scheduled to take place. Given that the process of nomination of candidates remains open, it should not be excluded under certain conditions that nominating candidates should be excluded even after the start of the process of examining candidates in the Security Council, which is scheduled to start from the end of July 2016. The hearing of candidates to informal briefings of the UN General Assembly shall be an important event given the open nature of the meeting and the publicity to be given to the presentation of the candidates involved. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The second stage: from the first hearing to the beginning of the process of examining candidates in the Security Council. The third stage is from the end of July until the nominations of the selected candidate from the Security Council and examination of the candidate from the UN General Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask for some more time, because this is important. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a defining role to play in the campaign in terms of constant follow-up, coordination and information-analytic work. Following the overseas representations, the New York PP, the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the member states of the Security Council, embassies in the erratic members of the Security Council, embassies in the countries of the Eastern European Group and permanent representations in Geneva, Brussels and Vienna. The Embassy in Paris will carry out the important function of transmitting the information coming through the overseas representations and forwarding it to the Bulgarian candidate. All essential issues related to the content and organisation of the campaign shall be coordinated promptly with Mrs. Bokova, taking into account her commitment as Director-General of UNESCO and her ability to participate in appropriate international forms. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the engagement of senior state figures and structures, including President, Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly and other state officials, directly and indirectly involved in the matter will contribute to a full campaign. At present, and in accordance with the plan of the campaign, a diplomatic contact officer on the campaign has been appointed in each external representation. Instructions are given for sending information about the preparation of analytical reports and political portraits of Mrs. Bokova's competition. Information on expressing opinions and comments from officials as well as on the media about the nominated candidates, including the Bulgarian candidacy, are systematically received.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u144	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u145	The first guidelines for demarsh service and support for the candidacy of the member states of the Security Council and the Eastern European Group are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u146	Thank you. The next question is also from the MP Kristian Ivanov Vigenin on a possible NATO security operation at the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u147	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In your public statement in the media on February 15th, you say that if NATO's planned operation in the Aegean Sea results, Bulgaria will insist that NATO has a land operation along the Bulgarian-Turkish and Greek-Turkish border. In this regard, I would like to ask you: is this possibility actually discussed by the Bulgarian government? Is there a solution in this direction? On the basis of what analyses or proposals of those responsible for refugee and border security institutions and bodies is approved such an intention if approved? More like information. Yesterday the Minister of Defence Nenchev said that such an idea has, but does not want to go into details. I believe that Bulgarian citizens need more clarification, more information, because the words of a minister are important. Given that NATO's operation was initially estimated to be successful, does this mean that Bulgaria is addressing a request for such assistance from NATO? What kind of character would she have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u148	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, Bulgaria supported NATO's decision to send a permanent naval group to the Aegean Sea and will participate with its frigate in its allied efforts to support the fight against human trafficking and to end the worst migration crisis in Europe since the end of World War II. In the short and medium term, we cannot expect a significant reduction in migration flow, with very likely actions aimed at deterring it to lead to a redirection of the migrant route. We are concerned about the possible redirection of the mixed refugee migration flow on land towards the countries of NATO's southeastern border and also through the Black Sea aquatory. It is therefore particularly important for Bulgaria to assess the impact of the operational actions of the Aegean Alliance. Here I would like to make another clarification from the point of view of the concept apparatus. It's not................................................................................................ We demand that options be formulated for Union action in the event of a massive refugee wave across the land borders of the countries of the southeastern flank of Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey. Migration is a common problem and a long-term working solution can only be found with joint efforts, including between the European Union and NATO, and in a spirit of understanding between all countries concerned or at risk. In this sense, the planning of NATO's joint action in the Aegean Sea should be in coordination with the European Union "all policies, instruments and means, including Frontex, to find opportunities to deter the refugee migration flow and land, including through the use of prevention and early warning resources. An effective control at the external borders of the Union will be of paramount importance in controlling migration to the countries of the European Union. Additional support is needed to strengthen them in close cooperation on both bilateral and multilateral basis within the European Union and NATO. In short: an assessment of the impact of the operational joint actions of the Aegean Alliance must be carried out. You know they only started a few days ago. It will take a little more time to make a real assessment of the results and assess the risk of whether criminal networks dealing with trafficking in human beings will not redirect their efforts towards land borders between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, between Greece and Turkey and the Black Sea basin. If a similar type of movement is noticed and the analysis indicates that there is a similar risk, we can go to ask for such a type of joint action along the line that I have just listed. When a precedent has been set in the Aegean Sea, there is no problem in moving these actions, or at least insisting that similar efforts be redirected to the direction of the line that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! I would not say that the answer to the question was specific enough. However, suppose the following: some analyses are being carried out at the moment, perhaps in the Ministry of Defence there is some preparation for possible such proposals. I would not like us to turn parliamentary control here into a public discussion of specific details. You understand that in part of the Bulgarian society there are some concerns about this type of operational action, regardless of what we call them, with the possible presence of NATO formations on our territory, outside the Bulgarian army, which is also an army of NATO, which will prove to be a cause for permanent accommodation here of a military formation.............................which I stress, again, most of the Bulgarian citizens are at least skeptical or express their opinion against. Of course, NATO assistance can have a different character, not necessarily purely military. I would recommend that whatever is being undertaken from now on, first the opportunities of the Bulgarian Army be exhausted to support the Border Police for dealing with this problem and only then to think of other options. Whatever is done, in advance, to go through discussion and coordination in Parliament, in the respective parliamentary committees, and not again to put the Bulgarian Parliament and society before a done fact. Fighting illegal migration and ensuring security is something that is widely supported in the Bulgarian Parliament by both the government and the opposition, but together it is necessary for the executive to have the necessary dialogue in order not to be put in place, I stress again, to a done fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We move on to the next issue by the MP Atanas Stoyanov on the opening of the checkpoint between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u153	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The realization of projects related to the opening of border crossing points with our neighbouring countries is one of the tools for improving interneighborly relations, increasing trade economic relations, as well as the development of cultural exchange between countries. On the other hand, this helps and facilitates the free movement of people between the Balkan countries. The opening of the Cepalo Border Crossing Point between the Republic and the Republic of Macedonia has repeatedly raised and debated a matter in various state institutions, including in the National Assembly by our colleagues. It continues to be up-to-date because, unfortunately, for years, a number of formal efforts have been made to implement it. However, all initiatives so far have been ineffective. The lack of interest and active action by several governments is obvious. This inevitably harms the economy of the Southwestern region and the normal relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. The agreement signed in 1999 between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia for the opening of two new border points, one of which is precisely this "Clepalo," between the municipalities of Strumyani and Berovo, is in force, but this Agreement is not supported by actual factual and legal actions by a Bulgarian country. Dear Minister, in this regard, my question to you is: what are the reasons for the lack of serious factual actions by the Bulgarian side regarding the realization of this border crossing point? Is this project a priority for the Bulgarian government? Eventually what actual actions will be taken for its accelerated realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. For an answer, Mr. Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, signed on 14 June 1999 in Skopje Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia for the opening of two new international road border crossing points between the two countries connecting the municipalities of Simitli Pechchevo and Strumyani Berovo, is in force at present. The agreement has an unlimited character. Regarding the opening of the new border crossing, Clepalo, in the direction of Strumiyani, Berovo, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that the requirements resulting from our future accession to the Schengen area should be taken into account. In this context, as well as in view of the need to update the time limits laid down in the Agreement, it would be appropriate to review the specific ideas for the construction of the border crossing in question at a meeting of the Interdepartmental Border Control Board with the Council of Ministers, including the possibility of a joint crossing with the Republic of Macedonia. I would like to point out that the appropriate road infrastructure is only one of the prerequisites for opening a new border crossing point. Data on existing and predicted traffic of road vehicles through the Clepalo crossings are extremely important. At the same time, it is necessary to maintain the three active crossings with the Republic of Macedonia, as well as with other neighbouring countries through which traffic is particularly intensive. In this regard, the expert opinion of the competent Bulgarian institutions should be sought. In conclusion, I would like to confirm the unchanged opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that for the strengthening of the travel flow between two neighbouring countries, such as the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, an additional number of border crossing points, including the Clepalo crossing point, are needed. This will stimulate economic growth in border regions, will contribute to the growth of tourism and tourism services in Western Bulgaria and will further bring people on both sides of the border closer together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The People's Representative Atanas Stoyanov, Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your information. It is obvious that certain steps are being taken towards relevant investigative actions and forecasts regarding the construction of the border crossing point of Clepalo. It is perfectly logical, of course, to have relevant legal, economic analyses on the regional and national effects of building this point, but, unfortunately, as you have said, it is obvious that there is a lack of synchronization between the institutions concerned, because for years literally nothing is done. On the Macedonian side, the road has been completed to the fullest there are already the relevant road infrastructure and the relevant administrative buildings. On their part there is financial and administrative capacity, and on the Bulgarian side for years there are no serious factual actions.. only transfer the ball from office to office, from Ministry of Ministry, government to government. Unfortunately, the utility rate is zero. When it comes to a checkpoint on the border with the Republic of Macedonia, this further increases its importance in view of our historical, ethnic and friendly, if you will, purely human relations with the people on both sides of this border. In this case, there is also an emotional moment on both sides of the border are brothers and sisters, relatives and relatives. What you are saying is that opportunities should be sought in order to comply with our Schengen status, with the rehabilitation of the roads on our part, it is really important, but I appeal to you Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. A hole? You're not going to use your right to the back. The next question is from the MP Ivan Ivanov on the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues, I also want the Bulgarian public to hear, because I think this issue has been poorly discussed lately. For this reason, I am also provoked to ask the question about the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. It is true that this organisation is institutionally outside the structures of the European Union, but its importance must not be underestimated at all. In this regard, the Bulgarian Presidency I know that for the implementation of the main strategic goal you have set yourself, namely the confirmation of the values and principles of Euro-Atlantic unification and European cooperation and unification, there are several main priorities set out during this Presidency. I would like you to say before us, Dear Minister, what is your assessment of the effectiveness of the Bulgarian Presidency, as well as the extent of implementation, of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe? This topic, I think, should not remain in the background of the daily topics that concern the Bulgarian society. Moreover, we have a greater test ahead of us. The Presidency of the European Union in two years. I think we should consider this a dress rehearsal for what we're about to do. Just to understand both our colleagues and Bulgarian citizens what is currently being done in this direction. At the very least, from your response in some way to promote this thing that is happening right now. I am convinced that the majority of citizens may hear for the first time that we are presidents of this Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For an answer, Mr. Mitov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Bulgaria took over the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 10 November 2015 in Strasbourg for a period of six months. It will end with a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the Council of Europe on 18 May 2016 in Sofia. For the period of its Presidency, each country identifies policies that fall within the sphere of activity of the Organisation and are both a priority for the President State concerned, and are also important for a wide range of Member States of the Council of Europe. In this context, in June 2015, by order of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov an Interdepartmental Commission was established, which drew up the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency and Calendar of National Initiatives adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers of 23 September 2015. Member of the Council of Europe since 1992, the Republic of Bulgaria has given priority to the fundamental values of the Organisation in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy, whose protection and validation represent the main strategic objective of its second Presidency of the Committee of Ministers. The Bulgarian Presidency focuses on the following priorities: protecting the rights of the child and extending access to young people's culture, protecting the media from external influence, protecting vulnerable groups and other priorities. A number of departments are engaged in the initiatives approved by the Council of Ministers and are organizers of the various events of competence under the above priorities. So far, all national and international initiatives translated into the Calendar of Events have been implemented. The meeting of the Bureau and the Permanent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Sofia, which was held on 26 November 2015, the International Conference on High Level on the topic of the Democratic Security, based on European Unity and Cooperation, organized in February 2016 at the initiative of Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, Head of the Bulgarian Delegation to PACE, with the participation of the Presidents of the Foreign Policy Committees of the Council of Europe, Deputy Secretary General of the Council of Europe and representatives of PACE, as well as the meeting of the Bureau of Congress of the Council of Europe 10 December 2015, organized by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Association of Municipalities. Finally, I would like to stress that the implementation of the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency is in line with the development of the main political processes of interest for democratic security in Europe, such as the situation in Ukraine, the threat of radicalisation leading to terrorist acts, dynamic migration processes and respect for human rights. As Chairman of the Committee of Ministers, the Republic of Bulgaria works closely with the Secretary-General and all the bodies of the Council of Europe system, in particular with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Congress for Local and Regional Authorities, the European Court of Human Rights, the Venice Commission, Commissioners for Human Rights and others. The parallel between the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and the forthcoming Presidency of the European Council can be drawn such a parallel, but frankly, the two presidencies are so different and require so different preparation that it is difficult for me to imagine how exactly one of us can prepare for the other, but you are right that the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe is the most important foreign policy task Bulgaria has right now. I have just listed what the real actions have already been taken and what is to come in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I think it is appropriate to read lectures on European institutions, but not here, to the MPs. At the beginning, I determined that these were different things.. both one institution and the other, but I was under the impression that all these actions that were carried out in the implementation of the main strategic goal and priorities remained somewhere in the quiet diplomacy part. And with our colleagues, we have discussed much of the events that you have set out remain in the nothingness, that is, we have not understood from your statement what the exact results of this thing are, what happens, what follows from all these conferences that took place, from all these meetings. Of course, I hope that what you have shared with us does not in any way diminish the status of this kind of non-governmental organisation, which, of course, has a dignified representation, and through its Parliamentary Assembly and the decisions taken there, do not remain irrelevant. If you could tell us what the results of the direction in which it is being worked are in order to achieve the main strategic goal? How do you see them? We want to be informed. Personally, I do not believe that our Presidency should not be regarded as anything of the slightest importance and should not be bound as a dress rehearsal for our future Presidency of the European Union, because in this direction talks remain darkened. Of course, you are not the responsible person and team leader for this preparation, but still, representing Bulgaria abroad, you should at least shed some light on what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, will you use the right to the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will clarify this. Since we are talking about the results of the forums already held, at the end of our Presidency we will report on what has been achieved. It is normal to do so because during the organization of relevant forums and the organization of relevant formats and talks lead to the session of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe organised on 18 May in Sofia. The Bulgarian Presidency will now come out with its report, as well as a declaration from the ministers' meeting of Sofia itself. This will be largely the exact result. I'd be happy to have another conversation like this. I have no doubt that you will ask me a question again in this direction, for which I thank you, of course. At times, the Council of Europe remains a little bit further away from the focus of public attention, which is not right, but I must tell you that we, as the Ministry and Parliament, and the MPs who are involved in the composition of our representation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have done our best to give maximum publicity to the events that are being organised and to the topics that are being discussed during these events. Maybe sometimes media interest is not that great, but we do our best to promote our activities and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the last question to you from today's parliamentary control. He is one of the MP Valeri Zablyanov on the work on the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u167	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my question, I will continue the topic that has been raised by my colleague, the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, the extent of their implementation and the way in which they are formulated in order to establish the burden of the agenda set by us in Europe and to what extent we are able to influence these issues. That is, not to turn our Presidency into a formal presence on a purely rotational principle into a structure that defines policy within Europe to a very large extent. Because, as is known, the Council of Europe is an organisation that unites countries that are not members of the European Union. First of all, my question is directly related to the degree of implementation of the priority as created for access to young people's culture. This is the first priority that has been formulated within the framework of our Presidency. What is obvious is that in relation to this priority, a national conference with the same topic is planned to be organized. I mean, it's not about a secondary issue. It is about access to the culture of Europe's youth and thus overcoming the toughest and sharpest issues related to the deepening social, religious and other conflicts within the continent. In Bulgaria, many measures have been taken, long before our Presidency, in this direction. In 2015, a study of a civil institute was carried out and it was found that 53% of respondents found that they were unable to benefit from the achievements of culture on a national scale in relation to the high prices of all forms of access to cultural events and events. It seems to me that access to culture, as formulated during a national conference, is extremely insufficient for it to be a priority. Of course, there is a regional conference planned, but it concerns cultural heritage, not access to young people's culture. Do you not think that organised this way, the implementation of this priority, compromises to a very large extent the subject itself, compromises Bulgaria's ability to organise the Presidency and the implementation of priorities in the appropriate way and creates the feeling of an extremely formal bureaucratic administrative approach to their implementation, something that no one benefits from?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u168	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Experienced parliamentarians are 3 minutes and 15 seconds was your question. For a line, you'll have 50 seconds. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, the extension of young people's access to culture is one of the main priorities, as you said, which is the focus of the efforts of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in the implementation of our main strategic goal - confirming the values and principles of European unification and cooperation. Expanding access to culture is a necessary condition for self-expression and cultivation, and you have also said that you address the deepening social, religious and any other differences, as well as to help the process of social integration and reduce the risks of racism and xenophobia. In this context, in the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency in the period 11 May 2016 will be organized National Conference on the Theme "Extending access to the cultural heritage." The conference will be held in Gabrovo under the patronage of the Ministry of Culture. The National Conference is designed for workers in the cultural heritage sector. It will also focus on visitors with special needs and will focus on working with young people. The Conference provides for foreign participation. It includes special day-to-day training related to the role of museum mediation in attracting potential youth audiences. Coming out of the text, I will solidarity with you and with the position expressed by you that access to young people's culture is one of the tools that we should deal with when addressing problems or risks associated with manifestations of racism, xenophobia and various types of integration. It is clear that within a six-month presidency, we will not be able to solve the problem, but we can put it on the table so that national institutions can get an idea of the scale of the problem. In this House, and with all the other institutions, we need to start talking about how to improve this access and synchronise our legislation, take appropriate action, so that we can move towards expanding young people's access to culture. Therefore, I do not think that the agenda thus set during our Presidency somehow reduces our priorities or makes them formal. Our task is to focus the attention of both society and institutions on a problem that really exists. You said it in your exhibition. From then on, we need to look for ways not only here in Bulgaria, but regionally in Europe to look for ways to ensure greater access for young people to culture. And the cultural heritage is part of the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u171	Dear Minister, I, too, will refer to your speech, where you say that the priorities of the Member State in question lie in the priorities which become the priorities of the Presidency itself. How to consider the recent events we observe in our public life, with open, insolent and unceremonious destruction of architectural monuments of culture? The last example is in Plovdiv. In the spirit of these practical actions by the municipal authorities, of the lack of governance by the cultural institutes, we state that access by young people to culture is a priority. It is a priority, but the young people in Plovdiv have arranged to protect the destruction of tobacco stores! The administrative, bureaucratic approach in matters does not raise the role of Bulgaria. Only our formal presence as presidents of the Council of Europe will not lead to the rise of our international prestige. Secondly, the main problem with access to young people's culture is a social issue. A large part of the answers in the poll stress that the issue is related to the high prices of cultural events. The distance of small towns and municipalities, the lack of family encouragement, too. I would like to stress that the Italian prime minister just a few months ago stated categorically that in the area of culture it should be spent as much as in the area of security. It seems to me that there is sufficient reason for this statement to be taken into account. This is the active position, not the holding of a conference in Gabrovo on a national scale with international participation. It seems to me that this is not an event that is connected and can be seen as a priority. I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make appropriate assessment in ordering and building priorities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thanks for the reminder. In our next Presidency, and as it turned out, there is no connection between this and the next, but I hope that there really is no connection, because this so far is very weak.. I want to take priorities, their realization and the events on them much more seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u172	Mr. Jablyanov, I really ask you to end this because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u173	It's a very clerical approach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u174	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u175	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I do not know what the current and next Presidency you are talking about, because the next Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for Bulgaria will be in a very long time. As already mentioned, our Presidency in the Council of the European Union is quite another thing. No one's ever made a connection between the two. And you can't make a connection. You know that the very existence of the Council of Europe is very different from the existence of the European Union as an organisation, as goals and approach. I understand your pathos, but what I can tell you is that within the framework of similar presidencies, we can make an initiative that will focus public attention on a particular problem. You mention specific cases. Great, here is another occasion for such cases and topics to be discussed at an international forum. There is no other mechanism in the Council of Europe to use to focus attention. There are other initiatives. I may not have listed them to you, but it's working that way. In no case does Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Presidency accept itself as formal. On the contrary, we are actively working on all the topics that are at stake. I'll say this. The priorities set are largely intertwined with the dynamic international situation and with the idea that the Council of Europe should address problems such as the crisis in Ukraine, the migration crisis and many other things in its specific way, given its objectives. We must also look in this direction to be aware that the Bulgarian Presidency is not limited to the question that you have raised. A moment ago, in my previous reply it became clear that the Bulgarian Presidency has a much wider framework. The other very important point is that when a Presidency is taken over, and that you know perfectly well that priorities are agreed with the previous and next Presidency. In other words, these are sustainable priorities within the Council of Europe, but not only for Bulgaria, but also for other countries, especially those who have a Presidency before us, and those who will take over the Presidency after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Boris Yachev on the provision of consular services to Bulgarians living on the island of Crete, the Hellenic Republic. Mr. Yachev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we received a signature as MPs from the Initiative Committee to the Association of Bulgarians on Crete with a request for the opening of the Consulate of the Republic of Bulgaria in the city of Iraklion, the capital of Crete. According to unofficial statistics on the island of Crete live constantly around 15 thousand. Bulgarians, and at least another 10 thousand. are seasonal workers - Bulgarian citizens. All of these compatriots are faced with a serious problem related to receiving administrative services from the Bulgarian state. In order to use consular services or the services of our embassy in Athens, Bulgarians living in Crete must lose a lot of time and money. The journey between Crete and Athens by ferry is one night on the way back and one night on the way back. The same distance must be passed at least once again to obtain the already finished documents. At the same time, there are administrative services that do not take more than a few minutes, in some cases printing only, for which it is necessary to do the same journey. This often puts the Bulgarians in the inability to use the services of the embassy, respectively, the consulate because of absence of work and problems with the Greek employers. On the island of Crete there are four major cities with a large Bulgarian diaspora "Iraklion," Retimno, Hanya and Yerapetra. In these cities, polling stations were also opened for the 2015 referendum. A total of four, where, notice, voting activity was second and third after the section in Athens from the 80 polling stations in Greece. I am aware, Minister, that at this stage the financial constraints most likely create difficulties for the opening of the Consulate of the Republic of Bulgaria on the island of Crete. However, given the above, my question to you is: is it possible for the Foreign Ministry, through the embassy in Athens, to organise the so-called "exported days" in the capital of the island of Crete at least four times a year, once every season, with full cooperation from the Bulgarian citizens living there and after prior subscription of those willing to use the administrative services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. For an answer, Mr. Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yachev! I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was acquainted with the proposal of the Association of Bulgarians on the island of Crete for the opening of the consulate of the Republic of Bulgaria in the city of Iraklion, the island of Crete or if it is not possible to hold an export of consular days in the cities of the island with a larger number of Bulgarian citizens. The opinion of the Ministry on this proposal is as follows. Taking into account the number, organisation and representativeness of the Bulgarian community on the island of Crete, we consider that it is currently inappropriate to initiate a procedure for the opening of the Consular Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria on the island. Similar in number and degree of organization Bulgarian communities have, for example, in Malta and the Azores, where the consular service of our compatriots there is provided by holding the export of consular days by the consular services of our Embassy in Rome and the Consulate General in Valencia. In this context, we believe that to facilitate consular service for Bulgarian citizens living on the islands of Crete and Rhodes, it would be acceptable to organise and regularly conduct by officials of the Consular Office of the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Athens on exported consular days on both islands. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the organisation of three or four exported consular days per year is linked to the engagement of an additional financial, material and personnel resources of the embassy which it does not currently have. It should also be borne in mind that the introduction of the practice of regular travel by consular officials to the island of Crete or Rhodes is possible to trigger avalanche requests from the Bulgarian communities of other Greek islands to provide such a service, which could further burden the activities of the consular office of our diplomatic representation. In view of the above, I believe that in accordance with the possibilities of the Consular Service at the Embassy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Athens, it would be realistic to organise the exported consular days on the island of Crete or Rhodes no more than twice in the calendar year. This will require maintaining the current personnel security, updating the budget and additional material provision of our embassy in the Greek capital, which we will, of course, do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yachev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u181	Rather, a satisfaction, of course, from the Minister's reply, because although a small and first step, this is a step in the good direction. The realistic desire of Bulgarians living on the island of Crete was related to the disclosure of exported consular days or the provision of exported consular services. Minister, I think that similar receptions of the consul on the island of Crete are quite sufficient, as they can also serve the Bulgarian citizens who live on neighboring islands such as Rhodes, Santorini and Koss Island. At the same time, with regard to the time, resources and efforts to be used and spent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am sure that the cooperation of representatives of the Association of Bulgarians living on the island of Crete, we met them in the Bulgarian Parliament, this is a very active group of people officially registered in accordance with the Greek legislation as an association, develop a very serious public and educational activity, including Sunday schools, for which they receive assistance from the Ministry of Education and Science. Thanks to their initiative and the desire to assist these exported consular days can be realized very quickly. They are ready to provide an organisation, to provide the relevant premises, to assist local authorities to make lists, so that in a mutual coordination of efforts, I think this can be implemented in a very short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u182	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. A hole? You don't want to. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question asked to you. You have thus fulfilled your constitutional obligation to participate in parliamentary control. Have a good job! We are going to answer questions from the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question is from the MP Chavdar Georgiev on violations of environmental legislation in the mine for fluoride mining in the town of Chiprovtsi. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u183	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister. It is sadly known that Northwestern Bulgaria is the least developed and poorest region not only in the country, but also throughout the European Union. Years ago, a balanced region was developed from which people did not flee to Spain or Italy. The municipality of Chiprovtsi is one of the municipalities with the highest unemployment rate of over 35%, which will unfortunately increase because the fluoride mining plant has ceased its operation. The people there are without livelihoods, people suffer from poverty and if we allow them to take risks to their health and because of a negative impact on environmental components of the same extraction of fluoride, this will, in my opinion, be the end of the region and we will depopulate it. During the last 2015 from the locality of Lukova Padina.................................................................................................................................................................................... tons of raw materials. This extraction, of course, is related to the formation of waste, has an undisclosed waste storage unit, for which there was even public information that contained some radioactivity. That is why I am asking you the questions to stimulate you to perform your control functions strictly. Foreign investors should not be allowed to use national wealth but should not fulfil environmental obligations. My questions are clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u184	I ask you to formulate them because the time for the question is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u185	I'm formulating them. During and in connection with the operation of the fluoride mining plant in the city of Chiprovtsi, have there been any violations of environmental legislation? Of what nature are they? Are dirt or damage permitted, threatening the health and life of citizens? Are sanctions imposed on the concessionaire and what? I'm waiting for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u186	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, in answer to your questions, I would like to inform you of the following. Since 2011 in the underground mine of Lukina Padina and a refurbishing factory for primary processing of fluorite raw material, the land of the village of Zhelezna, Municipality of Chiprovtsi, Montana district, is carried out the production of non-ferrous useful waste material, from the town of Bulgaria fluorite Ltd. Sofia. Waste water is formed from the activity of the sites, according to the permits issued by the Swimming Directorate of Dunavski district. Pleven, the minewaters from the underground pit are drained in the ravines of Lucina Padina and the wastewaters from the enrichment factory after their removal in the wasteyard are drained in the river Golyamo Bukovets. By 31 March each year, the company shall submit to the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection (RIEW), a report on the fulfilment of the conditions in its discharge permits issued for the previous year, including the results of its own monitoring of waste water. Each year by the RIEW "Montana," control is carried out over the activities of the sites in compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation, including control monitoring of waste water. The Regional Inspection also carried out checks on incoming signs of contamination. During the period 2012-2015, the results of the control and own monitoring carried out showed an excess of the individual emission limits set by the permits, according to the indicators of dissolved substances of sulphates, manganese and arsenic, for waste water from the enrichment plant only. For the excesses found in the RIEW, the sanctions are imposed in accordance with art. 69 of the Environmental Protection Act, totaling over 40 thousand. BGN, of which nearly 30 thousand. lv. have been translated into Chiprovtsi Municipality. In addition to the sanctions imposed in 2014 the company was drawn up an act and a criminal decree of 1000 BGN was issued. for the determination of the discharge of uncleaned waste water on the basis of art. 200 of the Water Act. On 10 February 2016, after a signal from the mayor of the village of Zhelezna for air pollution in the village area, an inspection was carried out immediately by experts of the Inspection, together with a representative of the municipality of Chiprovtsi, the mayor of the village of Zhelezna and representatives of the village of Bulgaria fluorite. Atmospheric air dusting has been found due to the disassembly of pipes and systems for dewing the storage compartment. A criminal order for this infringement will be issued within the statutory period. The company has informed the RIEW "Montana" that by decision of the sole owner, as you mentioned, from 28 January 2016 the extraction and processing of fluorite was terminated and a letter was sent from the Regional Inspection to the Ministry of Energy to take action in jurisdiction under the Underground Treasures Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u188	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Georgiev. While you are coming to the stand: honourable Members, today's parliamentary control will continue until 2:15, as there have been declarations from the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I am partly satisfied with your response, which is clear and clear that violations related to environmental protection have actually been allowed. I am not pleased that there is somehow no strict control over the activity of this mining company, provided that there are more violations that you have pointed out. I therefore also call on you to make it clear to people that there is a country and to monitor what is necessary in order to comply with environmental protection obligations, to strengthen this control and to have particular attention and focus on how the relevant waste storage facility will be closed down, because you say that even the dew facilities are currently being dismantled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, the Ministry's undisputed priority is strict compliance with environmental legislation and strict control. Under the powers of the Regional Inspection, as has become clear from my exhibition, sanctions have been imposed for detected infringements. As regards the last detected infringement, namely the dusting of the atmospheric air found by RIEW Follow-up checks were carried out on 15 and 16 February and the electrical power supply was found to have been restored and the irrigation facilities were installed and operated. I would like to assure both you and all Members of the National Assembly that, in order to prevent pollution of environmental and water components, the Regional Inspection in Montana will continue to carry out strict ex post controls on the implementation of the measures declared by the company and the obligations arising from environmental legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A hole? You will not use the right to a line. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MP Vasil Antonov about the existence of a potential flood risk due to the poor condition of the dams in Pleven district. Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u193	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, it is clear from the published public results of a verification carried out by the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office in compliance with the provisions of the Water Act and the Law on the Protection of Disasters and Accidents and the Implementation of Your Powers that 90% of the potentially dangerous dams and pose a risk to people. Repetitional problems and weaknesses have been identified, are not carried out in a timely manner or no technical maintenance and repair of hydrotechnical equipment is carried out at all. Much of the dams continue to be partially malfunctioning. The verification at the end of 2015 found that 90% of the sites included in it as potentially dangerous overlap with those from the autumn of the same inspection since 2014. This concludes that the prescriptions for the removal of infringements have not been met. At this time are 78 dams, and for 47 of the reservoirs, which are in the area of the Swimming Directorate of Dunavski with the center of Pleven, there is no measuring and control equipment. All this can create the prerequisites for floods and human tragedies that we have witnessed. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures are you taking with regard to the work carried out by the Basin Directorate of Pleven with the aim of preventing the risk of flooding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u194	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, I will answer the specific questions you asked regarding the situation in the Pleven region, but first of all I would like to clarify that in relation to the first part of your exhibition, more than once in this parliamentary tribune, information was given on all the measures and actions taken by the government. Not only that, once again, I would like to make the following important clarification. "Potentially dangerous dam" is a dam which, with its location regardless of its technical condition, could pose a danger to the localities, motorways class 1, railways or important business sites where it is located. Dams, once again defined as potentially dangerous, do not mean that they are technically defective but means that they are subject to system checks and controls as they are carried out. According to these criteria, 42 dams are defined in Pleven district. Every year, as you know, interagency committees, which are appointed by regional governors, carry out spring and autumn inspections of designated potentially dangerous dams. Following the checks carried out in 2014, seven of the dams in Pleven district were found to be in a condition which required their temporary decommissioning. According to information from the "Irrigation systems".EAD, the same seven dams "Slavyanovo-4" dam, "Busht-4" dam, or also known as "Karabash" dam, "Nikolaevo-1" dam, "Nikolaevo-2" dam, "Nikolaevo-3" dam, "Dolni Dubnik-1" dam and "Totlebenov val" dam are temporarily removed from operation in 2015, according to a decision of the Council of Ministers, which empowers. With the amendments adopted and additions to the Water Act, the control of the implementation of the measures, which should take the owners of dams to maintain them in a proper technical condition, are entrusted to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. The Agency's powers have been in force since 1 January 2016. According to its competences, the Ministry of Environment and Water through the pool directorates and regional environmental inspections and waters carry out enhanced control of the conduction of river beds and compliance with the guidelines for maintaining safe levels of dams. Once again, I would like to stress that the priority of the government is to establish a lasting and sustainable policy on prevention and prevention of floods in order to protect people's lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u196	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Vassil Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for the theoretical support and lecture you gave us. I want to tell you that the answer you gave is not satisfactory. Firstly, the figures that you mentioned have a specific difference, and it does not differ from my question, but from the conclusions of the Administrative Prosecutor's Office, according to which the figures of forty-seven of the dams lack measuring instruments and therefore have problems with them. It is good that the issue is being monitored, but I can confirm that the risks, especially in this period, are very high. Let us not forget that we have had similar problems recently in Miziya. The damage from the floods has not been overcome yet, there are still people living on the wagons, and the condition in the Swimming Directorate and the underground dams is not good. I'm telling you this completely responsible and with pain, because people's anxiety is real, especially in view of what happens spring. Another figure I would like to mention to you in relation to the Swimming Directorate of Pleven, the prosecution's finding is that 60% of all the gaps it has with regard to dams and dams are in the area of the Swimming Directorate, especially the dams in our area. That's where this is happening from all over the country 60% of the gaps, the findings are right there. I very much count on your work to be in this direction and your control activities, and also investments to overcome these major problems that we have. In this direction, of course, you will be supported by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u198	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. A hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u199	Thank you for your support. Undoubtedly, our concern and priority is to ensure prevention. You know that we are working hard with all departments that have a bearing on the issue of ensuring the protection of the population and ensuring all preventive measures. It is undoubtedly necessary to take into account the efforts made in this direction, both the government's actions with regard to the strengthening of control and the amendment of the Water Act, with which a single national authority was designated, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, which is already exercising its powers and controlling the technical condition of hydrotechnical facilities. As far as funding is concerned, you certainly know that these are actions that are once again an important priority. The funds available in the Interdepartmental Commission on Disasters and Accidents shall be targeted primarily at measures that ensure prevention. Not just that. In the new Operational Programme, a special new priority axis is laid down for the provision of funds for the taking of prevention measures in relation to the risk of flooding and landslides. One hundred and sixty million leva are set aside for this. The potential beneficiaries are the municipalities, the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection and the Road Infrastructure Agency, from the point of view of the risk of landslides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u200	The next question to the Minister of Environment and Waters Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the realization of two projects in the municipality of Sandanski. An application has been made asking for them to be postponed in accordance with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to the next and last question for today in parliamentary control. He is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the establishment of a sanitary zone around the dam. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u201	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 22 December 2015, as far as I am aware, your order was issued regarding the establishment of a sanitary zone around the dam Dear Minister, you know that the establishment of this sanitary zone is part of the solution of a larger issue, namely the provision of quality drinking water for the residents of Shumen municipality. In addition to the establishment of this area, it is known that there is still a need for factual action, such as the renewal of the extractor and the construction of a drinking water treatment plant to ensure normal quality water supply to consumers in this municipality. In connection with the issue of this order, which I subsequently understood was appealed by one of the municipalities in Shumen District, you will say whether this is the case, please answer me the following question: what is the source of the financial resources for the implementation of the provision of the order, what is the amount of these funds and whose commitment is the construction of the necessary infrastructure in the surrounding settlements to prevent water pollution? Because there's a lot of arguments in this direction. We know that this breeds and additional problems with those who use the dam for other purposes, ultimately to find out what the balance is and whose responsibility is to build this sanitary zone. I hope your answer will be sufficiently comprehensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u202	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in answer to your question, I provide you with the following information. Under the Water Act, water operators are required to take all necessary measures to ensure safe and clean drinking water to consumers. The costs incurred by operators are subject to reimbursement under the Law on the regulation of water supply and sewerage services and regulations. This means that the water company can include the costs in its business plan. In fulfilling the requirements of Decree No 3 of the Ministry of Environment and Waters, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Health, the operator, in this case the Water and Health Agency, has commissioned the preparation of a draft sanitary zone, which he has proposed to the Minister of Environment and Water for the establishment of a sanitary zone around the dam. The project of the sanitary and security zone of the dam "Ticha", applied to the application of the Water Shumen, also contains the recapitulation of the quantitative accounts for the activities of the sanitary and security zones. In the draft sanitary zone, it is explicitly stated that during the first stage event for Belt 2 for the removal of impurities, necessary research and research work should be carried out in order to determine the necessity and scope of activities carried out in Belt 3 in the second and third stages, i.e. the effect of the measures applied with stage one and, only then, if at all necessary, proceed to stage two and stage three, respectively. In this case, the Minister for Environment and Water does not determine the source of funding and responsibilities for the construction of the necessary infrastructure. In so far as legislation lays down the competences of authorities and debtors, they shall also be so with regard to the implementation of the measures laid down in the order for the designation of the sanitary zone. According to the Ordinance on sanitary zones, the water protection company is the competent body for the operation of the sanitary zone, including the construction and maintenance of the marking, the building, the landscaping, the healing, the strengthening and others in order to protect the water from pollution, as well as the protection of the sanitary zone and the necessary monitoring. Undoubtedly the most important of all is the absorption of clean drinking water for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u204	Thank you, Madam Secretary. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u205	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, it is by law that the order you described for the establishment of a sanitary security zone must be carried out in this way. However, it has not become clear to me or to the citizens, and also from the information we receive from the water company whether these costs will be reimbursed. Obviously, perhaps a question should also be addressed to the Minister of Regional Development, under whose hat is the water company, whether these costs will be reimbursed, because the problem of water purity is extremely serious, especially in the territory of the Shumen region and, as I said, this is the first step to build this sanitary zone, of course, with the necessary means. We never understood the volume of funds needed. Indeed, I expected there to be some normal correspondence and communication between the two ministries that are responsible for being able to determine exactly what is needed. I expect from you in the future also to be demanding about what is happening there, as we expect, of course, such were the assurances that we received from you in earlier issues from the Minister of Regional Development, that it will be financed under the operational programmes a drinking water treatment plant. However, this, the first step, must not be left aside. Indeed, I will be extremely demanding in terms of understanding whose responsibilities are for building, and in the details that you mentioned, namely the preparation of the business plan, the provision of its financing and then the carrying out of the necessary activities that need to be carried out on the construction of this sanitary zone. Moreover, there have been disputes from people who use the dam in one way or another, on the basis of this order, I am talking about fishermen and others who use it for camping, who are forbidden to enter there. Moreover, you know that there are drains of villages entering the dam and it is also not clear what will happen there and how this problem will be removed. It is very important, so I ask the question, to understand all the people in this electoral region what are the opportunities only to get quality drinking water soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u206	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u207	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I share your concern and, as you mentioned, this is the first step. Follow-up steps are also needed, and they are very important for the construction of a drinking water treatment facility. The Ministry of Environment and Water in its role as funding body supports the efforts of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works through the water and water companies responsible for ensuring adequate systems for the supply of quality drinking water to the population to invest in this. As far as legislation is concerned, the water service operator has the right to include in its business plan the costs of securing the measures provided for in the project for the establishment of the sanitary zone. Also to be recovered, to be recognised these so-called "accredited costs' by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Not only that, we support the efforts to build the necessary infrastructure through the Operational Programme. You know that actions have already begun to develop regional pre-investment surveys for regions within the territory of the country, consolidated regions. When these analyses are drawn up, we are fully prepared to finance the activities that are set out in the projects. I believe that the need for the construction of the drinking water treatment plant is clear to everyone and, in this sense, we are ready to develop a project to finance the construction of such a facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-11.u208	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was the last answer to a question from today's parliamentary control. I announce the next regular meeting of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 16 March 2016, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
