ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We start with messages: On the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly received a letter from the importers Svetlin Tanchev and Georgi Kovachev, who withdrew the bill for amendment of the Renewable Energy Act on 31 May 2016, No 654-01-74. Yesterday, on 29 June 2016, it was received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a common draft bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents adopted on the first vote on 22 June 2016. The draft was prepared by the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the written proposal for a second vote. Yesterday, on 29 June 2016, it was received and distributed to the MPs a common draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria adopted on the first vote on 15 June 2016. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest that we include as an item on the agenda Release of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. My proposal concerns yesterday's result of a vote and the election of the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition. I suggest that this point be after today's two points, which we have fixed as first and second, actually in our program to be number eight. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote. Vote 134 MPs: 130, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving to point five of our program: THE LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE LEGISLATION TO THE SEVERNOATLANTIC AGREEMENT ON THE ACCOMMODATION OF BLACK GORE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. In connection with this point, I am pleased to inform you that the President of the Skupestina of the Republic of Montenegro Darko Pajovic and the Chairman of the Friendship Group of the Republic of Montenegro with Bulgaria Tarzan Milosevic are on the balcony. Please welcome them. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce you to the President and the People's Representative Jemma Grozdanova. You have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u2	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe On the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, No 602-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. At a meeting held on 22 June 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed on 19 May 2016 in Brussels. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Valentin Porazov. On 2 December 2015, a decision was taken at a North Atlantic Council meeting to invite Montenegro and finalise the Alliance membership negotiations. This action confirmed NATO's open-door policy, as outlined at the Wales Summit. The Republic of Bulgaria actively contributed to Montenegro's decision to include Montenegro in the enhanced partnership dialogue with NATO as early as 2008, and later to the provision of a NATO Action Plan. Bilaterally, in 2014, Bulgaria reaffirmed its support for Montenegro's Euro-Atlantic integration, including speeding up an invitation to Montenegro to join NATO. Invitation to Montenegro is a confirmation of the consistent policy conducted by the Republic of Bulgaria and is a significant step forward towards the establishment of lasting security and prosperity in the region. With the entry into force of this Protocol, the Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation will invite the Government of Montenegro to join the Alliance. In accordance with art. 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, Montenegro will become a party to the Treaty from the date of deposit of its accession document. This Protocol shall enter into force after each of the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty has notified the United States Government of its adoption. By declaration of 17 December 2015, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria declared support for Montenegro in the negotiation process until the accession protocol was signed and expressed its readiness to complete the ratification procedure of the Protocol of Accession of Montenegro as soon as possible. The Protocol is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016, should be ratified by Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. With the report of the Defence Committee, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Valentin Radev, Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable colleagues, Mr. Pajovic, Chairman of the Montenegrin Skupestina! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, No 602-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. At a meeting held on 23 June 2016, the Defence Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, No 602-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. The meeting was attended by 12 MPs. The Bill proposes the National Assembly to ratify the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty on the grounds of Article 3. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, given the fact that the Protocol constitutes an addition to the North Atlantic Treaty. The same was signed on 19 May 2016 in Brussels. The reason of the importer is pointed out that Bulgaria, as a member of NATO, has repeatedly declared its principled and unconditional support for the Alliance's open door policy. This support is a guarantee for the strengthening of peace, lasting security and prosperity in the region, and the invitation to Montenegro is an undisputed success for the policy conducted by the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by Deputy Minister Valentin Porazov, who highlighted the importance of Montenegro's accession to the collective security and defence system as a factor for strengthening security and stability in the Western Balkans region. A statement on the draft was presented by the Chairman of the Defence Committee, who supported the draft and drew attention to the impact Montenegro's accession to NATO with regard to Macedonia and other countries in the region. The MPs said that the Bulgarian state has always supported Montenegro on the path of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country, actively worked with its state and political leadership and provided the necessary assistance under bilateral military technical co-operation. In this sense, it can be expected that Montenegro will contribute to greater stability in the Western Balkans region with its full membership. After the discussion, a vote was held involving 12 MPs. By 12 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by law to ratify the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed on 19 May 2016 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Radev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, guests from Montenegro, Honourable Hawks........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[It points to the seats of the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u7	Please, a little pό respectable to the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u8	Of course, but they're saying they are. I don't think I'm insulting them. That's not the point. Honourable Members, as you can imagine, the Ataka Party will not support this point. Why? Because even in Bulgaria, even in Montenegro, the following slogan can be heard: "NATO" terrorists, fascists! That's what I hear, yeah. Isn't that right? Okay. NATO is such an organization that existed during the Cold War in opposition to the Warsaw Treaty organization. The Warsaw Treaty organization is gone, but NATO has it. [[Reply: and there will be it!]] Whoever remembers who read history knows perfectly well the deal then, which was between the US and the Soviet countries when the Soviet Union fell apart, that NATO would not expand, that NATO would not take over new territories. Of course, this arrangement has not been met. [[Relations from the right block.]] Keep it civil, please, and don't yell out loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u9	Please don't call from the hall, but you from the stands, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u10	Of course, this arrangement wasn't followed. Over the years, NATO has expanded, expanded and taken over new territories. At this point, what do we get? Montenegro chooses, as they say here, another cliché, the Euro-Atlantic focus, Euro-Atlantic values. You forgot the Orthodox values at the expense of the Euro-Atlantic. During the past months in Montenegro there has been a great public excitement, there have been rallies on the streets every day, there have been organized protests in all forms. Of course, the Bulgarian media didn't reflect any of this because it is forbidden to speak against NATO, right?! From this tribune, when I speak against NATO, I see the Hawks who are in the Chamber, how resentful they are, but the truth must be told. What's the truth? That this is an offensive organization that is preparing for war. But back to what happened in Montenegro. A number of opposition parties have gathered more than the necessary signatures to hold a referendum, to ask the Montenegrin people: should Montenegro enter NATO or not? Naturally, such a referendum was not held there. Why? Because they know very well what the Montenegrin people think "they don't want to be a NATO member." [[Reply from GERB: How do you know it?.]] They weren't asked again. Now here we will ratify Montenegro to enter NATO. I know that many of you will vote and that will surely be accepted. But you should also hear this voice that there are a lot of people in Bulgaria, in the Balkans, all over Europe who are against this organization. Here in the last few days there has been talk about brexit, about how Britain has emerged from the European Union. From the very creation of the attack, we say: "NATO Out! " and, believe me, this voice will continue to be heard and these voices will become more and more.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u12	Mr. Chairman, ministers, distinguished guests from Montenegro, honourable colleagues! At the very beginning of my speech, to give my warmest congratulations to Montenegrin guests and to say that I have always supported the independence and territorial integrity of Montenegro as a diplomat from the Republic of Bulgaria in the Balkans, especially during the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, which was entirely the fault of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. This does not prevent me from saying from this high tribune that the decision, which we are about to make, I am sure, by a large majority, as Mr. Chukolov said, is contrary to the moods of the Montenegrin people. During the poll at the end of last year 47% of the Montenegrin public said they were for the NATO membership, 40% are against the NATO membership, while 13% are uncertain, according to recent polls, the people who are against Montenegro's NATO membership are majority. That is, with our act, which we will adopt shortly, we will deepen the division in Montenegrin society. It was very well mentioned before me that at the end of last year there was a real political crisis when thousands of demonstrators protested this decision by the Montenegrin government and the Montenegrin government, which refused to hold a national referendum on Montenegro's NATO membership. Apropo, such a referendum was not held in Bulgaria, but let's not talk about the conditions in our country. At the beginning of this year, in January 2016, the ruling Montenegrin coalition split precisely because of this fact that the Montenegrin government refused to hold such a referendum, apparently fearing the results that will be obtained. Since we believe that democratic societies should make the big decisions for the development of their nations and countries through national consultation, why not wait for a consultation of the public opinion in Montenegro and then take our decision as North Atlantic Pact members? And when I talk about Montenegro's membership in NATO, and probably also in the European Union, let me say something quite heretic, with an apology to the Montenegrin guests, that what will happen today in the Bulgarian Parliament and what will happen in Warsaw at the NATO summit will essentially be a legitimization of a regime in Montenegro that has been in power for 27 years. It is about the regime of the esteemed Mr. Milo Djukanovic, the same Milo Djukanovic, who, under Slobodan Milosevic's rule, held twice the highest position first in the former Yugoslavia and then in the abridged Serbian Montenegrin Federation. And if Mr. Milo Djukanovic did not end up on the stand at The Hague, as did Slobodan Milosevic, and as this did not happen to Croatia's late president Franjo Tudjman, because he died, Milo Djukanovic, Montenegro's President, this did not happen because Mr. Djukanovic was held in very serious dependence because of his actions as a politician and businessman. I would like to remind you here before you press the green voting button that in 2003, the court in the Italian city of Barry almost failed to bring Milo Djukanovic indicted for trafficking, cigarette smuggling and money laundering. The Italian anti-mafia agency earlier said Montenegro, a small country on the Adriatic Sea, with 600,000. residents, as are the neighborhoods of Lyulin and Mladost in Sofia, so according to this Italian mafia agency, Montenegro can only be compared to the pirate island of Tortuga...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u13	Mr. Enchev, have a little more respect for another country. There are guests from this country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u14	I said, "With all due respect..."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u15	It is not our job to interfere in the internal affairs of our guests. There's a Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u16	With all due respect to our Montenegrin guests, which I have witnessed from the very beginning... [[Loud noise and lines.]] At the end of my speech, I would like to say that with today's vote in the Bulgarian Parliament, we will increase the dividing lines in Europe, we will strike at the collective security system. Let me remind you what happened in the last 45 days to put together a mosaic of events that is quite disturbing. [[Noise and lines.]] Today we decide that Montenegro will become a NATO member. 45 days ago, they were officially installed on the territory of Romania on the anti-missile shield, which has the opportunity to launch ballistic missiles and short and medium range missiles, which is a violation of the Small and Medium Range Rocket Treaty. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u17	It's not a topic of debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u18	It is in the subject of the text of today's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u19	I'll take your word for it. Concentrate on the Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u20	In other words, events have been happening in the last 45 days in the Balkans in Europe that increase geopolitical tensions and divide the continent. Thank you for your attention, fellow Members. I see that you do not want to hear my arguments, but I hope that one day what I say, the Montenegrin public, with its conduct after this vote, will prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u21	Thank you. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I did not intend to take the floor on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, but with respect to the guests from Montenegro, I would like to express a position which I suppose forms the position of the majority in the Bulgarian Parliament. As Bulgaria has accepted its path to be part of a strong and united Europe, to be part of NATO, as well as Montenegro has chosen its path and set its priorities as early as 2012. My respect for the MPs who spoke before me, but we still have to respect the sovereignty of any country that chooses its national priority. Dear colleagues, we need to ratify today, not be concerned with the choice that Montenegro has made. In this regard, I would like to congratulate Montenegro on becoming part of the North Atlantic Pact, and let me remind you that Montenegro has already been involved in peacekeeping missions in Afghanistan and Somalia and have been empathetic to the objectives that NATO has set itself and a strong and united Europe. Let us wish them success in the open chapters on joining the European Union. They will always have the support of the Bulgarian Parliament in their intention to be part of a strong and united Europe and to be part of NATO, because NATO can protect the territorial integrity of any NATO state and can guarantee security and stability in the region. I thank Montenegro for their active role in the southeastern initiatives taking place in Southeast Europe and can always rely on the friendship of Bulgaria, parliament and the Bulgarian government and the presidential institution. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Guests, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote on this Ratification with conviction. My fellow Members, I believe that it is our duty to respect the choice of the people of Montenegro. Through this agreement, we make Europe safer and more stable because the Western Balkans need this. The entire Balkans need this, honourable Members! And this is a question which, in the current situation in Europe, is extremely important. We believe that the choice of the people of Montenegro is right. They will receive our support, as Mr. Tsvetanov said just now, and for their entry into the European Union, because the European Union now needs more stability than more countries to be in it. We believe that this is good not only for the whole of Europe, it is for the good of the world. I use this case by presenting our agreement with respect and desire to support this Ratification, to wish the people of Montenegro success from the heart. I think that Bulgaria-Montenegro relations should experience an ever-increasing development of economic, political, cultural, and together to do what we can for the common stability of the Balkans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Stefan Kenov, then the people representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear Guests, Dear Members! The National Union will support the Ratification for Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Pact. We believe that it is precisely the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union and NATO that will lead to security, peace and stability throughout the region, the entire Balkan Peninsula. To one of the Presidents I will answer that no, we do not replace our Orthodox values, on the contrary we want the creation of a peaceful Balkans, some peoples looking for their prosperity within a calm regional policy. An example of Orthodox values I regret to say this now, but on Tuesday I was in Bosilegrad, Mr. Chukolov. Perhaps I attended the first memorial at which the Serbian Orthodox Church refused to send a priest because it was about Bulgarian officers who were shot on 28 June 1913, and despite the Orthodox values of the Serbian Orthodox Church, they refused to perform a memorial service in respect of Bulgarian officers. One hundred and three years later, Orthodox values are clearly not what they should be. We believe that the Euro-Atlanticism that Bulgaria is confessing is the future of all the nations on the Balkan Peninsula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak the word has the popular representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests from Montenegro! The Patriotic Front Parliamentary Group will support Montenegro's decision to join NATO. We will do it with full consciousness, with respect and respect and adoration to such a responsible decision and with full awareness that in the complex geopolitical situation, especially on the Balkan Peninsula, which has been a very frequent generator of global conflicts, one of the most secure ways to ensure the independence and sovereignty of each country is also involved in a common military organization. Although we express as a political force some skepticism with regard to some NATO decisions, we are aware that NATO is currently a guarantee of national security over all the countries involved in this bloc. On the other hand, returning to history, we express gratitude and worship to the participation of representatives of the great Montenegrin people in the revolutionary struggles of Bulgaria, starting from the Renaissance, revolutionary struggles against Turkish slavery, for the liberation of Thrace and Macedonia later and I believe it is our duty to support your decision because we were brothers in arms and we will be brothers in arms again. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests from Montenegro! I think that with this decision we will make this day much better for Bulgaria, much better for the Balkans and for Montenegro. Why? Because our region will become even more secure because it is a step-by-step realization of our country's priorities to make the Balkans an even safer place, a place where there is more and more trade, more and more good relations, more cultural exchange, more security, both internally and externally, for all countries. The field of consensus in the Balkans, I believe, will expand with this decision and will expand further. I sincerely believe that one day Serbia will follow us both from its internal interests and from the interests and priorities of the region and of the whole of Europe. What does NATO mean? NATO means common values, so more trade and economic exchange, more co-operation in the security sector, so cultural exchange. This is the foundation during which Bulgaria made very deep reforms, stepping on which it managed to make these reforms and managed to become a full member of the European Union as well. I wish the same to our friends from Montenegro. Therefore, the Reformation Block Group will confidently support ratification and we will follow the same policy in the future with regard to all our neighbours and countries in the region. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ismailov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. Please vote. Vote 160 MPs: 154 against 5, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. [[Applause on the right.]] Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u32	Mr President, I ask that the so-called bill of ratification of the first vote be dealt with in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u33	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Jemma Grozdanova for consideration and the second vote on the bill. Vote 155 MPs: 150 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please introduce the MPs to the report in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u34	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro A single member. It ratifies the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Statements? There are no speeches. I hereby put to the vote the Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of Montenegro with its sole member. Please vote. Vote 155 MPs: 149, against 5, abstention 1. The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro has been ratified. [[Applause.]] Let us congratulate our friends from Montenegro and wish them success in their Euro-Atlantic orientation! Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PREVENTATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR REPEATING THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED EMPLOYMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. There is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The report will introduce you to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Legal Affairs on First Voting on a Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. At its meeting on 1 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, Ms. Maria Karabelyova, Head of Cabinet, Ms. Daniela Simeonova and Mr. Yavor Siderov. The draft was presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, who pointed out that it proposes the establishment of a single anti-corruption body, the National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, which combines the Commission's functions and powers to prevent and establish conflicts of interest, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Center for Prevention and Countering Corruption and Organized Crime and the Unit of the Court of Auditors, to which the checks of property declarations are assigned. It is envisaged that the Bureau be headed by a Director and four Deputy Directors elected by the National Assembly. As an important focus in the proposed Law Mrs. Kuneva pointed out the precision and extension of the circle of declared circumstances in a single declaration covering the information on the property status of the persons and data on possible conflict of interest, with detailed arrangements for declaring and verifying them. The bill provides for an extension of the circle of persons obliged to submit property declarations and special rules for verifying the declared property and interests of magistrates. It is proposed the possibility of the production of signals and media publications, and the aim is to strengthen the importance of the signal function of citizens and media. The bill introduces the requirement to verify the integrity of inspectors as a means to ensure the effectiveness of the anti-corruption body and introduce rules aimed at increasing the powers to withdraw illegally acquired property in order to overcome the difficulties so far in implementing the civil confiscation procedure. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs: Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Delchev, Petar Slavov and Yavor Notev. National Representative Dimitar Delchev expressed his support for the Bill and stressed that the adoption of the Law will meet the need of society to combat corruption. Mr. Danail Kirilov and Mr. Dimitar Lazarov expressed their support for the bill and welcomed the amendments to the bill, which are in line with the opinions given to the previous Bill. They pointed out that the need for anti-corruption legislation is indisputable and that the support of the bill is an appropriate anti-corruption measure. Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov assessed the efforts of the importer as positive, but pointed out that the bill should be in line with the opinions of the Bill and expressed the need to refine some texts. In response to the questions raised by Mr. Notev, Mrs. Kuneva pointed out that the bill was drawn up as a result of an analysis of the work so far of the anti-corruption authorities and added that the focus of the signal procedure is on the content of the signal, while the intended preliminary verification of the signals aims to counter any abuse. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov pointed out that the creation of a single body would increase his work and noted that the activity of acceptance, processing and verification of declarations was entrusted to the Court of Auditors since 2006, but this verification is atypical with the functions and design of the Court of Auditors as a body to monitor good governance and to exercise control over public finances. Mr. Plamen Georgiev welcomed the creation of a single body, pointing out that it would facilitate his work. The majority of the MPs united around the need to adopt such anti-corruption law, expressing the need to correct it. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for...... 2 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The report of the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics will introduce us to the President of the Commission Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u38	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics on the First Voting of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its meeting held on 12 May 2016, discussed and discussed the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 602-01-18. The meeting was attended by Ms. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, and Mrs. Maria Karabelyova, Head of the Deputy Prime Minister's Office. The motives of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property were presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva. In short, the main guidelines of the proposals made in the Bill related to the leading priorities for countering corruption and the introduction of civil confiscation were outlined. The link between conflict of interest and property verification is recommended in the report of the European Commission, which gives a positive assessment of the approach and preparation to the adoption of the Law. The adoption of the Law is defined as a key test in the fight against corruption in 2016. Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva urged the MPs to unite and support the bill of first voting. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs: Valentin Nikolov, Atanas Zafirov, Metodi Andreyev, Ivan Ivanov, Kiril Dobrev, Georgi Kovachev, Yanko Yankov and Anna Alexandrova. The discussion raised the following questions: the framework for the establishment of conflict of interest and verification of the declarations for the persons under art. 5 carried out by the National Bureau and for persons under Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions by the Election Authority or by the Inspectorates; the choice and release of the Director and Deputy Director of the Bureau to be with two thirds of the National Assembly or with at least 50 plus 1 of the Members of the National Assembly; the regression responsibility of all in the National Bureau was affected, not only of the inspectors; the revision of the texts relating to the actual separation with regard to the constitutional arrangements of the form of marriage, the terms and procedure for its conclusion and termination; the new version of the Law concerning the anonymous signals, called "non-recall signals'; the hearing by the National Assembly in the context of the requirement of art. 23 for the secret of service; the right of the Constitution to exercise parliamentary control by the National Assembly; the verification under art. 84 in respect of the Director and Deputy Directors of the Bureau to be carried out by the Permanent Committee of the National Assembly responsible for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, by rules adopted by the National Assembly, as laid down in the previous version of this Draft Law; in the case of established evidence of a criminal offence, the proceedings under this Law shall be suspended until the prosecution is pronounced; the continuation of proceedings under this Law, irrespective of the amnesty, the expiry of the statute prescribed, the death of the person and the existence of immunity and the introduction of the reverse burden of proof of innocence by the person examined. It is summarised that, despite all the criticisms made in the previous attempt to adopt this Law, above all, in the part concerning anonymous alerts and the scope of the persons examined, the same approach is again proposed. Everyone united around the need to adopt such a Law, but the same to be reconsidered and refined in order to actually have a serious prevention and countering corruption. The elected authority under the exclusive powers conferred on it by this Law to be operational, effective, impartial and independent. For this reason, the bill was supported by the members of the Commission, representatives of the AG of GERB and the Reformation Bloc, and members of the Patriotic Front, BSP LB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and BDZ-NS abstained in the vote. The AG members of the ABB's AG did not participate in the vote. Following the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission with 4 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the President of the Commission will introduce you to the people's representative Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the prevention of corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 April 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science. The main objective of the Bill is to create a working system for preventing corruption and to ensure that persons holding senior public positions perform their duties fair and square and to protect the interests of society by preventing and limiting the possibilities for illegal acquisition of property and disposal thereof. The bill is based on three law-making laws. The Law on the publicity of property of persons holding senior state and other positions, the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property. A single anti-corruption body is being established.. National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The proposed solutions are based both on the analysis of the existing institutional framework for countering corruption and on the study of foreign experience and recommendations of Bulgarian and foreign organizations working in depth on the problems of fighting corruption. The law governs the principles and mechanisms for preventing the corruption of persons holding senior public positions, the conditions and procedures for declaring, verifying and analysing property status and legal grounds for withdrawing illegally acquired property, the conditions and procedures for establishing conflict of interest, as well as the status and functioning of the National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The circle of persons obliged to submit declarations is extended to those included in the scope of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, and entirely new categories of persons having public functions or powers to spend public funds are added. Among the new categories are the municipal councillors, the chief architects of the municipalities, the rectors of state higher schools, the managers and executive directors of hospital care facilities, which are financed from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, the persons designated to administer and manage EU funds, the persons to whom functions are delegated to organise and conduct public procurement procedures and conclude contracts, the members of the board of state enterprises under the Forests Act and others. In order to provide more complete information on the property status of senior public officials, the circle of circumstances which they are obliged to declare is extended. The rules of declaration have also been changed. In addition to the verification of the declarations, the law also regulates a new procedure for the examination of the entire property situation of the person and the hypotheses in which it can be formed. Special rules for checking magistrates are also laid down. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the need for the adoption of the Bill in principle, stressing that its adoption would create conditions for the establishment of an effective system for prevention of corruption, which would ensure that persons holding senior public positions perform their powers honestly and honestly in compliance with the Constitution and the laws of the country and in the interests of citizens and society. Some of the MPs who spoke expressed their concerns about separate provisions of the Bill, paying attention to the need for their further discussion and clarification in the process of examining and adopting the bill. Attention was also paid to the need to take into account the remarks and proposals expressed in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce you to the Vice-President, Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the prevention of corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. The Committee on Budget and Finance examined the presented Draft with an importer the Council of Ministers, presented by Mrs Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva said that the current bill met those concerns, which were clearly expressed in his previous version. First of all, there have been changes in the form of the body of the National Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, which becomes collective, made up of President and four Vice-Presidents, who have clearly scheduled responsibilities. The other intersection refers to the signals set out in G0hava heel in matter, which is quite strictly regulated. The new legal proposals are scheduled to prevent abuse of rights, circumvention or use for political purposes. What's new is the Civil confiscation institute. As for the so-called counterclaim burden, it exists in the legal systems of Ireland and Britain, and in some countries such as Sweden, for example, there is not even an anti-corruption law. The best effect that the anti-corruption law would have is to prevent corruption, improve the micro-climate for investment and have more confidence in our economy. The importers provided materials concerning the Strategy for Prevention and Countering Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria, on the basis of which the law was drawn up, as well as an analysis of the corruption environment on the basis of which the strategy was formulated. The members of the Committee on Budget and Finance were also acquainted with the opinions of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime. The members of the Budget and Finance Committee united around the idea of an effective and working law that would justify the expectations of society to combat corruption at the high levels of power. The satisfaction was expressed that some of the comments and proposals on the original Bill were discussed and taken into account. During the discussion, the People's Representative Georgi Kovachev of the People's Union expressed his concerns regarding the implementation of the so-called counter burden of proof...................................of signals, polygraph studies, mixing of legal institutions, criminal proceedings in the administrative part. He considers that the Bill should be accompanied by a financial justification for how much state the National Bureau will have, what its maintenance will be, what the impact on the fissure of the merger of the three committees and the unit of the Court of Auditors would be. There is also a lack of comprehensive analysis of the activities of the institutions that will be merged into the single body "National Bureau." In this situation and in the event that the texts are not refined and the ambiguities are not corrected, the People's Union would not support the Bill. National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski said that BSP left Bulgaria will not support the Law in this form. According to him, there is an ambiguity why they were not taken into account when drafting the bill the notes by the authorities themselves, which will make up the National Bureau. Believes that it is unacceptable in the Law to have anonymous alerts, to have a duplication of the powers of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council with those of the National Bureau, as well as a duplication of the activities of property checks carried out by the NRA and those of the National Bureau; As for anonymous signals, he said they would be effective at a later stage of the National Bureau's earning, as soon as it proved its effectiveness. National Representative Rumen Gechev insisted that the Committee on Budget and Finance should be briefed in detail on which countries of the European Union with a continental legal system have introduced the principle of the so-called counterweight of proof. In addition, according to him, there is no comparative analysis, and it was necessary for the institutions working so far, which will be merged into the single body. This, as well as the other observations on the bill, justifies the decision of the parliamentary group which it represents to take a decision on abstention. People's representative Petar Chobanov said that it is not enough to understand that the bill is budgetaryally neutral, as the goal of creating a new body of several existing ones, such as the National Bureau, is to achieve synergies in order to obtain better results in general and in particular with regard to the prevention and punishment of corruption and positive on the fisc. This, as well as other remarks and concerns regarding provisions of the Bill, justified the decision of the DPS parliamentary group at this stage of the vote to decide on abstention. People's representative Vladislav Nikolov from GERB said that attention should be paid to the expectations of society from the effective action of this Law. The adoption of the anti-corruption law would have a positive response not only in Europe but also in Bulgaria. Although there are concerns regarding the overpowering of the single body, the National Bureau, the reconciliation of the judicial and executive functions of the National Bureau, the anonymous signals, the so-called reverse burden of expression, the parliamentary group of GERB, whose representative it is, will support the Law at first reading. Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva expressed the readiness of her team for constructive discussions on all concerns, remarks and recommendations expressed by the MPs both in the Committee on Budget and Finance and in the other Standing Committees, where the Bill was discussed, in order to create an objective and effective anti-corruption law. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 11 votes for the resolution, 2 votes against the resolution, and 5 votes abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. On behalf of the importers, the floor is given by Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for your work in each individual committee, for your opinions and for those of you who took the step and supported the Law at first reading, especially to note their efforts and their determination. However, I think that we have the opportunity to expand this agreement because we have a common problem to solve and I will concentrate my speeches on this discussion of the First Reading Law, that is, to talk about its objectives, to talk about what we expect from it and what is its logical structure that will lead to success. The first thing we need to say is that we have a problem and there were no objections on this issue from the MPs, from almost no parliamentary group, would say, and that this problem should be addressed, measures should be taken to prevent high-level corruption, the verification of conflict of interest, the property happening and occurring in a well-established, predictable legal way. The other topic that we discussed, which is important for our first reading, is the issue of the body. This body must be united, it must be strong and there must be sufficient guarantees that it will not only comply with the Law, which is absolutely necessary, but that it will be accountable to the public, it will be reported to the National Assembly. The creation of a good working single body is indeed at the heart of the effectiveness of this Law. I would like to emphasise in particular one quality of the anti-corruption body, which we all particularly care about and which we are still working on together, and I hope that this is its independence. All the things that you have expressed as questions, such as doubts about whether it will be a political independent body, I really want between first and second reading to make such a working group, which, at the very least, doubt that the body may fail to fulfil this great goal, an independent, professional single body, to address any concern. I want to tell you here and make a commitment to you that there are no prohibited issues between first and second readings. If we all support philosophy together and agree with it, every question, every objection, every attempt to make an even better text through the will of the collective mind, the Law can only win. We want to give through this Law absolutely all guarantees, and it is legal guarantees that the body is independent. Anything that can be improved, we will do it not only by observing the side as part of the executive power, but by actively participating in any discussion, in any shaping of the texts. We need to see what is most working in Bulgaria and how it will be applied again in Bulgaria. Perhaps this working group will need not only to be among the parliamentary groups, but also to attract experts further. For example, constitutional law, I will give an example that arose in the Anti-Corruption Commission, for the election of a director and deputy director of the Bureau by a majority of 2/3. What we discussed is that there is a constitutional text. 81 which gives another reading of when a 2/3 majority is adopted in the composition of one body. I wouldn't mind discussing this with experts-constitutionalists and finding the best solution. Including external experts are welcome. On the issue of civil confiscation and in which countries there is an inverted burden of evidence. I promised to make such a reference the reference is here in front of me [[shows reference]] . First of all, not all countries have anti-corruption law, secondly, not all countries do have civil confiscation and inverted evidence burden. However, these countries, which are 6-7 European countries, have civil confiscation, in 5 of them there is an inverted burden of evidence. I'm done with the background check, anyone who's interested can see it. The National Strategy for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption gives us the great picture of how we will move forward with the application not only of this Law, but also of a whole network of laws that can make the environment in Bulgaria predictable, clean and thus, as some of the speakers said, not only to the European partners to show that we understand the problem and know how to deal with it, but above all, with the Bulgarian citizens. The idea of this legislation, the adoption of anti-corruption legislation, is actually supported and supported by people who voted for all the representatives of parliamentary groups here in plenary. I would also like to draw particular attention to the issue of civilian confiscation in several directions. This is about civil proceedings, not criminal proceedings, where there is an absolute presumption of innocence. In civil proceedings, this presumption is lacking and what is done is not directed at the person, but is directed at his property. A little more about the reverse burden of evidence, it acted in the first law on the forfeiture of property acquired by criminal activity. I would now like to share with you the most important reason why these texts have appeared, but I stress again, this is subject to discussion. In February of this year, you have unanimously supported a bill with the same texts regarding the so-called "reverse burden of demand"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Since there is a collection of the two bodies in the Bill we are proposing, a collection of both laws, a collection of both laws, I have decided that we would go against your will if something you have adopted at first reading, we remove it. But if you want to come back to this question, I will do it with the experts and externally, including colleagues who were part of the working group. So once again, these are the motives. There's nothing we can't say and explain publicly. We are ready to go back and discuss this matter again. On the subject of the so-called anonymous signals....................................................................................................... I am aware that this is one of the most sensitive issues. We have offered guarantees, props, preliminary checks, a decision of the Bureau only if there is sufficient data, an obligation to ignore information and liability of an employee who does not respect it, including disciplinary liability for the dissemination of professional secrecy. I want to assure you that we have heard the fears and fear of abuse. Let's discuss them and offer the best option with all the necessary guarantees. I think one of the MPs from BSP had proposed an option, which was actually proposed by a non-governmental organization - this is the Institute for Market Economics. They had said when the Bureau proved its independence and efficiency by working on the basis of protected signals, then to see if it needed this second step. So this issue is also one of the issues on which I am sure that we will find a solution that does not allow any abuse of any partisan or otherwise appropriate, which will not only at last confirm the independence and effectiveness of the Bureau, but, on the contrary, make it a body that will be accused of such biases. That's not our goal at all. We want an independent body that is very far from any suspicion that it can work under other circumstances, under party or other intervention. So I want to tell you this on the most important issues that you have raised. And to tell you that if, at first reading, we decide that this Law is necessary, that the creation of a single and independent body is what our National Assembly wants, I believe that we will find a solution to absolutely all questions. I declare to you that we are ready to participate, to attract experts, and not just to be observers on the side of what you are trying to achieve during the discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. The first person to sign up is People's Representative Valentin Nikolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva, honourable colleagues! Firstly, I would like to say that with regard to the latest version of the Bill, it differs substantially in one part, namely with regard to the choice of the so-called National Office. The last option was, you know, one director, deputy director, now there are four alternates and one director, that is, becoming a collective body. This is the fundamental change, I would like to stress it. We're looking at the National Bureau's choice of leadership. I'm not sure this is unconstitutional. I've consulted lawyers, as has Mrs. Kuneva. I want to tell you that nowhere in the Constitution in art. 81 There is no explicit ban on the National Assembly from adopting its acts and laws by a majority above what is required, but this is a controversial issue. It will be discussed, as Mrs. Kuneva said, and we will see whether it is lawful or unconstitutional. Because I believe that in order for such a genuine independent body to actually make decisions that are out-of-party, impartial, this body really needs to be selected with a minimum of 50 plus one of the MPs, and why not two-thirds, given the scope of activity of this future Bureau. For your information, if you have read the Law, you know, the range will be 12,000 people, persons holding public office, will be checked by this National Bureau, and five thousand magistrates will be checked by the Inspectorate. So taking that into account, you can see how many powers this body will have. It's by choice. As I said, this National Bureau is entrusted with very large powers. There are texts inside that need to be cleared. For example, I suppose you too do not agree not to take away the right to Constitutional Law, art. 80, that is, to have parliamentary control carried out through Parliament, respectively through the Anti-Corruption Commission, as there is also a Commission for Control of the Services and so on. So it's completely resonant. The authority of choice is the National Assembly, it is normal to carry out the controls as well. At the moment, as set out in the Bill, the Bureau is uncontrollable. There is no one to control it at all as it is written down. We all give an example of Romania. Our Commission was on a visit to Romania last week and we had the opportunity to meet with the National Agency for integrity, the so-called ANI, the notorious Agency, there we also met with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, who, by the way, is second in rank after the Minister. It has been very helpful for us to hear what their legislation is, is there really such a great fight against corruption in Romania, and what are the results? I'll tell you, for example, let's start with ANI, the so-called National Agency. Firstly, colleagues, it is elected by the National Integrity Council, which includes different representatives, including those of civil society. The National Council, accordingly, proposes the members of the Commission's management and the National Council, depending on the independent audit that is being carried out on this Commission, also proposes their release, that is, this Commission is not out of control, while with us, the National Bureau, I repeat, at the moment, if it is adopted in this way, it is out of control. In the ANI Commission, we were given a very serious presentation, personally Secretary General Silvio Popa. That's basically what I told you, but especially now, let's focus on the signals, the so-called unspoken signals. These are anonymous signals, since they're not signed. In addition, compared to the previous text in the previous Law, it also allowed anonymous signals to be considered. At the moment, looking at the props, the requirements of the signal submitted, the law allows the signals to be 100% anonymous. Why? Because the only requirement is to have a date of the signal....not a signature, not a name, not to mention NGN. These are the so-called unsolicited signals. Not to mention that if the signal turns out to be unfounded, none of you and any of the persons holding public office can defend themselves. You know, in the penal code. Art. 147, Art. 148 any person holding a senior government office may defend himself and condemn himself accordingly for targeting the person who issued the alert. That's not the kind of opportunity you're given here. In addition, it is explicitly stated in the Law that the Director and Deputy Directors are not responsible at all. That's completely contradicting. They must bear regressive responsibility, as in Romania. We're going back to Romania. To our questions, Commission Secretary General ANI replied that there Romanian legislation explicitly requires the signal to be signed. Only in the case of serious evidence is the Commission entitled to self-sessure, but is accordingly liable for criminal liability. I want to stress this very well. I will tell you something interesting, I do not know how it will be interpreted, but during our visit on 22 June, the Romanian Parliament voted, that is, in practice, to ban the ANI Commission from conducting investigations and inspections before 2013, when the latest legislative changes on the ANI Commission have been adopted. In other words, the Romanian Parliament, by its vote, banned back-to-back checks. You know that our bill contains such checks ten years ago. I'm not saying anything, I'm just saying it for information. In addition, the Vice-President of the Legal Commission personally told the entire delegation that many of the inspections proved to be unconstitutional. That's what I want to hear, too. Not to mention that we have been categorically told about the reverse burden of proving that this is not admissible under Romanian law. I am sure that the Bulgarian legislation is not, but, in the end, you can see that in our bill this is staked. That is, the person against whom an alert has been issued must prove that he has not acquired his property in an illegal or criminal manner, which is absurd. I will tell you with very short statistics with three sentences to get an idea, however, whether Romania is much further in terms of combating corruption in relation to Bulgaria. The National Integrity Agency is looking at about 300,000 individuals a year. In the election, it's up to $1 million. So far, there have been 11,000 inquiries, of which only 300 have been given to the prosecution. The National Anti-Corruption Directorate was established in 2002. It deals only with major corruption. So we specifically asked and told us that there, for example, bribes under 10,000. EUR and for abuse below 200,000. The National Anti-Corruption Agency is not involved. That's where the ordinary prosecutor's office works. Yes, I also have something very important to say here that this National Anti-Corruption Directorate is headed by the Prosecutor General, who is absolutely independent of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Romania, i.e. an absolutely autonomous directorate. There have been 1258 inspections carried out for these years, of which 352 have been sentenced, including one prime minister, six MPs, four state secretaries and so on, 389 are on probation, 222 with a conditional sentence. This is statistics, this is, briefly speaking, Romanian efficiency and their fight against corruption. Finally, I would like to say, colleagues, not to be very talkative anyway, we, I suppose, and you, we all have the will to fight, or at least try to fight corruption. We had meetings with both our colleagues from the Reformation Block and Mrs. Kuneva. I think they agreed with our serious remarks, because these are only four notes that are essential, I would say. We've got maybe 20 more. Probably between first and second readings, we'll make an offer on them as well. And since we see their will and consent to support our second reading notes, we in the Patriotic Front Group have decided to support this bill so that there are no explicit talk and insinuations that we are hardly opposed to fighting corruption. So with today's vote we will prove our will and determination to really adopt a working law, again I say, effective above all, and the decisions of this desk to really be outparty, to have no doubts between us that there will be a resolution of political accounts and any other accounts. So this is short, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? For the first line, Mr. Ivan Ivanov, for the second national representative Hamid Hamid, I do not see a third at this time. Before you go to your line, Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues, there are quite a number of candidates for speeches. We will strictly comply with the rotation rule of the parliamentary groups with regard to the time available to each of the groups. The next speaker is from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Yordan Tsonev, then Mr. Stefan Kenov, Nayden Zelenogorski from the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Metodi Andreev from GERB, Mr. Kiril Dobrev from BSP LB and Mr. Ivan Ivanov from ABB. After the rotation of the groups there are many other speakers: Mr. Atanas Zamfirov, Mr. Dimitar Delchev, but, again, we will follow the rule of rotation of the groups. First line to Mr. Nikolov, Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, Mr. Nikolov! Thank you for talking so extensively about the Romanian model, because indeed the Romanian model has achieved very good results and it is largely at the heart of the current anti-corruption law proposed by the Council of Ministers. Indeed, we were there by a group of the Anti-Corruption Commission. It seems to me that in most part the things that you said are so, but for some things you have put on dark glasses and you don't really see what was going on there and how developments there can affect the Law that is here. Three are, in my opinion, the important things that you said in your speech, which are key to the work and adoption of the Law. The first thing is anonymous signals. The second thing is the inverted burden of evidence, that is, the presumption of guilt instead of the presumption of innocence, and the third is the dependence of the bureau itself on political influence, that is, how its chairman and vice-presidents are elected, how his work is assessed and who controls it at all. Regarding the first question, the anonymous signals. In Romania, it has become clear to all of us that anonymous signals are being handled and in such a way that an unsigned alert, if the inspector decides that there is sufficient evidence, stands by his name and, when there is such evidence, imports them. If, of course, he has abused, he can accordingly bear disciplinary responsibility. As for the other questions, I see my time is up. I'll probably develop it in a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the second line, Mr. Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Nikolov! I've been taking this line from the beginning to dispel a doubt. You said this Law would concern 12,000 high-level officials. That's not true. In its main part, the Law in the proceedings for the revocation of illegally acquired property will act on any citizen who has acquired any property for which the Law implies that it has been illegally acquired until proven otherwise. It's as if, intentionally in society, it's a law under which property will only be taken from the upper levels of power. That's not true. This concerns absolutely every Bulgarian citizen and will be checked and every hen is purchased in the villages. So I want to distract this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Third line? I won't. Mr. Nikolov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva! Colleague Ivanov, I couldn't figure out what dark glasses you were talking about by confirming after all everything I said. However, I explicitly said that in Romania, their legislation requires the signals to be signed, but when the Commission considers and has hard evidence, this is highlighted to us, not accusations and slanders, then the Commission is self-sustaining, but responds to the Criminal Code. I think that's what I said, guys. And the other colleagues who were in Romania will confirm it eventually. As far as Mr. Hamid is concerned. I was talking about the scope of those who hold senior public positions. They're $12,000. I made a comparison with the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, which deals with about 5,000 magistrates. This was in terms of the very choice why it should be 50 + 1 of the number of MPs in order to have a really independent body, working body, effective and not party, because we are still parties that will offer the candidates. That was my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. The word has the popular representative from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Yordan Tsonev. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support at first reading proposals by the Council of Ministers Draft, despite our very serious disagreements and in separate texts of the Law, and in its scope and in the way of the body being constructed, and in a number of other substantive texts of the Law, as well as in the way that the debate was made in society and in the way that this Law moved towards plenary and in the plenary itself in its first and second versions. Our motive with so many disagreements to support this Law is one and only. Our party and our parliamentary group want through this act to show the will to really deal with a major problem that exists in our country throughout the transition, namely corruption. I would like to outline two rounds of our disagreements with the Law. The first is about the way this topic and this Law was imposed on the National Assembly's agenda in the debate in society. The second is, of course, essentially. There I will speak on the various chapters and on the various aspects on which we have comments, my colleagues who will speak after me. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I admit that you have managed to turn this Law into a litmus for the existence of political will to fight corruption. I don't think that's right. And the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms does not believe that this model is politically correct. Even so, there is not a single ambassador from the European Union who, in meetings with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the parliamentary parties, first not to ask this question: How will you vote under this Law? What forced us to convince our European partners that this Law is the litmus for the existence of a will to fight corruption? Firstly, we all know very well, and you know that a law cannot be in any way even a cornerstone of the fight against corruption, because in Bulgaria the legislation is at a very high European level and in the different rankings of the perception of European norms we are between first and third place. In Bulgaria, there are enough legislative standards that can be used to combat corruption. The main problem that we find, both outside observers and the European Commission, and in peer reviews, is that this legislation does not actually apply. That's the problem. So we do not think that this should have been the case. Because that doesn't lead to consensus. This is a kind of politically incorrect twisting of hands or supporting, or you have no will to fight corruption. The will to fight corruption, again I say, is expressed in many different other permanent activities, such as the adoption of legislation, such as the application of every single law. Even if you will, we have over the years no assessment of every single bill in terms of whether it creates conditions for corruption. If we had such an assessment and we tried not to have such norms in legislation, perhaps it would not have come to such a feeling of excessive corruption, which, frankly speaking, there is no country in the European Union where there is none. I'm not even sure in a lot of countries it's not at a higher level. But that's another topic. However, for this reason, the first version of the Law was not adopted, which is a rather unprecedented act. Given that we are all expressing the will to fight corruption, there have obviously been problems in communication with each other, and in the way this topic has been put into society and, respectively, in parliament. On the second topic, on which we disagree, these are the scope and specific texts of the Law that need to be refined. We of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms thank you for expressing the will to change between first and second reading the contested texts. Believe me, they're large enough and significant enough. I will give just a few examples, as the time of the parliamentary group does not allow detailed analysis, and we will do it between first and second readings, as we have promised. The famous text about anonymous signals in general and in general about signals and their verification and completion by a constructive act. I will read to you first the text in art. 51: A person who has given a signal of corruption to a person holding a senior public office shall not be liable and suffer any other adverse consequences on that basis alone. We absolutely disagree with this text! Only on this basis must suffer consequences if this signal is slander! Because if the Commission finds that an alert issued against a person is incorrect, it is a pure defamation sample. I find nothing democratic in this person to signal who came from where he came from and how he came up with different motivations and not to be responsible for it. What kind of society does that have? Are these the societies we seek? Blame each other and use it as an opportunity for political and any other repression? Yes, I understand your desire for the authority to be independent. However, another text may be suggested here. The signal may not be anonymous, but the person may not be disclosed until the inspection is carried out by the Bureau. But once the check is complete and it is proven to be false, that the signal is false, there is nothing to hide this face! Everyone should know that when he signals against another person, he is responsible for his actions! Responsibility for their actions is not limited to minors and those in one form or another. The collective act with which the verification is completed shall not be subject to appeal. How many standards are there in European countries that are not subject to appeal and in Bulgaria too? [[Reply of MP Dimitar Lazarov.]] It'll be an administrative act if that's the condition. At the very least, it must be able to be appealed to the Commission itself, to be able to say your objections and so on. I mean, there's got to be some form of... Is this organ flawless? Who will control his actions? The scope and period for which the checks are carried out. You say in art. 90 that they are for a term of 10 years. How, as long as it's five years? A tax check is carried out for a period of five years and the National Revenue Agency and other bodies that work in this field keep results, facts and circumstances for five years. And for the next five, on what basis will the inspection be carried out? Someone's lips?! It's also absolutely nonsense. As much as the IRS, that's what this maximum should be, no more than that. Of course, there are still a number of texts that need to be refined, such as the usual extraordinary incomes and expenses for the maintenance of a natural person. What are the usual, what are the extraordinary, how are they defined, why and so on? I'm not gonna stop at specifics anymore. In conclusion, I will only say that we support this Law as the existence of political will to deal with the great ulcer of the Bulgarian society, but we rely on the fact that between first and second reading you will pay attention and will adopt constructively all the proposals ours and our colleagues from the other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. First line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I'm taking a line from you, not that I agree, essentially, with almost all things, with what you said. I take your cue in the manner and sharpness of your speech. Say things in a straight text. Mr. Tsonev, if the Law remains this way at first reading, it is a fundamental rule in world law that always the accusing party proves. We are currently doing the Vishinski system in the Stalin system, which means the accused must prove his innocence. That's absurd in itself. I repeat, this is absurd! This was only done in Stalinova Russia and Hitlerist Germany.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u57	Mr. Atanasov, do you want an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u59	Please extend the time. [[Relations of MP Mihail Mikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u60	Secondly, the body that needs to take care of and monitor this corruption is absolutely out of control. I'm sorry, but this reminds me of the Holy Inquisition at Thomas Torquemada in Spain again, you have to prove yourself innocent. Why do I say those strong words? Because I've suffered from these things. As mayor, I have 198 revisions. It is not bad to check governing bodies, but I ask: which mayor of the ruling party has been checked 198 times? There's no such case! For this reason, if we do not take measures between first and second reading to smooth these things out, we will practically give birth, I repeat you, a classic political bat for dealing with political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line Mr. Georgi Kadiev, third line.. was asked by the national representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u62	Can't you see I'm raising my hand?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u63	Dear Mr. Tsonev, you said two things, sum up briefly. The first is that we will support this Bill at first reading, so that we are not accused of being against corruption. I do not support this bill and I am against corruption, and there is no equality between these two things. If you follow a consistent position, you must stand in this position. The second thing you said is that at every meeting with ambassadors, understand when pressure from ambassadors, ask us about the Corruption Act. I, too, meet and always tell them the same thing - I cannot support a bill which, firstly, creates a political Frankenstein, gathers four dead agencies and makes one alive. How's this gonna work? The BORKOR Agency, which hasn't done anything for the last I don't know how many years of existence, has spent tens of millions of leva, we rather than shut it down and tell these people you suck, we bring them in here? Why? What kind of work have they done right now? Secondly, it introduces the status of anonymous signals. And I'm the victim of this thing. An e-mail from three people in Google. Georgi Kadiev e-mail-what you are, investigation. Why? And when I asked the investigators who gave the signal, they said, "We can't find it because the email is not valid." So what do we do? From now on, any one of us can be subject to such a thing. Are you sure you want to do this? Tomorrow I'm gonna file for you, you're gonna file for me from anonymous e-mails and then we're gonna go explain who's guilty and who isn't. Explain how we fight corruption?! The third thing is that of incompetence. The fourth thing is that of proving the presumption of innocence, which is absurd. All this leads to the fact that we are doing something only to demonstrate the fight against corruption without actually being convinced. And at second reading what will happen is that this Law will be changed so that no one will recognize it from the first reading. What is the point, then, of accepting it at first reading? At the DANS, you have an entire directorate that is to combat high-level corruption. There are three departments of executive power, government, judiciary. Why don't we get these people out, give them more power, load them up? They're experienced. Because they dealt with national security, and isn't corruption national security? She's the greatest national security of all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u64	The weather, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u66	Third line.. People's representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u67	Dear colleague Tsonev, I am taking a reply to your speech because of a very important and important moment, which I was hoping you would affect, at least as an experienced financier. And it is important to absolutely all colleagues in confirmation and to Mr Hamid's words that the range is not only over 12,000 persons, but is practically over 7 million. 200,000. faces. The essential point, which is important to note, honourable Members, is, firstly, the issue of personal responsibility for the act that has been committed. Just tell me, colleague Tsonev, when the perpetrator died, where would his relatives and children be responsible? This isn't even in the foundations of Roman law. You know, I guess what this is about and why I'm taking this line. Because this is perhaps one of the most terrifying texts that we can create, and we must necessarily, between first and second reading, solve this issue, because that means turning 7 million. citizens after the husband, father, mother, brother, sister died, practically guilty. And how will the deceased defend himself is a very separate subject. Thank you, I hope you understand and accept my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I would just like to announce that the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front has 58 seconds left. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank my fellow Members who have given me lines because they have actually outlined and expanded the range of problems that there are in this Law and which need to be changed. I absolutely agree with colleague Atanasov and colleague Bajraktarov. I did not dwell on separate texts because there is simply no time, and my colleagues who will speak after me will speak on these different problematic aspects of the Law. Moreover, I would say that the way the Law is drawn up, the powers, the scope and so on really create conditions for repression. Colleague Atanasov, there's another mayor, we know at least one other mayor who's had over 200 checks. This is the mayor of Kardzhali, Hassan Aziz. I'll tell you something in private, even though it's not customary to speak from this tribune. I had such an inspection carried out in 2001. Both my mother and my father and my two-year-old son were checking. This check lasted nearly a year and it is serious stress for everyone. After all, there's nothing in it, there's only one heavy tribulation for every person. So when we appeal for a careful description of the technology, scope and so on of the checks, we mean this and this gives some anonymous signal, starts checking, it lasts a year and then it pays, right? No, you can't do that! Anyone who does this thing needs to know they're gonna be held responsible. In addition, the authority itself must know that the verification must be carried out according to the signal specifics and not in general; by signal parameters, not in general and so on and so forth. These are things that we must certainly specify between first and second readings, because otherwise we will make the Law an opportunity for political repression. We do not live on these latitudes where democracy has a 500-year history. We live here in Bulgaria, and we know how the laws are applied! Unfortunately, we don't have that tradition. Therefore, we must be extremely careful in clarifying each text! To answer Mr. Kadyev's line. Our parliamentary group and our party have never voted under pressure and will not vote. We have taken this decision to give a clear signal to the Bulgarian society, to our voters, to the plenary that we will participate constructively and as opposition, and when we have been ruling, in the measures that we need to take. "Constructional" means, when necessary, critically and with concrete proposals on the texts on which we do not agree. You'll see we'll do this between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. To speak, the people's representative from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union, Mr. Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The group of the Bulgarian National Union did not support the first version of the Law, but ultimately the party Bulgarian Democratic Center made in my opinion a very fruitful meeting with representatives of the Reformation bloc, representatives of the Council of Ministers, with your experts, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and we made our political decision. The concerns that any administrative authority can be used for political repression will never be eliminated. This does not depend on whether the body is individual or collective, how is it chosen, what are its powers, but on the mind of the government or the representing authority that has decided to deal with the opposition, and why not with the government?! There is a real danger that every single body in the country is in danger from the executive authority or from the prosecution, unholy to do an investigation, to hold accounts and to make the lives of every citizen difficult. Yes, the circle is really 7,5 million Bulgarian citizens. Today, however, we have another task. The National Assembly has a draft Anti-Corruption Bill in front of it. Will the concerns of some come true that three failing authorities will also make a fourth inoperative, or why not, God forbid, the Commission for the withdrawal of property to inspire the same desire for work to the other authorities and to be a really working body? I don't think we need to go into details. The principle position of the BDZ party is that we will support the anti-corruption law in Bulgaria. We're gonna do this because it needs that kind of law. At this working meeting we said many of the shortcomings of the proposed text. Some were mentioned here. I'm not gonna do it again. If I'm untruthful now, from every two texts of one, I can find some remark that I disagree with both as a politician and as a lawyer. If we are looking for every comma in this Law, and there are quite a lot of wrong put in it, there are a lot of things that contradict other regulations, so we are committed to joining the working group and improving the text so that we do not end up with the situation Forty-third National Assembly twice to reject the Law on Combating Corruption on the Higher Floors. Like I said, I won't go into details. Yes, there are problems with some of the principles in the Bill. There are problems in some of the texts. We don't think he's perfect. We have proposed to your colleagues the Law to pass through the Judicial Reform Council of the Ministry of Justice, but obviously that will not be possible. I do not see the President of the Legal Commission now, but we hope for a maximum period of work between first and second readings.. calm time for the work of the group of experts, law professors to enter this Commission. After the meeting of the Law Committee at second reading to really enter a report with a much more perfect bill, with much cleaner principles. Believe that we will support text by text all reasonable proposals made by all sides of the Chamber, whether they are from BSP, DPS, GERB or some of the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Ivan Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from DPS, BSP LB and MP Nayden Zelenogorski.]] We're taking turns in the parliamentary groups, please! Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. [[Noise and lines from DPS and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u74	Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! I will continue my line from Mr. Nikolov's statement. I would like to say that the Bill will be supported by our parliamentary group, because it is really fundamental to the fight against corruption, which we know in Bulgaria has reached such dimensions that we do not need to give evidence if we are doing well, if we are not doing well. The point is that indeed in this direction the bill gives very good ideas. As I said, three are the key issues the task force is likely to address. Anonymous signals, in most other countries, they work. It's all about the professionalism of the inspectors themselves. If they are responsible and do not abuse, anonymous signals will do their job. There are cases in which you can manipulate a person to sign your signal on your behalf, and the signal is manipulated and to work on it again. It's really a matter of professionalism. If inspectors abuse, they must bear their disciplinary responsibility accordingly. As far as the burden is concerned, yes, if this is really anti-constitutional, the so-called 'presumption of innocence' must not be worked, but it is an extraordinary legislation anyway, and we must comply with this fact. Now the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property works, and it works not badly. As for the dependence of the Bureau itself, the risk, if it is an entirely independent body and is controlled by the National Assembly, is really to have political abuse. However, if there is no control by any authority, in Romania it is called the National Integrity Council and includes various representatives of the institutions, it can actually go to self-government. I hope that there will be amendments between first and second readings so that consensus can be reached and that the Law will give structures that will work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speaker is Mr. Kiril Dobrev from BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u77	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva, honourable colleagues! Once again, you are importing the Anti-Corruption Law Project. It generates a lot of expectations and a lot of hope. The European Commission expects Bulgaria, Bulgarian politicians to give an adequate response to the findings on corruption in Bulgaria. Business expects a better environment and reduces the corruption burden. The state expects effective anti-corruption mechanisms and rules. However, the biggest expectations, Mrs. Kuneva, are the Bulgarian people to put an end to the political and administrative racketeering, to the robbery of public funds in public procurement, to the purchase of votes and to power. However, there will remain only one expectation, because your bill is controversial both politically and professionally. By listening to the speeches in this House, I want to reassure you that this Bill will pass because that is the price to save the government, that is the price to save the coalition! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Excuse me, but BSP has no intention of paying your bills. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] Actually, we've gotten used to it. When GERB and the government do not know what to do, they simply write a new law, and when they do not want to solve the problem, they create a new body. You, Mrs. Kuneva, have compiled three relatively new laws, which I suppose you have once supported over the years, not to say that you have even defended them in Brussels. Laws that we don't even have an expertise on if they worked! Instead, we are bringing together a mechanical BORKOR, a conflict of interest, the Commission for the confiscation of acquired property and part of the Court of Auditors. And we're making a big Bureau like the Bulgarian FBI. It is clear to all lawyers and familiar on the subject that 85% of the texts are repeated in the new Bill because they already exist in Bulgarian legislation. What's new, of course, is the lie detector that you're gonna use to check employees. To put it mildly, humiliating. In fact, would you try it with yourself first? [[Applause and laughter by BSP LB.]] I understand, when creating such bodies, it all starts with very good intentions. This body should be independent, but it is practically elected by politicians. Not to have the upper hand, but in our reality we all know that this is absurd to achieve. Allow me to remind you of a very famous notebook, the book Zlatanov. I also hope that Mr. Zelenogorski, who will speak after me, will remind you of that. This Commission has been used, honourable Members, you all know, as a political bat. Quoting from the notebook: to hit, to smash, to wait, to correct, to all expressions characteristic of this style of management! What are the guarantees that with the new Bureau or the new Commission this will not happen again? To tell you the truth, when I read the Project, none. With the new bill, you even go further....we return Vishinski's time! Was it like this: Anonymous and guilty until proven guilty? To tell you the truth, I don't understand how you combine this gentle European soul you carry with the Stalinian methods and techniques you offer?! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Let me remind you, here, from this tribune under the section "Corruption" we witnessed a repression against Bulgarian politicians, of sentences against Bulgarian doctors. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, it is clear to us that corruption is rampant where people live poor, where there are deep social inequalities! There are many poor and very rich. Corruption can only be limited if society becomes richer and fairer. That's why I don't believe you. Because this government has not proposed a single measure of society, that these people live better. With this bill, you show that you are not seeking to fight corruption, but once again you just want us to like Brussels. The old love doesn't get rusty. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u79	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dobrev! I want to tell you that I am not a communist and I will never be, and I congratulate you that you are not a communist either. It just depends on their way of thinking. I believe that this bill is extremely anti-democratic and is an attack on democracy in the country, fellow Members. From this point of view, it creates a prerequisite for every Bulgarian citizen to create conditions for an attack on democracy. We have to stop this process. We have a responsibility in terms of democracy in the country, with regard to this process, which has been going on for 25 years and cannot, by one law, wipe out everything that has been achieved so far. This is serious, perhaps the most serious challenge in terms of the preservation of parliamentaryism, in terms of preserving the foundations of the democratic development of Bulgarian society. I call on you, Mrs. Kuneva, to really realise the great abuse and betrayal in terms of democracy that is being carried out with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u80	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u81	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! First, to congratulate BSP's young hope for the expressively read but written declaration. For one piece, we'd believe he really understood things. [[Radio, noise and shouts by BSP LB: "Woo!".]] He has some practical knowledge of the subject. I see you've finally learned the theory of corruption, congratulations on that. It is extremely ridiculous that the party, which has failed Bulgaria four times in the last 25 years, will tell us anything about corruption. It's pretty clear to everyone who's who for what, why he's fighting for it. After the failure Oresharski did not really honor you to say such things. [[Noise and shout from BSP LB. Applause by RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u82	Third line? I won't. Mr. Dobrev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, to tell you the truth, in 1989 I was 18 years old. Even Metodi Andreev amnesty me, I mean, I'm not on his lists. From there on, my fellow Member, life has developed so that I am a product of transition, of what you have created, the Democrats, because you have ruled most of these years. I'm not ashamed of who I am. I'm just sad: why do you want to do a commercial on my back? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u84	Thank you. To speak, the people representative Metodi Andreyev. Here you go, Mr. Andreev. [[Radio, noise and shouting by BSP LB: Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u85	Why are you getting so excited? [[Noise and lines.]] Look, as far as I can tell, the male part gets excited. Why is there such a thing... In BSP something... [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u86	Mr. Andreev, get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, this Law is a great challenge not only for this, but for any Bulgarian parliament. Many things have been said by colleagues who generally exist as fears and doubts in Bulgarian society. We must say that such a bill is looked at with particular attention, especially in a country like ours, where we cannot say that we have a genuine democracy in force. Therefore, we must be very careful in these relations, and at the same time do not forget the following fact that corruption is already endangering national security in Bulgaria. That is, we are placed in some border states that we must decide by law. Why do I say that our democracy is not what democracy is in the developed part of the world? Because it takes four things to have democracy. The first thing is to have an independent, objective press. Thanks to the severe corruption practices, thanks to the serious political corruption in Bulgaria for a long time there is no objective, independent press. The second thing is to have free and fair elections. Again, thanks to severe corruption and severe political corruption in Bulgaria for a long time, freedom of elections has been called into question. The third thing is to have a functioning market economy. Again thanks to the heavy lobbying laws, the hard corruption practice and politics Bulgaria does not have a functioning market economy. There's a cartel economy, there's a corporation economy. In fourth place, do we have the rule of law? Everything I've told you so far, if we don't have the rule of law, everything else is a wish. We have no rule of law! It's a fact. The law works for those who have power and finance and capital to buy freedom and inaccessibility. It's a fact! Therefore, when we look at such a bill, we must listen, including the opposition, because otherwise there is a danger that when they become in power, we who have voted on it now should suffer. I do not want them now, nor those who are in power, to be harmed at any time, unless they enter within the framework of this Law. For this reason, I have told you since last time that I am a firm supporter of this legislation, but it must be done in a very careful way. For example, for me it remained unclear why we, who are part of a united Europe, did not like someone closer to us - French, German, Italian - but went to the Irish? That's inexplicable to me. Of course, when I say these things, I say them with the thought that this Law must be passed. Otherwise, it would be a very bad signal, first of all, to our constituents. They don't believe us anyway, and they are constantly linking us to the most corrupt part of the Bulgarian political elite and perhaps for a great reason, so there is nothing else we can do. Even those who are currently saying that they will not support the Law, clenching with your teeth must support it and fight between first and second readings to make it such that you will not then be the victim of political persecution. It is true that in Bulgaria this happens more than once. We see how people who are supposed to be investigated are not being investigated, and vice versa people who for some reason have taken some wrong step are being investigated. Now get to the point. In general, the authorities that have powers to fight corruption in Bulgaria do not enjoy high public trust. It's a fact. In the 2015 report, the Council of Europe's Council of Europe's report on Bulgaria's progress in combating corruption noted: The public trust in the specialized authorities and the criminal justice system remains low and increased the feeling of impunity of the perpetrators of corruption. Absolutely correct and accurate finding. A statement on the lack of coordination between the anti-corruption authorities was made in the European Commission Monitoring Report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism from January 2016. It says: "The institutions created to combat corruption are defined as fragmented, uncoordinated and responding to the demands of the challenge. In this sense, what this Law does to unite three administrative laws and four administrative bodies can be said to be one step in the right direction. The other, very problematic view in the Law, is the interpretation of the opposite burden of proof. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94, para. 2 of the Bill provides for the assumption that any property for which no legal income has been established is illegally acquired until proven otherwise. This new authorisation was recommended by the Commission itself for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property (CONPI) in its Annual Report for 2015. This presumption means the burden of proof to be transferred to the citizens rather than to the administrative authorities. The obligation of investigative or administrative authorities to prove the infringement or the offence is a fundamental principle in administrative and criminal proceedings. It is part of the constitutionally established presumption of innocence. It is unacceptable for this presumption to be reversed and to be taken into account as a citizen's obligation to prove that their income is illegal. This opens the door for administrative arbitrariness and other ways should be sought to establish the illegal origin of the property. Such an exception to the presumption of innocence, but with very strict guarantees of citizens' rights, has been established at the Institute of Advanced Confiscation. According to us, the provision of art. 94, para. 2, in the event of a possible adoption to the National Assembly, it is likely to be cancelled by the Constitutional Court. The recommendation to be reflected between first and second readings is to remove this presumption that any property for which no legal income has been established has been illegally acquired until proven otherwise. It is the state authorities who should prove that one property has been acquired illegally and not for citizens to prove that it has been acquired legally. The other very thin place in the Law, these are anonymous signals. In the Bill remain anonymous signals, which contain sufficient data on corruption behavior. On the one hand, this is one of the serious positives of the Law, I would like to stress it, because long ago the Bulgarian administrative and criminal laws should have adopted in international practice the investigative authorities to consult themselves after obtained sufficient and reliable information, albeit from an anonymous source. The source is conditionally anonymous as the software systems through which the signals are transmitted require or can track the sender. But what is important is that the state authority ensures that this person will not be exposed and will remain anonymous until the trial is over. Whether the body gets quality information from an anonymous source, or if it gets it itself and self-conceives, it doesn't matter. In order to avoid concerns about repression, the Criminal Procedure Code (NPC) provides sufficient guarantees for the rights of defence of the persons involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u88	PPC?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u89	For this reason, I have a recommendation. It can be reflected between first and second readings. I told you that thing when you were in the Commission. In order not to create disunity between the people who were ready to support the Law, then I said to you: "Let us now clarify the issue specifically and precisely with regard to these anonymous signals. Therefore, my recommendation is as follows: anonymous signals should be dealt with as a legal option, but after an analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness, impartiality and objectivity of the Bureau, which can be done after a period of three to five years. By the way, that's exactly what they did in Romania. In fact, this Chief Prosecutor's Office of the National Anti-Corruption Directorate (DNA), started work shortly before 2000 and 2003 was conducted by Fridum House. This examination then gives an assessment, which is the basis for the creation of this body, which currently works in Romania, and on which the Prosecutor General is Ms. Laura Koveshi. We here must try, first, what we will create as an institution, whether it will actually be impartial and objective. That's my offer. It is intermediate and satisfies both the wishes of people who believe that objective signals are positive to whom I belong and people who doubt that they can now be sufficient grounds for objective and impartial investigation. The third thing I would like to point out is the sanctions for conflict of interest and incompatibility. Section 6 of the Bill provides for sanctions from 5 to 10 thousand. lv. for positions for which actions in conflict of interest have been established. That penalty may be sufficient where the conflict of interest has resulted in a similar benefit, but may be low if the benefit of the unlawful act is of significant value, for example 50 times the specified maximum fine of 10 thousand. lv. It is therefore good to adopt the approach of the Romanian Integrity Act and what the Commission is doing there, on which the National Integrity Agency is working, namely the sanction to include compulsory dismissal and a ban on taking up a state post for a period of three years. It is also provided in the Romanian law that if the person is not disciplinaryly released in the event of a conflict of interest, the person responsible for dismissal shall be punished by a monetary fine. It is also possible to consider binding the fine to the value of the benefit above the specified amount. The other thing that is very important to understand is that confiscation of property should be seen as a preventive measure. That's what I want to explain here on a lot of packages. It aims to remove from the legal economy those assets and values that have been obtained illegally and thus contaminate the current economic relations. The owner of such property is not punished in his personal capacity, as the aim is to prevent the use of illegally acquired property, illegal means of committing future crimes. It also eliminates the possibility of multiplying corruption by reducing the threat to society and a normal functioning market economy. In principle, there will be two types of confiscations, a broad confiscation that is the subject of criminal proceedings, and preventive or civil confiscation, which you recommend in your Bill. As far as the persons covered by this Law are concerned, there are usually three parties involved in the corruption schemes. Usually there is a person who receives a bribe, a person who gives a bribe, and in some cases there is a mediator. We see from the structure of the Law, as those in high public positions are defined, that the Law is primarily directed to those who take bribes, because a civil servant, a man who is in an election position on your list, are usually people who receive bribes. Even in the Commission itself, I said that if we are going to fight corruption on the high levels of power, we need to find a way, a mechanism with which between first and second readings are hit and those who can give bribes, and they in Bulgaria are quite many. And many people, including in this National Assembly, rely on such financial assistance, so in this sense the Law must have a serious correction between first and second readings. For example, I told you there that I do not see why, for example, the members of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation do not participate in these public positions. This National Council for Tripartite Cooperation includes trade unions as well as employers' organizations. In this sense, they are involved in some way with their position of political, economic and all other, and influence the decisions of the state authorities, so they must also be incorporated into this Law. The other thing that is very important to me is the way the Director and Deputy Director of the Bureau are chosen. We know that in art. 81, para. 2 of the Constitution is regulated how... [[GERB lines.]] Okay. In a word, because there are actually others who need to speak, in a word I can tell you the following thing, Madam Minister. I will support this Law with conviction at first reading, and I will do what is necessary with my modest contribution between first and second reading and all these things that I have set here as points to become more convincing for people who do not believe in this legislation. I will also make an attempt to insert a polygraph as a form and as part of a integrity check, because such a form of verification is also available in the Polish Bureau for the Prevention of Corruption. And I have to tell you, this isn't something that's scary or disturbing. When a person takes care of his work and executes the Law honestly and honestly, he should not be bothered by a polygraph. Those who have second thoughts, those who have something to hide about what they were doing, they will be worried about polygraphs. I will be one of the hard supporters of this to introduce and use a polygraph and it to be used periodically as it happens in Poland. I had a lot more to say, but I'll let my colleagues get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u90	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. First line - Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, second line - Mr. Nikolov, and third line - Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Andreev, it is good to quote the current legislation in Romania. Other colleagues did it before you did. It is also nice to know the Bulgarian laws in force, not only this Law, which is the subject of consideration now of the first vote. In the Penal Code, no one has canceled, although there are such ideas, unfortunately, the active and passive bribery. This Law regulates not the property directly acquired by crime, so there is a criminal law under the so-called "sustainable crimes." And by the way, confiscation is not tied to the direct acquisition of property in order to have confiscation. It's punishment and it's usually Chapter One. Even the crime of suicide in the Penal Code is not foreseen for confiscation. Not at all, so let's not mix the consequences of embezzlement, possession of property, bribery, fraud, theft and so on with this Law. This law speaks of civil confiscation. By the way, the Act in force now speaks of a civil confiscation of assets illegally acquired. It can be illegally acquired without committing a crime. That's the idea. The idea started there, if someone does one, two, three, four drug crimes, human trafficking and it was found that for 2000 or 3000 levs. The drug or human trafficking is currently identified.. 20 or 30 thousand. BGN, and there's property he can't prove, which is for 500 grand. This is the idea of this Law, so that we do not mix criminal laws with the consequences, with the actions of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u92	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Nikolov, come in for a second line. You have 54 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u93	We'll fit in time, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Andreev, to tell you why they are not borrowed, for example, the French, German law. Well, because in Germany, for example, when an anonymous tip goes off against someone, he's considered a victim. In France, my information is that first, if it is proved that the signal is unfounded: defamation, informance and so on, the person answers to the Law with up to 5 years in prison and up to 45 thousand. euro penalties. It's one of two. You did not touch on another very important issue because Mr. Lazarov spoke about the Penal Code. Well, in the Penal Code, Mr. Lazarov, you know there's a passing statute of limitations, there's amnesty, there's a dead figure, which is why Bajraktarov is talking about, but here the Bureau is starting an inspection and continuing the inspection regardless of these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u94	Thank you. Mr. Genov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Andreev, we were excited because we thought you would carry us out, as happened, a tract about the philosophy of corruption in Bulgaria. You must have studied her well. Let all your suggestions that you consider reasonable be provided by you between first and second readings. We really need to save democracy by saving Bulgaria from corruption, and to Mrs. Kuneva I will tell her about a responsible factor, President of a Commission, I will not speak with names, who once headed for it in the morning, going to work, put an anonymous signal in the mailbox, at lunch, resoling it for verification. Let us thus make the law so that it does not allow such repression against certain people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Genov. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u97	I'll start backwards, first to Mr. Genov. I always thought that this kind of legislation should create unity in every Parliament. For this reason I will perceive what he says as a good wish between first and second readings to be much more convinced that such a Law should have and that it will be made better between first and second readings. As for Mr. Valentin Nikolov's line, I'll say I support him. I said the same thing. There was no point in going this far when there are countries closer to us that we point to as a model for democracy, democratic development and the fight against corruption. After all, we can create our own Bulgarian model. With regard to Mr. Lazarov, he is also right as a serious lawyer. There's something else you don't understand. I understood it when I was in Romania. We are talking about civil confiscation and limitation periods under the Criminal Code for civil confiscation do not apply as civil confiscation is not a punishment. It's prevention. I'll tell you how they do civil confiscation in Romania. There's really no statute of limitations there. The verification shall begin from the day on which a person has taken up the position on which he has been corrupted. This means that if a judge or prosecutor has started in the distant 1995 year 1996 to be part of the judicial system, if a signal is now received for him under this Law, the civil confiscation check begins from the then 1995 year 1996.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Personal explanation, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, I was mentioned in a line that was to another speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u100	Either way, you were mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u101	Dear colleagues and honourable Mr. Andreev, under the current legislation, you can accept the inheritance if you want, and if you wish to, this is usually what happens when the obligations in the inheritance table are much more than what you would get to give up the inheritance. But if you accept the inheritance, you accept it with the liabilities. You can't claim that you only accept assets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u102	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked for the procedure when Mr. Haytov was taken to the stands, but you made a mistake, too. I ask you not to allow the stands of persons who are officially punished by the Commission for conflict of interest and are in clear conflict of interest with a Law governing conflict of interest. And Mr. Haytov, you're making that mistake too. At least invite him to say if there's a conflict of interest. He also gives recommendations. The man has a personal relationship with this Law!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u104	Mr. Hamid, it's a question of interpretation. In this case, each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to speak on this matter. Mr. Haytov, a personal explanation. And please, no names! [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u105	I can't help but mention the name of Mr. Hamid, who we work with in a wonderful way in the Legal Committee, but he's putting me under an obligation to know who's being punished by some organ. Please, the Presidency is not required in any way to monitor every website and everything that is happening on the Internet. From the very beginning, when the debate on this Law began, quite clearly and correctly, the entire Presidency mentioned that we would give the floor in groups, as the relevant requests were made. I beg you very much, Mr Hamid, do not abuse or use terms such as guilt, error and so on. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u106	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Ivanov has the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The ABB Parliamentary Group takes into account as a positive step the revision of the Law and the presentation of a new Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. However, the ABB continues to believe that a single law will not be able to fight corruption at all levels in the country. So far, many practical measures could have been taken under current legislation to combat corruption more effectively, and at all levels, including the higher ones. I'll give an example. The preventive role of the Public Procurement Agency in public procurement could have been practically enhanced because we know that corruption practices are most often generated there. Unfortunately, instead, attention was focused on the adoption of a Law, the positive results of which are too questionable. ABB continues to be convinced that this was not the right approach. Although the reasons of the new Law are much better, there is again no analysis from which it is clear why it provides for one measure or another. And this is mandatory because the Law unites three other laws and four different institutions. At the very least, there should have been an analysis, for example, on what reasons it was necessary to seize the functions of the Court of Auditors, how the Committee on Conflict of Interest worked and what the new Law would improve its work. In addition to that analysis, there is no impact assessment of what is expected to be achieved by one measure or another under the Law. This leads us to have certain concerns, even doubts about the new Law. Unrefined legal concepts can give grounds for arbitrary application of the Law and for making it a means of political, economic quarrel with uncomfortable authorities. Probably because of this, many specialists and representatives of a number of political forces at the beginning spoke with restraint under the Law, and the expert opinions of the institutions and the non-governmental sector, which took place in the National Assembly, are critical. The law continues to treat conflict of interest as a corrupt practice. The new body, which is intended to be created by the Law, reconciles very diverse functions and of a different nature. Should, for example, the same authority investigate the conflict of interest and take away illegally acquired property? Wasn't it precisely because of this that a separate Commission was created to take away the illegally acquired property? Do not the responsibilities of different institutions, such as the National Revenue Agency, and the new body, which is intended to be established? And how will the interinstitutional interaction take place in order not to cause chaos in the institutions? The functions assigned to the new body, including territorial units, will lead to the creation of a huge body that will work too slowly. Seemingly from expert opinions, it raises certain doubts as to how effective it will be and when it will be. The new body will require a huge administrative and expert capacity, which is not clear how it will be ensured. Due to the reasons set out, the ABB Parliamentary Group will not support the Law at the first vote. However, I would like to say that ABB is firmly working to combat corruption at all levels in the country. We express our willingness to participate in working groups under the Law between the first and second votes. We are determined to assist in developing good proposals that will really lead to a good and working law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u108	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman! I remember last year, about that time the previous project was being examined. It is good that my colleague Ivanov, I think, was not in the parliamentary group at the time, now made that statement. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.]] It was my mistake. At that time, the criticisms were in another direction and the current bill satisfied the main criticisms of the bill presented by the ABB Parliamentary Group: a single or collective body, the powers of this single or collective body, the way of the constitution of this body.. whether to be in the Council of Ministers, or to be elected, is now collective, by the National Assembly. In this part, I do not see anything about which the ABB Parliamentary Group will say that the bill is in line with these remarks. With regard to the other observations. What the Court of Auditors is currently doing is a department that checks the compliance of declarations with declared accounts, incomes and cars. Whether this will be in another body is not the work of the Court of Auditors. By the way, because you quoted opinions from another institution, this is exactly the spirit of the Court of Auditors and it has been repeatedly expressed. Secondly, a body is being established that will not confiscate property. Honourable Members, let me be clear that you will bring a suit to the court. The Bulgarian court is the one to rule. There's no body to confiscate property. Let's be clear. As far as conflict of interest is concerned, and now the Commission in force is doing its job in a small group. The currently in place Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property has had territorial units and structures for 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u110	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! My fellow Member, I have been to the ABB Parliamentary Group at the time. I want to tell you that in society there is a strong attitude to adopt a working law that really leads to real results. Not to adopt a law that collects, once again I say, too diverse functions, unites everything within itself and ultimately aims at creating an organ that can become an instrument of political strife with uncomfortable days. Let us adopt a law that really gives a good result, let us not accept something that will serve another pat from Brussels, to aim for some PR and advertising. Let us really adopt measures aimed at combating corruption at all levels in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u112	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next speech was signed by the People's Representative Volen Siderov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Attack. To prepare Mrs. Ferryhan Ahmedova, Nayden Zelenogorski and follow seven more, enrolled. [[Replications. National Representative Atanas Merdjanov wants the floor for procedure.]] I gave the word to Mr. Siderov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law offered is absolutely unnecessary. Not only is it unnecessary, it is dust in the eyes of society, so that society does not deal with something that is much more important. First of all, I would ask what is the job of the Minister of Education to introduce a law against corruption? Mrs. Kuneva, you have introduced a law of faith at school. This is your job, so you are Minister of Education. To deal with a law on corruption means you want to please someone. Who? You were a commissioner, you probably want to become a commissioner again, and now you are applying with this Law. I am very entertained when I am told that the European Commission had some requirements for Bulgaria regarding corruption. Well, the head of the European Commission stands a man who was caught in huge corruption, for billions of people who are now there, has never been elected, but he is the head of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, who behaves as a conference, by the way, or as a weak clown. The same one as Luxembourg's prime minister was found guilty of billions of corruption. Former French President Jacques Chirac, when he went on a run against Jean-Marie Le Pen in 2002, all right-wing, left-wing Trotsky, communists and all-Christian Democrats united with the slogan: a better crook than Le Pen. Where exactly are they fingering us for corruption? It's one of the most corrupt corners in the world! The countries you point to as our model and our model, they are a model for corruption, precisely those in the European Union, the United States, where the most spectacular corruption is. Remember how many scandals there have been with donors for presidents there in the beginning the law is such that it just gives birth to corruption every day. Here you now want to make a Gestapo to pursue one who is uncomfortable. Do it. It's okay. The way I see it, it's gonna work. Only you think you'll be in power forever. Well, nothing lasts forever but God. You'll be in power for a while, then you'll fall out of power. Wouldn't the Gestapo turn against you?! Who will take the lead on this Gestapo? Someone who'll want to settle personal accounts probably. Someone who, as was just told, will be sending his own signals to investigate them. Do you believe in the independence of the judicial authorities in Bulgaria?! If you believe, you're gullible. If you think corruption is fighting the law, the people have said: a driver's license does not drive. The law cannot fight corruption first. Secondly, corruption is at lower levels in Bulgaria than in the countries you point out as an example. We, as a typical sub-mandant territory, must always be pointed out: You are bad, corrupt, correct and return. Why? Because we have double standards. Because the European Union is pouring billions into Turkey -- non-economic, anti-Christian, anti-European Turkey -- for Bulgaria -- zero. Because in Bulgaria the health system is such that if you do not go to pay by hand, you will just die, you may die by lack of medical services if you do not pay by hand. That's what every Bulgarian knows. What kind of corruption are you going to fight? We need to change the colonial system. That has to change. At the moment, almost every cop is corrupt. Police officers are shooting at the streets because they're both gangsters and policemen. You're going to fight the police. At the moment Bulgaria has become a battlefield of Apaches and Guards, which are both one and the other "You want to hang a red dot, to go to Brussels and say: "Behold, I passed the law against corruption." The bad Bulgaria is being punished again. Fine, make your asset, Mrs. Kuneva, they'll probably take you back, maybe on a board of a bank like you used to be. Apropo, didn't this bank have any interest in a nuclear power plant in Romania, which is why the blocks of the NPP were closed, and you were an active participant in this closure, against the law, with a lie, with a deception that they were bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u114	Please, on the subject, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u115	Excuse me?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u116	Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u117	That's right on the subject. We have a conflict of interest. [[Heckling]] A man with conflict of interest offers a law against conflict of interest. If you want to confiscate property or check...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u118	There are institutions that establish this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u119	...legal property, start at Mr. Plevneliev's estate. There are huge residences on Halkidiki, on the Black Sea coast, too. Check them first. By the way, and now there are plenty of bodies you can check with that you can sanction, fine and put in jail. You do not need a new Gestapo, you need an application for a new service in the European Commission. We understand that, and we'll send you back there, so to speak, with a white handkerchief at the station. Don't use parliament to have a personal career. If you are looking for corruption, expel the company that removes the Bulgarian gold and makes it for 1% concession fee. Get her out of Bulgaria! If you are looking for corruption, expel the ERPs, for which there is a volume of all kinds of violations, sufficient to be expelled from Bulgaria. You are for the colonization, you worked for the colonization of Bulgaria, you continue to work, and now you want to suddenly fix people, not be corrupt. That's not gonna happen. That is why I am telling you that you are dealing with something that takes unnecessary time from the National Assembly, from our society. In conclusion, I would say again: as Minister of Education, propose a Law on Faithfulness. That's what we're going to support from Attack. We've been pleading for this thing for years because if you don't learn God's law in school, if children don't teach it from young, then as adults for them, it's like what's good, what's bad. Then you can no longer turn them into uncorrupted or convert them because they grew up without a moral-ethical system. The only one is the Christian religion. The law of faith is your work. There we can help you, consult you. Offer it, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u120	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. [[Applause from the AG to the attack.]] - What's the line? I won't. Next statement, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u121	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u122	I'm sorry, you had a procedure, Mr. Merdjanov, I just didn't see you in the room, but you changed your place. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u123	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister! My procedure is the way it is. We have already met for several hours, you are stubbornly not announcing a holiday, which is under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly................................I do not know for what reasons. On several occasions in the hall it was called that you should give 30 minutes the legal rest that is due. We are already listening to dozens of speeches, and I put aside the question that you are ordering them at your discretion, which does not correspond to the representativeness of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Please declare a 30-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u124	Mr. Merdjanov, your two comments on the holidays are not mandatory and many times in the practice of the National Assembly has happened not to rest. I mentioned that there were ten other speeches, and I discreetly gave you a message that you could go to lunch without being noticed. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The bill is important and that is why we have decided to proceed. As for the speeches and their order, you can check every single statement, we follow the order of the parliamentary groups, so there are requests different, in this case we have followed the procedure entirely. That's my answer. [[The National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since you obviously do not comply with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on behalf of a parliamentary group we ask for a 30-minute break - not to have lunch, but to have a constructive debate on this so important Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u126	I'm calling a 15-minute recess until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u127	Honourable Members, we are continuing the debate on the Bill, the so-called Anticorruption Act. Mrs. Ferryhan Ahmedova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, we have before us the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. Does this Law set a new beginning for countering corruption and crime? Isn't this a new beginning now? The same was said in 2005, when the Law was adopted on the seizure of illegally acquired property created by the so-called Irish model. The same was said in 2006 when the Center for Prevention and Countering Corruption and Organized Crime was established, the so-called BORKOR, which was established in implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations Convention against Corruption. As early as 2000, when the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions was adopted, there was enormous expectations that public disclosure by declaring the property of the authorities would prove to be a panacea, and the established Commission for Conflict of Interests became the Commission, the Tefterce Zlatanov, which noted who to fix, who to strike. Today, the great hope of carrying out the big reform in countering corruption is in mixing old ten-year-old hopes unfulfilled, adding to them the opportunity to deliver, political or economic racketeering, adding an opportunity to declare everyone illegally wealthy until proven otherwise by himself, a total mix of incompatible legal postulates and all in a new box of ribbon with inscriptions: a reform in the fight against corruption, presented to us as a new panacea, a new hope. It is bet on one National Bureau, which will unite four institutions - BORKOR, the Commission for Conflict of Interest, the confiscation commission and that part of the Court of Auditors, which checks the property declarations. Will the mechanical gathering of these institutions make the new structure stronger, or will it make it stronger? Will it be able to counteract corruption, or will it become a repressive machine for self-mutilation and pressure against the inconvenient of power? An answer to these questions should have given the mandatory analysis of the impact of the regulatory act, but importers did not consider it necessary to provide such an analysis. They rely on the mantra to appeal to European officials and wave it around as an indeterminate condition for preserving the management formula. It is precisely the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime, which has gained popularity as BORKOR, the expert institution set up to assist the Council of Ministers in anti-corruption policy, that according to their analysis on the bill they have developed an opinion with 41 comments and proposals, 18 of them not adopted. Many of the comments and considerations with which the same Draft Law was rejected by the National Assembly in September 2015, let alone expect that this will happen between first and second reading, nor are the expert opinions of the legal and magistrate's guild taken into account. The draft Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegal Property will rather lead to damage to public relations than to solve problems. It is inexplicable why the general framework for the withdrawal of the illegal property relevant to all public relations is attached to the special hypotheses of the conflict of interest as a possible private case of corruption. The mechanical mixing of two separate administrative proceedings is also legally unsupported. The Law on the Prevention of Corruption and Prevention, Establishment and Penalties of Conflict of Interest, which is developed according to the principles and rules of the General Laws. All of this is mixed with an administrative-civil procedure for the withdrawal of illegal property under the Law for the benefit of the state of illegal property. The conduct of certain administrative violations or violations of the rules for the prevention of corruption and conflict of interest become special, separate prerequisites for the formation of proceedings for the withdrawal of illegal property equal to those described under the Criminal Code. Moreover, due to contributions or self-secution from media publications against a person holding a senior government position, a check is also being carried out in case of non-compliance with the forfeiture of property, but this is not the case for all criminal offences under the Criminal Code because they are listed selectively. Knowing the Bulgarian reality, instead of encouraging the writing of documents or so-called unsolicited signals, given the risk that the Bureau as an authority of this Law could sink into interpersonal, party or corporate wars, the persons occupying senior state services are already perceived as a priori corrupt, the so-called reform could be complete and comprehensive if the condition is introduced that the act of appointment is sufficient to begin a check of conformity of property. If it sounds ridiculous to you, the whole bill sounds the same with all its impossible mix of legal techniques. In the part concerning the forfeiture of property, the present Bill constitutes an attempt to circumvent or overcome the interpretation of the Supreme Court of Cassation by means of an interpretation of Decision No 7 of 2014, by introducing the binding court the presumption of unlawfulness of the property of the person examined. At the same time, the determination of which persons will be subject to the Law is carried out by an administrative procedure which is not subject to judicial review. In the Bill remains the feeling that the listed persons occupying senior state services, including mayors of settlements and municipal councillors, are previously declared corrupt, possess illegal property and are obliged to prove the legality of each acquisition, even for the spouses with whom they divorced five years ago, for relatives in a straight line without limitation and by matchmaking to the fourth degree. You may not have seen your second cousin for years, for example, but he's only gonna be within the scope of the inspection because he's related to you and you've committed an administrative violation. During the entire administrative phase of the proceedings, the actions of the Head Office shall be verified on the property and on Chapter Eight, Section I (V), there are no obligations of officials to establish sources of acquisition to assess their legitimate or illegal character accordingly. That's the kind of obligation the Bureau doesn't have in a court of law. The importer shall treat the person examined and the third parties as legal entities which are obliged to have active conduct in the civil process and, where they do not have it, they shall be subject to a penalty effect. The project, in its illegal property withdrawal part, contains extremely many contradictions. I will address a more significant problem which has not been affected by the talking colleagues before me so far. In order to initiate administrative proceedings, the Bureau must justify the presumption of a significant discrepancy in property and income over a period of ten years and the significant discrepancy is defined at 120 thousand. lv. The adoption of its decisions to initiate proceedings for the revocation of the illegal property shall be justified on the market values of the assets in the property set out in the same proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u129	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u130	Please complete the sentence. Your time is really up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u131	There is no procedure for the adoption and control of the act to determine these values, respectively the requirements for valuers, their responsibility and the possibility to control their assessments in the administrative phase. The valuer would in many cases act blindly due to the fact that he has to prepare a market valuation of the property at the acquisition date...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u132	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u133	Okay...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u134	...without real evaluation...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u136	In conclusion, one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u138	Mrs. Kuneva, your bill sucks, but we will support it because of the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Next statement, Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group will support this bill. Why? Because both the whole society and our partners expect decisive measures in the fight against corruption from us. We are all aware that unfortunately, the negative rankings always place us in the forehead of corruption within the European Union. That doesn't mean we're the kind of people who want to beat themselves up. We just want effective action. Effective action also goes through effective legislation. Perhaps it was a good thing that the Bill, in its first version, was not adopted in this House, because the public is focusing on this topic because a review of European legislation has been made in this area and because this bill is much stricter than the one that was tabled a year ago. Of course, we from the Reformation Bloc and the importers and the importer is the Council of Ministers, there is no way to accept lines of the kind that this is the bill of this minister, of the Deputy Prime Minister or of a specific parliamentary group, the Council of Ministers and the majority are behind this project. Yes, there are topics that need to be discussed. Yes, there are questions that need to be answered between first and second readings. Yeah, no one would want to create a political repression machine. I assure you there are a lot of people in the majority who have been quite politically repressed all these years. Unfortunately, I also found myself in the focus of these events, as some of the speakers mentioned. Somehow, however, it is time to put an end to this. Somehow it is time to create legislation that does not concern you in what part of your political spectrum at the moment, but simply on the basis of the specific signal or with concrete evidence, on the basis of a specific mechanism to prove or reject your suspicion of involvement in corruption and criminal activity. Yes, we will support the bill. Yes, we will actively participate between first and second readings in clearing all the details in removing the concerns in Bulgarian society and among colleagues in this Chamber that this could indeed be a political repressive machine. Yeah, we're aware that things are changing, and if you're in the majority today, you might be in opposition tomorrow, and if you've created one of these Frankensteins, he might be in charge of you. But, yes, we need effective and effective work against corruption, and I would hope very well with all the efforts of the Romanians and the so-called Romanian model, unfortunately, and they are at the forefront of the classification of corruption, and let us look more carefully at the American model, the German model, the model of established democracies that have achieved much more in reducing the level of corruption in their countries. I'm done with this. I will personally submit proposals to expand the circle of the observed persons. I don't think society is afraid that 12, 17 or 20 thousand people will be under special focus and under special public attention and the Bureau, which should prove every single signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u141	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zelenogorski, in fact you have just admitted that this Bill is a political bat and it is your only fear that you will not be in the next term in the ruling majority in order not to turn this bill against you. You just said that. I do not see how and with what valor from now on you can support this Bill, which you have just admitted to being a political bat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u143	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Zelenogorski's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u144	Of course, Mr. Popov, I didn't say anything like that. I know that there are political groups here, and I am not going to say who they are, who obviously have some fear of this bill, perhaps for a reason, because in practical terms they have proved their possibilities in this area repeatedly. We want a pure law that works effectively. I assure you, in no way would the majority allow this to become a machine of political repression. It is no accident that I told you that unlike left-wing groups, usually right-wing and centre-right politicians are much more frequent subjects of such interventions, unfortunately with your participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u145	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The next member of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria recorded for speech. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov. We're listening with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, compliment, excellent color you chose (red) in today's debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u147	Please, to the point, Mr. Zafirov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u148	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you usually step on the hoe once and get hit in the head is strong enough to understand that you shouldn't do it anymore. However, to step on it a second time, and quite deliberately, it is already talking about one or a clinical condition, or if it is a political act, it is simply even worse because it is talking about stubborn politics. This is exactly what it looks like for the impartial spectator today's second attempt by the Reformation bloc with the methods of political blackmail to push through an extremely controversial bill, bearing all the features of extraordinary and repressive legislation disguised otherwise behind the noble urge to fight corruption this undoubtedly scary scourge of our time. I, with a great deal of confidence, could predict today's debate, today's vote. Yeah, there's a debate going on in the hall. There were literally 10-15 significant weaknesses in the Bill, some of them, notice even unconstitutional. We've heard threats of how, if there are no changes between the two readings, we won't vote at second reading. Our importers promised us some concessions, especially on the basis of anonymous signals, as well as on the reverse burden of proof, however, a very simple promise. The bill will obviously be passed so that the Reformation bloc and Mrs. Kuneva personally can go to the presidential elections, pinned with the brooch of fighters with corruption! And their agent of influence at GERB Mr. Andreev will even be wearing two broochs, the second of the wrestler with the remnants of the State Security, such as a text, apparently under his donation, is also provided for in the Bill. Colleagues, this scenario is quite real, but, unfortunately, it pursues purely conjunctural election goals and does not provide any guarantees for changing the contested texts. After all, it is not clear why we need to accept them now that they will change between the two readings?! It is also not clear how the MPs from GERB enter into this quite shallow scenario. We did not hear a statement from GERB here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u149	You'll hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u150	Apparently, the stakes on keeping the coalition and the benefits of power are more important than giving your vote for one, frankly, a lousy law. And why is he lousy, coworkers? Because so far, we have not heard a single statement that praises the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u151	Well, listen carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u152	If I hadn't been too lazy to write a statement last night, I could have gone with my last year when we discussed the previous version of the bill. This statement, believe me, with very minor adjustments, would still be very relevant today because the proposed changes are purely cosmetic and do not affect the two main subjects of criticism on my part, namely the anonymous signals and something that no one is talking about from this platform the scope of the persons examined. So from the beginning, I started with the pick and the amazing ability to step on it twice. In some details, you have gone even further than nonsense, for example, the fact that the project provides for an unsubscribed alert to be the basis of a decision by the Bureau for initiating a check on the property situation under Chapter 7 or for proceedings for conflict of interest. This is a significant difference with the rejected bill which envisioned anonymous alerts to be a cause only for a conflict of interest proceedings, but not for a financial verification. Dear colleagues, this is an absolute precedent in our new history! Currently, anonymous signals do not apply or apply exclusively limited in Bulgarian law and procedures. The proceedings for civil confiscation shall start only after official notification by the state authority of a prosecutor or a court. The procedure under art. 50, as you suggest, creates at least three procedural problems. First, there is no provision for the principle of accidental allocation for the designation of the inspector, which within 30 days of registration of the alert will carry out the preliminary verification. What does that mean? It means that it should be determined by the Director only. 50, para. 2. Second, there is no legal definition of the expression 50, para. 5. Is this finding grounds for initiating confiscation proceedings, or for a conflict of interest on the anonymous alert?! Third, it is not foreseen that if the operative act does not contain these data, the act itself or the decision of the Commission refusing to initiate proceedings should be sent to a prosecutor for general supervision of legality, for the possibility of protesting before the court..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 50, para. 4. The principle of independence of the state apparatus includes zero legal possibilities for manipulating an official by corporations, lobby groups or political opponents through blackmail. Unfortunately, the anonymous signal opens a wide door for options right in this direction. The valid anonymous signal is a phenomenon almost unknown in the legislation in force. Here any analogies with foreign permissions are absolutely inappropriate. Even at the very meeting in Romania, which is mentioned here, the Secretary General of the Agency for integrity said that there is no guarantee that what works in Romania will also work in Bulgaria. The introduction into matter related to serious fines, sanctions, the withdrawal of part of the salary, as well as dismissal, early termination of a mandate would provoke and encourage the deposit of any anonymous signals aimed at resolving personal, political, professional and any other disputes. The second weakness I spoke about in the matter of conflict of interest is that a significant contraction of the subjective scope of the Law is envisaged. Incorrectly abandoning a system that proves its effectiveness to centrally identify and sanction conflict of interest. This system has been operating since mid-2011. This is where I will commend it, although it was accepted by another government, it has been given the opportunity to carry out this state action by a special state authority, a single sustainable administrative practice in implementing the Law, bringing out prevention, which is also very important, of conflict of interest as a priority, systematic actions in this direction in the form of trainings, monitoring declarations, drawing up materials and so on. The Bureau will now examine a conflict of interest only in terms of about 12 to 15 thousand people who hold senior public positions. Competentness to establish in relation to the remaining up to 120 thousand, as is the current regime of the Law on Conflict of Interest, will have again, notice, the corresponding several hundred appointment or election bodies. I give an example: a minister will establish a conflict of interest with regard to experts in the ministry. Mayor of the Municipality of........................................................................................................ Mayor of the City Hall with regard to the experts in the City Hall. Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior for the relevant police officers and so on. Well, is that right?! The decentralised system has already been operating from 2009 to 2011 and its recovery will repeat the problem at this stage with a lack of capacity in smaller administrations to conduct the conflict of interest procedure. Another much more significant defect that I spoke about last year is the possibility of political influence on these procedures and the formation of different practices in the application of a law. Last year I asked you again: how will you convince me that these inspectors will be protected from political influence and political interference? You can't convince me of this in any way! Here is another argument in favour of my reasoning that so written and proposed, the bill creates a basis for political pressure. If I have to summarize, this reduction creates two groups of problems: deprofessionalisation of this state activity, because there are hundreds of bodies of choice and appointment that will have an obligation to establish conflicts of interest for these 105 thousand people, but they do not have the necessary expertise for this. Secondly, the possibility of the establishment and conduct of the establishment proceedings in the appointing authorities for political reasons. Ms. Kuneva and colleagues from the ruling coalition, I will stop there because the problematic texts in this bill are dozens. The topic of eclectic mixing of civil confiscation with conflict of interest is an endless topic and can take hours of disputes about its overall appropriateness. I am tempted to conclude by touching yet another great innovation introduced by you to use polygraphs in the integrity tests of the Bureau inspectors. I am doing this to say, colleagues, that in our constant example of Romania, not only do they not use any polygraphs, but by urging them to ask this question at the meetings organised by our Commission, they looked at me rather expressively and misunderstood, apparently thinking that I was not aware of a major postulate, namely that it is possible with such a polygraph people to mistakenly be called liars or forgers of the truth. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, such a mistake is worth much more than the right result that can possibly be obtained. Therefore, the method is not considered reliable and is not used by the court. I ask, Mrs. Kuneva: if such a text is so important, why is it only for inspectors and not for the management of the Bureau, which you clearly intend to appoint on a political basis? And more: wouldn't this text be even more important to people holding high public positions for those engaged in public activity, ministers and deputy prime ministers, for example? You, Mrs. Kuneva, take this polygraph and answer questions. Your colleague called, and I will ask you the specific questions. For example: Did you promise anything in the election campaign that you knew you couldn't perform? Or: When you wrote a law, did you have an influence on whose interests you serve? Or: Does your personal views affect the decisions you make? Or: have you defended a decision that is not of public interest but serves party interests? Assuming that the polygraph is so reliable, it must first be subjected to the people whose responsibilities and decisions affect the whole society. Of course, a lot of other things can be said, but I'll stop there. In conclusion, it is good that when such extremely important laws are adopted, there is a very broad consensus. I don't see such consensus in this room right now. All this gives us reason not to support the bill you have tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u153	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. - What's the line? Two lines on the left side of the room, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Mr. Zafirov, I respect your efforts to analyze this text and to draw the attention of the MPs on its anti-democraticness, on its anti-constitutionality, on the hidden mechanisms for political repression, which provide a prerequisite for change, including in the functioning of the political system in Bulgaria. I would like to draw attention to one particular fact. This bill is contrary to art. 31 of the Constitution, where it is written that no one can be blamed on the basis of his confessions. What do these polygraphs mean? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u155	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u156	Second question. Alinea 3. No one can be found guilty until a sentence has come into force. Well, what is the whole philosophy of the Bill as tabled? It's a totalitarian law! Totalitarian Law of Law, norms characteristic of totalitarian state! I am sorry and ashamed of the reformers who I believe are convinced liberals at heart! I'm ashamed of the totalitarian legislation you're proposing! Mr. Zafirov, this bill cannot be analyzed with democratic instruments! He's outside the constitutional order of the state! It's a fascist law! According to him, each of us, from you, as they did in the Turkish Parliament, could take away the immunity of the MPs. So tomorrow, based on all the evidence that's been sewn up...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u157	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u158	...everyone can be hanged like Tricho Kostov! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u159	Thank you. Mr. Zafirov, you should have listened carefully to this line. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u160	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u161	I'll listen carefully if it's a line from Mr. Zafirov's words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u162	Dear Mr. Zafirov, I am not pleased with your speech because you did not say clearly and directly in the eyes of the Minister the truth about this bill. Why didn't you say that with regard to the fight against corruption, it was an empty transfusion? This is not the Anti-Corruption Act, and I will explain why. Perhaps the Minister does not know that there is a legal definition of corruption or perhaps because he knows very well, in the Bill nowhere but in the title, there is no term "Corruption." There's talk of corruption! Some innovation in law, an imaginary concept that will interpret it incredibly expansive! Why didn't you tell your colleagues that if they voted for this Bill, they put their neck noose on themselves, that tomorrow they would only pray that they wouldn't hang them, but neither will Allah nor God hear them?! Why didn't you tell your colleagues at the DPS that their position is extremely unusable against the bill, but they will vote for the DPS because they are still part of the management obviously?! All these truths you should have told Madame Minister. [[Reply from the right block.]] What are you afraid of her for? [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u163	Your group's time is up, Mr. Georgiev. Third line, Mr. Lazarov. Just to say that Mr. Philip Popov's statement is off, as the time of the group of BSP LB is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Kuneva, honourable colleagues! Because here I've been listening to a polygraph of nowhere in the world being used as evidence, it's good to read the laws. Nowhere in the Bill is indicated that the polygraph is used as evidence. I'll say one more thing. Nowhere in the Bill does it state that the "Bureau", the Commission, as you would like to call it, takes it, because, you see, it violates the Constitution because there is the principle of innocence. The court, the Bulgarian court, is the one who decides on the filed claim! And now that's the law in force! The Bulgarian Court is the one who decides if there is an established conflict of interest if someone is appealing. The Bulgarian court is ruling on the findings of the tax authorities! Dear colleagues, from what is said earlier, I am convinced that there is simply no need for a polygraph. In the supporting points that you have been reading hard, which you have been written, you do not even believe in what you are reading, so there is no need for a polygraph for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u165	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Here you go, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u166	Mr. Lazarov, I really don't need a polygraph because, unlike you, I didn't serve in the repressive authorities until November 10th, or after November 10th, I want to clarify.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u167	I didn't serve either!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u168	I want to tell you this. I thought no one here could outperform the Pharisee and Byzantine statements in which they explained how the bill was very bad, but we will support it because it is the Anti-Corruption Act, but you have surpassed them. How can there not be, Mr. Lazarov, written in the Bill that the polygraph will be used in the tests of integrity? I'm sorry, if you won't step on these results, what will you use them for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u169	Please don't step out of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u170	So they can ask him if he's cheating on his wife? Is that why they're using this polygraph? That's great. I don't know exactly how to define it. Colleagues, regarding your remarks, I wrote down very carefully. Everything you said is true. I will do my best in all possible large, small and medium-sized media to say what I could not say from this stands. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u171	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. The next speech is from the MP Danail Kirilov from the parliamentary group of GERB party.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! At the very beginning, I would like to say that our parliamentary group consciously, reasonably, consistently and not for the first time will support discussions at first reading Draft. We believe that the project, which is of our attention, largely reflected the remarks and took into account the criticisms that were brought down as these and as arguments when discussing the first reading of the previous bill, which was rejected on 3 September 2015. In any case, the bill we are looking at is much better, much better built, much more systematic than the previous version, and I would say to the sources that you comment on and point to. Yes, this Law does incorporate legal rules of our current legislation, which is applicable to existing and to date anti-corruption bodies in the Republic of Bulgaria with one or another competence. I've listened very carefully to the debate so far. Alas, I couldn't listen to all the speakers. My impression is as follows, the previous speakers eloquently proved it to be the eyes of fear, colleagues, apparently large. However, I believe that the Law and the Law should validate good conduct, should validate and confirm proper compliance with the law. So if something seems excessive to you, it's for another reason. That's for another reason, and that's why we are. One of the great reasons we are here, standing in plenary and not only in this National Assembly, but probably in at least 10 editions of the National Assembly before that. I will allow myself to share some of the debates that I and members of the Legal Committee have had with the team that monitored the Cooperation and Evaluation Mechanism. As the comments on the Law were indeed quite lengthy, serious questions were indeed raised, I finally took the liberty of asking the following question: does the mechanism specifically ask, do the Members of the General Directorate of Justice ask for such a special law? The answer was simple. Colleagues, you are deluded if you think that we are making any, say, specific requirements for such or that law. They say: when we listened to you, we did not really understand where the laws were adopted in your country. Don't they get into the National Assembly? What's your problem? It was Europe or this one or that one. The laws shall be adopted by the Members of the National Assembly. What do the MPs take into account? They're considering their constituents' interest. They are subject to the laws and to the state's interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u173	And the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u174	And the Constitution. And they're in line with the Constitution. Then what is your problem with making this Law the way you think it should be? One that you believe your constituents will be convinced that you are fighting corruption effectively. One that brings you results. Because I even took the liberty of putting the question into question: should we adopt laws, or are we looking for statistical results, so many ministers in prison, so many MPs in prison or so many magistrates in prison. No, that was the answer, and as a matter of fact this is the correct answer... especially this Law must meet the needs of the Bulgarian legal order. He must meet the needs of every Bulgarian to regain confidence in his representatives. And if we've gotten there in this recovery procedure, we should all ask ourselves the question and answer it: why did it come to this? Yes, any law, and the most perfect law, may not apply. I say this in the following sense: of course it cannot not be applied, but the bad faith in its application, in quotes, can derogate meaning and content. That's why you find this law more radical. Because he needs to clearly identify...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u175	What does "radical law" mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u176	... the mechanisms of responsibility and stop, and prevent, and prevent any conflict of conduct or behavior from occurring. I think and will not repeat it, as Mrs Kuneva, as Deputy Prime Minister and importer explicitly said it, we will have the opportunity to discuss all the proposals between first and second readings. I continue to argue that the working group, which would be formed if the bill were adopted at first reading, will be as wide as possible. I inform all colleagues, not only from the committee responsible, but from all the committees involved, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Conflict of Interests and colleagues from all the other committees, that they are invited to the working group. Furthermore, I believe that all institutions which have a direct or indirect interest or competence in the implementation of the Law should participate in the Working Group. But, colleagues, we must pass the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u177	Why should I?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u178	We cannot stand in the hanging position we are in right now. I will allow myself very little to specify on one of the issues at issue on the so-called reverse burden.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u179	The fundamental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u180	Reverse evidence burden. Colleagues, this is not a precedent in our legislation. Look at the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. Remember at the time of the Forty-second National Assembly, when you carried out any political repression towards our representatives and we in every way sought to protect the legitimate rights and interests of these colleagues. It's been applied. The Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) shall apply with full force. And it proves itself. Ten years back, it's all proven. The withdrawal committee can also make withdrawal proceedings, even if it is independent and separate. We've been through this. We've paid that price, colleagues. That is why I am telling you, wisely and consciously, nevertheless, we are behind this bill. I'm returning you to the Law on embezzlement of illegally acquired property. Yes, in the Bill amending the Law on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, which we saw at first reading in February, as was rightly noted, there was also a recovery of the so-called reverse burden. Also then, a very difficult debate was held in the Legal Committee on this issue. Then, too, a decision was made and it was considered that there would be an additional debate on this issue and that it should be expanded finally at second reading. So I will also allow myself to confirm to you this duration of the position. Yes, we must be extremely careful by what we call reverse proof. Very careful! Indeed, legal and constitutionally guaranteed rights should not be put at risk, but neither should dishonest and criminal behaviour be supported. You can't! In order not to prolong the debate, because so far we have said and many times we have repeated our main arguments, I will limit my speech here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov. After him, the People's Representative Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group has already expressed its approval assessment that the rejected last year Law on the Prevention of Corruption has been seriously revised and we are looking at a very changed new bill. However, since its discussion coincides with the Law on the Judiciary, another relevant law, there is no way not to compare the different approaches of the two importers. And because of the unfortunate last year's experience, logic was supposed to be bet on publicity, openness, discussion before the bill was passed. It was also required by the highly public interest on the subject. The required results sought will not be achieved if the fight against corruption does not harness the forces of all entities that have their share in it. In this sense, we do not blame the people who wrote the Law, but we refer to those who have the claim to see wrestlers with corruption, but they have also missed the importance of the approach, of dialogue. Undisputed are the pending without a reliable answer, but fundamental questions on the Bill. The texts say that there is no forecast analysis of the potential impact of the Law. Will the new body be able to carry out quality checks on time and time? There is a re-covering of functions inherent in the current NRA. How do we distinguish them? And will he have enough of the Bureau's expertise? The envisaged opportunity for cooperation with foreign institutions involves the Bureau to require information about assets, investments, transactions of Bulgarian citizens abroad, but similar powers are currently available to the NRA. At ABB, we have always believed that the fight against corruption cannot be fought and conducted by a single institution. The Bureau seems to have about 80 employees employed. There's seven thousand in the NRA. Our expectations of the Law are realistic in this sense. The collection of four institutions in one puts with all its complexity the issue of the place and the role of prevention. The prevention body should be equally distant from all institutions, working with them in partnership, as well as with civil society, with the media and with the European Commission, but theirs, the prevention authority, participation in the realization of civil confiscation and the imposition of sanctions, is perplexing. How are prevention functions combined? Inconclusive, however, other texts of the Law are awakening. We cannot miss the subject of the state of the specialized institutions in this discussion in 20 months almost from the mandate of the government of the forty-third parliament, for more than three years the Advisory Council for the Fight against Corruption has not been convened, and this is a governing body by representatives of all the authorities, as well as the independent Court of Auditors. For years, the non-completion of the Committee on Conflict of Interest continues. Are her decisions legitimate? It's composed of three instead of five members. Such questions are also pending for the Commission for the confiscation of property. If nothing else, a sign of non-seriousity are left to semi-function state bodies at this time. It is widely known that the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Council of Laws, the Institute of Market Economics, various NGOs and parliamentary groups have declared a justified criticality to the Bill and its current version. There is a consensus on the need for a legal definition of any concept, because such a lack of not a little of the notions such as..corruption behavior.... property of unclear origin.................................................................................... Their absence may lead to different application of legal practices by individual courts. It is undoubtedly the top priority of the selection procedure for the members of the Bureau. The leading role in the Law is assigned to the MPs by the portfolio committee, where all parliamentary groups are equal. The rules for selection, for hearing candidates are maximum transparency and openness, but there are no guarantees of integrity here either. In their deeds you will recognize them and guide us to measuring and checking the performance of their duties at work. The so-called "anonymous signals" "one of the priority issues of the Bill" are a challenge that the guarantee can only be in integrity, professionalism, independence of employees, in the qualities of the people of the Bureau. So we don't even remember the unfortunate book from three and a half years ago. With particular reluctance, the ABB states that we retain our reservations on the proposed bill. We are not convinced that it contains the potential for a fundamental, effective tool to prevent corruption as it should be. For us are unacceptable rash, conjunctural legislative solutions designed not so much to solve the severe problems with corruption practices and actions in the country as for our observers. At the same time, the project feeds mistrust of statehood, in professional and civic circles. The ABB does not accept the prosecution or findings of the kind that we did not want to fight corruption and that is why we are against the Law. On the contrary, the discussion is only in the National Assembly on the Law with the participation of a wide range of representatives of the judiciary, the NGOs were organized not by the importer of this Law, but by the ABB and our colleagues from the People's Union and Gorgeovden. Commenting critically on the Law, we are guided by the belief that we need to be aware of exactly what we will achieve with it. The expert opinions presented not only by institutions but also by the non-governmental sector predict the serious danger of creating total chaos both in institutional and administrative terms and in legal terms, and also the proposed project has nothing to do with the announced Romanian model. The specifics of this Law distinguishes him from many others. It is not a function simply of the votes of the majority. More importantly, it is undoubtedly whether the Law creates an effective model for combating corruption, because now those concerned about the majority calculate the number of votes in the Chamber, but they did not do what was necessary to discuss this Law, to propose it in a form that will not require subsequent revision and future amendments and additions. It must be lasting. We cannot fail to realize that the mechanical collection of old laws is not the most working legislative technique. We believe that that is why the request was also made, that a working group under the Law would be formed. Due to all issues and problems raised here, the ABB will abstain at first reading by stating readiness to participate in the Working Group under the Law and will insist on taking into account and reflecting the views coming into the parliamentary committees by institutions and non-governmental organisations, to improve the Law and to change the contested texts, the executive central and local authorities to begin a full review of the registrations, permits and licensing regimes in order to reduce them sharply, simplify and optimize them and now, after the new Public Procurement Act entered into force in April this year, to take urgent organisational measures by the executive and local authorities for the maximum transparent and fair conduct of public procurement procedures, but not with the price of creating additional bureaucratic and administrative burden of participants. Actions are needed to prove that legal norms are not an obstacle to the anti-corruption struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak the word has the popular representative Yavor Haytov. After him is the people representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will really be very brief because our partners and colleagues from our parliamentary group of BDZ have an important journey and want to participate in this vote, but first I want to hear, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, can you guarantee here from the highest tribune in Bulgaria that no Bulgarian citizen will suffer from unlawful acts against it by this notorious commission to be established? There is nothing more important than guaranteeing the rights of Bulgarian citizens! I want to tell you that even if a Bulgarian citizen is threatened by repression, it is not worth voting on this Law! And you have the great responsibility here, today and now convincingly, betting even your political career, to ensure that no Bulgarian citizen will suffer from repression, because coming here crossed my mind a brief historical flashback. No one should forget that other than new, modern and political parties there are Bulgarian old, historical parties and one of them is the Agricultural Union. After September 9th 1944 in the camps in Bogdanov Dol, in Kutian, in Skravena in their dominant part there were farmers and many of them were there precisely on anonymous signals and deposits, without convictions and without judgments of courts, so today is actually one of the tests on democracy. We have long thought, I will not hide, we have argued and, notice, our group, which has never been as united as today, yes, we will give support to this Law, but bear in mind that if at second reading what has not happened before me speakers like Mr. Tsonev and other experienced MPs, we will be forced to withdraw our support under this Law because, let's face it, you are an alumni of the Faculty of law, this Law is not good. I can feel a lot of people trying one way or another to say support. I even listened to my old friend and colleague Metodi Andreyev, it is really not good this Law because it threatens Bulgarian citizens to be repressed. It is your responsibility not to question stability and not to twist the hands of all of us politically, that you see, who does not vote this Law, it is almost part of the corruption mafia in the country. There's something else that's very important. In its core part, this Law concerns the government, that is to say, it concerns you as well. And I would like to remind you of a very interesting collection of the great political power, the mandate carrier GERB in Hall 1 of the National Palace of Culture, where the Prime Minister has more than 15 minutes. He's talking about high-level corruption. So if this Law does not work, you should not seek justification and reproach against the Bulgarian opposition because it is your responsibility. I am finishing my speech and will wait for convincing arguments from you, clear and precise that no Bulgarian citizen will be harmed, which is most important. Thank you. [[Private applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u186	I don't agree with what Mr. Haytov said. I do not want my speech to be used as an argument by people who do not have support. I made it very clear in my speech that this Law must be supported and I called on everyone to do so. But to use my statement to explain why they will not support the Law, I do not accept it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u187	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Oscar Wilde has also said that hypocrisy is the heavy tax that vice pays virtue. From the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that this is a good Law, which must be supported because in whatever form it is to be adopted, the vice will pay a tax to virtue because of the existence of such a law, because of the hypocrisy with which a large majority in this House says it will support a law because of its title and not because of its content. We heard that as an official position of parliamentary groups, especially that of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We also know the official position of colleagues from the Patriotic Front. By the way, there is a serious coincidence of the position here, which will support this Law for two reasons. The first is because the majority helped them limit the voting rights of Bulgarians abroad, and the second is because they have the assurance that the Law will be further mutilated between first and second readings. After all, in its final entry into force, this Law can also be hypocrisy, it can be a real prerequisite for combating corruption, as it was designed and prepared, with the motivation which, I am convinced, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Bulgarian Government are bringing it into this Chamber. No, Mr. Haytov, so no one gets hurt, but to make sure no one gets hurt! Since there are many corrupt people in Bulgarian politics and in the management of Bulgaria, this Law, among other laws, must ensure that these people are harmed and not harmed! Whether this Law will be hypocrisy or will result in a real reduction of corruption in our society depends on two factors. The first is how mutilated he will be between first and second readings. The second is the selection and selection procedure of the Bureau's management, which will implement it. Here I would like to point out that contrary to the opinion of most speakers, I liked more the first project, which was rejected last year, for at least two reasons. There was then a single body for the fight against corruption and a corresponding choice of a person who was fully responsible for the results of the implementation of this Law, and secondly, because this person was not elected by the National Assembly, that is to say, not elected by the objects of impact of this Law. Because political corruption in parliamentary democracies is too often concentrated in parliament. I do not think that this Parliament makes a particularly exception to this. Yesterday's example of the choice of the Commission for Protection of Competition only further confirms my belief that the current bill is a retreat from the previous one, which was drawn up by a very serious team of experts, collected mainly by Mrs. Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the fight against corruption. Continuing the line of concessions between first and second readings, which formed as a consensus in this House, would guarantee that the Law would be nothing more than hypocrisy. This will also be the stage at which Democrats for Strong Bulgaria will strongly oppose the continued weakening of the measures under the Law, but we will strongly support it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. You have the floor, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with great attention to the speeches. In each of them there was something worth continuing to be discussed to find the best solution. In many cases, the statements on the same issue, which is within the scope of the Law, were quite contrary to the fact that the Law is a mechanical congregation and that there is nothing new in it, to the very opposite, that the Law is so radical and so different that it is directly unpredictable. I think we need to put a few points forward after what I have heard in your debates. Let us first say something that Mr. Lazarov repeated several times that this is not a criminal law. It's an administrative law. Let us also say that this Law has judicial control. Let's say that what the Law currently proposes relating to the revocation of the illegally acquired property is an effective arrangement. Let us also say that, particularly on this issue in February, I stress again, this National Assembly has accepted the thesis with which we came up in the Bill relating to civil confiscation. It was more normal for me to follow what you suggested and which was accepted at first reading than not to comply with your desire from February. There are countries, not totalitarian at all, where such a law operates. From its application, we should not simply do nothing but do everything possible to work with the support of both Parliament and our entire society. I believe that in every parliamentary power there are voters who expect what we will do as a result of this law. In brackets, I would say that the Bureau's work in the Bill is checked every two years from an external evaluation, that is, such an external view exists. There are things between the first and second versions of the Law that have not reached all MPs. I'm going to set a very small example that seems important to me. Mr. Zafirov said why there is no accidental distribution of cases in the inspectors. I'm reading al. 3 of art. 22: The determination of the reporters inspectors shall be carried out on a random basis by rules adopted by the Office. In other words, much of the comments can be cleared by going text by text and explaining where they are, as in this case. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the fact that between first and second reading there will be no prohibited topics and we will discuss in a constructive spirit absolutely everything that you think will make the Law punishing the conflict of interest on the high levels of power and preserving, of course, all the ways in which the rights of the individual are protected will give us a law that is even better. I think that between the first and second versions, we enriched the Law with hypotheses that life requires an answer to. Now, after the discussions between first and second readings, I hope we can make together an even stronger law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. I put to the vote a bill to prevent corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property, No 602-01-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 April 2016. Vote 171 MPs: 130 against 28, abstention 13. The bill was passed in the first vote. First negative vote "The People's Representative Philip Popov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Sighs, noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u193	Please, quiet and order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u194	I voted against this Law, apart from all the arguments that my fellow Members have listed and because of several others. The contents of the Law are contradictory: the subject of the arrangement are two materials "Civil confiscation and conflict of interest," with too few intersections. As subjective scope, factual composition and procedure, they are rather excluded than supplemented. Civil confiscation and conflict of interest are two different state functions which are carried out under different laws on different legal grounds and are currently assigned to different state authorities. One state activity is aimed at the state apparatus, and the other is aimed at organised crime and the grey sector, or perhaps in this Law you rethink that they are the same thing. The combination of such different institutes in a single legal act with the rank of law is contrary to art. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Civil confiscation and conflict of interest are legal institutes which govern various public relations. The General Authority has created the possibility for some of these two and more state activities to be identified as priority activities at the expense of the others. The project is not a codifying law in the matter of fighting corruption. A narrow understanding of this concept involves, above all, the crime of the Penal Code. [[Replying, noise, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u195	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u196	At the same time, at the deviation of the requirement for specialization he mixed two different and without almost any cross points legal materials. Art. 94, para. 3 of that Law provides that the 10-year limitation period from the date of acquisition of the property concerned is to be deemed to be suspended from the date of the initiation of the verification. That's unacceptable, to put it mildly. The limitation shall be a period with the expiry of which the public danger of the offence concerned shall be deemed to have been eliminated. In conclusion, Mr President, in a nutshell: anything that is not necessary is unnecessary. This Law is unnecessary because it is dark-haired, dressed in the shiny armor of fighting corruption. Between first and second reading, you were going to change it. [[Reply, shouts:...................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u197	The weather, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u198	And tomorrow is a day, coworkers, but another day. Here and now was the time to stop this dark-haired Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u199	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u200	With this act, you rulers have shown that you are afraid of the opposition and that you are willing to do anything to keep the power that has taken hold of you desperately. Thank you. [[Noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u201	Thank you. There are no other negative votes. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u202	Mr President, honourable Members, I see that the left is particularly happy that the Law has passed, and so am I. My proposal is to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the need, obviously, for a serious debate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u203	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski to extend the period between the first and the second vote to the maximum possible one under our Rules. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on our agenda: EXEMPTION OF A MEMBER OF THE SUPERVISION BOARD OF THE PRIVIZATION AGENCY AND AFTER APPLISSION CONTROL. An application from Julia Racheva Nenkova, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was received in the proceedings of the National Assembly: On the occasion of my election as President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, I would like to be relieved of the position held by a member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. I offer your attention. Project! DECISION on the release of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. HAS DECIDED Releases Julia Racheva Nenkova as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. You have the floor to speak. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote your proposed draft decision. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The decision's been made. The next item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RESPONSIBILITY. Importer: Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016, adopted on the first vote on 27 May 2016. The bill was introduced in the National Assembly Law under No 602-01-27. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to the President of the Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we proceed to the second vote report, please put to the vote the admission of Assoc. Dr. Deputy Minister Georgi Kostov, Panayot Gospodinov, Director of the Directorate of Hydromeliorations, Nadezhda Bogdanova, State Expert in the same structure, and Sonya Simeonova, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u205	We vote on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of the persons designated by the National Representative Rumen Hristov. Vote 91 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 6. Your offer is accepted. Invite the faces to the hall. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please take your seats. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The Law on Irrigation Associations is amended and supplemented by the Law on Irrigation Associations. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, p. 1 the words given to them by the order of art. 47 and § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u207	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, the text of the importer for § 1 and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 2 with its content on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law, § 1 and § 2 were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u208	Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the 1. In para. 1 the words "supplier" and "supplier" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "food'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u209	Statements? Here you are.. People's representative Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u210	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The draft proposed, one of its main merits so far, was that the state was committed to helping the irrigation associations and the proposal that is now being made is the word of help to disappear. The motivation to oppose this proposal is in a few directions. First, it is a voluntary association of natural and legal persons who perform certain functions of public interest. Secondly, in many of the laws in Bulgaria, the word "assisted" exists in the Co-operatives Act it is noted that the state supports; in the Agricultural Aid Act; in the Law on Common Organisation of Markets; in the Act on Research and so on. Why are we running away from this word and, in general, from the need for the State to assist associations which are established for the purpose of a particular activity and which is in the public interest in the interests of its members? We propose that the word "helping" remain in the Law, moreover, that the Minister of Agriculture then supervises, without supporting, but will supervise the activities of the irrigation associations in terms of the functions they perform, and for the most part they are in the interest of not only water users and those who are in associations but also in the interests of the owners of agricultural land. We maintain our view that the word "assisted" should remain in the Bill as one of the main requirements of the state to perform its functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u211	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 21, Against 35, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which, after an amendment by the Commission, becomes § 3 in its report. We are voting § 3 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 59 against 14, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, both I and my colleague Dimitrov failed to vote. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I am re-voting the generally supported text of the importer for § 2 which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 3 with its respective content on the Commission report. Please re-vote. Vote 89 MPs: 69, against 12, abstention 8. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u214	Under § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 the words "50 per cent plus one" shall be replaced by "30 per cent."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u215	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission They voted 92 MPs: 18, against 46, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote § 4 on the Commission report, which is an edited version of the importer for § 3. 90 MPs voted: 77 against 12, abstention 1. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u216	Paragraph 4? a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u217	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 16 against 52, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, supported by the Commission and becoming § 5. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 10, abstention 1. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u218	Paragraph 5? a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 2 words from 50 plus 1 of the votes, and by that. The majority of the members shall be replaced by more than half of the votes of the members. 2. The creation of para. 3: The decisions referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 the words "by the law' shall be replaced by "in the law.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u219	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 17 against 63 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 6 to 9 including the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: 81, against 10, abstention 2. Paragraphs 6 to 9 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u220	Paragraph 9? a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In § 9 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." The main text is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov § 9 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The supervisory authority shall provide at written request of the association: 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 in the beginning is added 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 in the beginning is added graphical and text information The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 after the words. 7, p. Article 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. The first sentence of the first sentence is the words of the pleadings of the Registrar and, second sentence, the words of the Board of Appeal shall be replaced by the words of the Board of Appeal and may be appealed in accordance with the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u221	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, first, Professor. Bachvarova, then Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making is the provision of information by the Association in terms of graphic and textual information on agricultural land and hydromeliorative infrastructure. In the Law in force so far, this information is provided free of charge to associations. The proposal is for this information to be paid, with the fees due to each property being extremely burdened by the associations, given that each of you may have an idea of how much a sketch of the companies supporting the properties or documents that are issued by the Cadastral Agency is worth. Experts and those currently working in the associations say that this represents the order of 50 000. BGN, which each association must pay from here on in order to have this information. Without this information, the associations can't start working. Therefore, our proposal relates to our desire, upon written request by the Association, to provide this information free of charge and thus to ease the procedures for the work of associations and the financial results, indeed, to be in the interest of the members who associate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u223	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Stankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My proposal is almost identical to Mrs. Ninova's. In the Commission, I have said and I continue to argue that support and references are needed as key words in this bill. I'm saying this so I don't have to take any more of this into consideration on another proposal. These irrigation associations are known to operate in the public interest and must be assisted. In this case, what we are talking about is precisely helping to provide the information so needed free of charge. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the basic Law is written that these associations have two important functions, two important activities These are key problems for Bulgaria. These associations do not have economic interests, so they are not enterprises, as some interpretations are given, so we insist that this text is different from Mrs. Ninova, and to keep the old text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u225	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 23, against 48, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, also not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 21, against 20, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 to 14 including the Commission's report. Vote 80 MPs: for 70, against 10, no abstentions. Paragraphs 10 to 14 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u226	Paragraph 14. A proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov § 14 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the name of Chapter 5, the words "the references' are deleted. Paragraph 15. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Ferihan Ahmedova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: the Ministry of Agriculture and Food may grant associations, for a period of 5 years, the right to use on hydromeliorative infrastructure sites and service equipment in the territory of the association included in the property of commercial companies in which the State is the sole owner of the capital or their successors. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. 3 after the word "objectives" the service equipment shall be added. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture and Food may grant the association a new right of use for a period of 15 years if within the period under para. 1 the association has not been deprived of the right of use or is not subject to administrative punishment for breach of the law and the acts of its application. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u227	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Ivan Stankov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 19 against 4, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 15, § 16 and § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u228	Paragraph 17. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal to dismiss § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. Paragraph 20. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 20 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u229	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 20, Against 55, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 18, 19 and 20 on the Commission report, as well as the Commission's proposal for the removal of § 20 by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 have been adopted under the Commission's report and § 20 by importer has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u230	Paragraph 21. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In the new version of Art. 21 58 after the word "supposed', is added in compliance with the principles of the uniform price for the territory of the association and tolerability of the price for the production in question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u231	So far, only it says here that the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 21 and you said that it does not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u232	Excuse me! The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 21 but does not support Ms Ninova's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u233	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Perhaps this is the most important part of the Bill, and I would like to draw attention to the proposal we are making for a bearable price of irrigation water for agricultural production. The Commission had a debate about what that concept was. Those who are in the Committee on Ecology and know the Water Act know that the exact same term is used for consumers, because if there is no bearable price, there will be no competitive production. What do we do with this Law? We do not know the regulation by which the property will be granted to state enterprises because it is to be established and adopted by the Council of Ministers. We do not know what will be the methodology by which the water price for irrigation will be calculated. What's happening right now can happen. There is a methodology, but subjective determination of the price of water, where its price in southern Bulgaria, for example, in the area of Pazardzhik is 2 pennies, while in Samokov is 87 pennies. With 87 pennies of water for irrigation, no production can be profitable! We therefore propose that there be at least some indication, i.e. water for irrigation be available to farmers in order to be able to carry out their activities. Just to remind you that the water for irrigation is not paid in Greece, which means that Greek production and Greek fruit and vegetables come here with competitive price, while in Bulgaria this cannot happen until subjectively we define it. There will be a priced methodology which will not be able in any form to reach farmers in such a way as to effectively organise their production. Therefore, our request is that the price be borne by farmers in this text. This should be the basis of the methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-30.u235	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We are going to vote on a proposal made by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 18, against 51, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 78, against 12, abstention 1. Paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 of the Commission report have been adopted. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 1 July 2016, Friday, 11:00: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Radan Kanev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer two questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov and Manol Genov and one question from the MP Atanas Atanasov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer nine questions from the MPs: Georgi Tarnovalyski, Stoyan Mirchev [[two questions]] , Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] , Mariana Boyadjieva and Valeri Jablyanov, Milen Mihov, Mithat Metin and Christian Vigenin. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Rumen Gechev. 5. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer seven questions from the MPs: Willi Lilkov [[two questions]] , Velizar Enchev, Martin Dimitrov, Rumen Gechev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski, and Georgi Svilenski. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Nedev, Velizar Enchev, Krasimir Yankov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, and Kristian Vigenin and one question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. 7. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer 11 questions from the MPs: Yavor Haytov [[two questions]] , Rumen Gechev [[two questions]] , Stanislav Stanilov, Nikola Hadjiyski, Georgi Kovachev, Willi Lilkov, Manol Genov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, and Georgi Tarnovalyski and a question from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev. 8. Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Yavor Haytov. 9. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Gokov. 10. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer seven questions from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Willi Lilkov, Yavor Haytov [[two questions]] , Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Ivan Ibrishimov. 11. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, Atanas Zafirov, Velizar Enchev and one question from the MP Angel Naydenov. 12. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. 13. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Gunaj Husmen and Stanislav Stanilov. 14. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer two questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Petar Hristov Petrov and one question from the MP Willi Lilkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question by the National Representative Ayhan Etem; and to a question by the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions with written answer from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Slavi Binev and Claudia Georgieva-Gancheva. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from MP Miho Mihov to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev; - two questions from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov to the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov and to the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will not participate. Due to prior commitments, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The time scheduled for today's plenary day is over. Tomorrow we continue with the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training with the Importer Council of Ministers. This will take place tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. at 1 July 2016, We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
