ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, according to the adopted weekly programme and the moment the plenary session ended yesterday, we should continue with the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. However, since there are several texts that have been postponed from all plenary sittings until the time to be agreed, I am making a procedural proposal for paragraphs 5 and 6.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A counteroffer? I won't. Please vote on my procedural proposal. Vote 139 MPs: 109 against 19, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LEGISLATION OF THE BLACKMORROWING Mr. Zelenogorski's gone. I ask a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government to report. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u2	Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 654-01-34, submitted by Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, adopted on the first vote on 7 April 2016. The Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. The Commission supports the wording of the importers on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u3	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importers to the vote on the name of the Law. The Commission supports it. They voted 123 MPs: 116, against 2, abstention 5. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u4	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u5	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importers for § 1, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 116 MPs: for 103, against 6, abstention 7. Paragraph 1 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u6	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importers for § 2 supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 102, against 4, abstention 9. Paragraph 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u8	"Transitional provisions." The Commission does not support the wording of the importers and proposes the following version for the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the section "Concluding provision" as it does not support the text of the importers. I shall put the Commission's version to the vote. Vote 110 MPs: 97 against 6, abstention 7. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u10	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u11	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importers for § 3, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 102, against 8, abstention 8. Paragraph 3 has been adopted and the Bill has also been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAWICAL PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED ARAB AIR MIRIES BETWEEN AND THEIR EVENTS. The bill is under number 602-02-14. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. For the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, please come in, Mr. Valkov. The other report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 April 2016, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories was discussed, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mr. Ginev, who pointed out that the Agreement will replace the existing, concluded on 29 November 1989 in Sofia, thus updating the legal basis of bilateral cooperation in the field of air transport in terms of changes in the current stage of development of relations. In addition, part of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from its membership in the European Union will be fulfilled to align bilateral aviation contracts with EU law. The Agreement also contains the necessary legal conditions for the permanent and mutually beneficial operation of regular international air lines under the current conditions of international standards for technical safety, security and economic efficiency. The agreement also includes a set of legal situations providing carriers and greater market access opportunities, the implementation of which will also have a positive effect in terms of reducing the restrictions on routes, increasing transport capacity and frequency, the flexibility in pricing, the overall reduction in operating costs, opportunities to co-operate between carriers on the basis of market agreements and business rules, cross-border capital raising and overall stimulating the development of production, financial and tourism sectors of the economy. This set of rights will contribute to increasing the number of passengers and cargoes, reducing the prices of airline tickets by lines of real competition, improving passenger service, increasing revenues in air transport infrastructure, stimulating the tourism sector and extending cultural, political and scientific educational links between the countries. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the people's representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u14	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At its meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602 02 14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Mikhail Zahariev The bill was presented by Mrs Trenkova, who pointed out that the Agreement replaces the existing agreement of 29 November 1989 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates and updates the legal basis of bilateral cooperation in the field of air transport and aims at the same time to align national aviation legislation with the requirements of European legislation. The ratification of the Agreement provides for the development of joint products and better service for passengers and customers between the two parties, as well as an increase in the efficiency and profitability of air connections. The changes are linked to stimulating the development of production, financial and tourism sectors, by increasing the number of passengers and freight, promoting competition and reducing airline ticket prices, improving air transport services and expanding cultural, political and scientific links between the two countries. The Agreement regulates the exchange of information and cooperation of the two States to provide mutual assistance in preventing and countering acts aimed at the illegal capture of civil aircraft, illegal actions against their safety, passenger security, crew, airports and air navigation facilities, and any threat to aviation security. The ratification of the Agreement and the supplementary arrangement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution. As a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for abstention and non-restraint, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. By order of the President of the National Assembly, the bill is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. We do not have a report submitted by the Foreign Policy Committee. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am extremely uncomfortable to propose a procedure for delaying this vote, as I hold in my hand the last issue of the authoritative magazine "Economist" - its Bulgarian edition of April 22nd this year, in which, on the cover, as you can see, it is written that the Arab triangle for the Bulgarian weapon, the official export of Bulgarian weapons is mainly for Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, which are main supporters of the rebels or to say it to the terrorists in Syria, as well as for the civil war in Yemen. What are the facts in this publication, I stress in the "Economist" who are asking me to propose that this decision be postponed until Minister Moskovski appears in the Transport Commission and gives full assurance that the cargo aviation of the United Arab Emirates, in this case Abu Dhabi, and Abu Dhabi is the greatest emirate in the United Arab Emirates, does not transport Bulgarian weapons to Syria and the civil war in Yemen. What are the facts in this publication, in which you can see for yourself if you buy from the kiosks across the street this magazine, I repeat from April 22, 2016? [[(Comments from GERB:]] Please don't interrupt me. I bring out facts, and I don't make qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u17	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u18	According to the Interdepartmental Commission's report, this publication said that "the export control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction," Bulgaria exported an armed production for 30 million dollars for Saudi Arabia a year and a half ago. This publication states that apparently Saudi Arabia, which is armed with the most modern F-16 aircraft and the most modern American weapon, does not buy Bulgarian AKs, Bulgarian light and heavy artillery for its armed forces, but apparently buys them, according to this publication, for something else, for someone else. This is Syria and Yemen. In fact, it is definitely said that this is right for them. And now, most importantly, in this publication, which makes me think that you should support my proposal to postpone this decision. In an investigation of its own, I quote from the....................... the British Investigative Reporting Network cited the traffic of flights from Sofia airport at the end of last year. First, the Saudi cargo flight company carried out about ten flights by landing at Sofia Airport, after which the cargo planes landed in the Saudi city of Tabuk....................... about 100 km from the Jordan border. What was on board is not clear, but the sudden appearance, according to this publication, of Saudi cargo aircraft coincides with the sudden increase of the approval for export of Bulgarian weapons to the Emirate. It's official approval. And now the most important thing. Once Saudi flights have stopped, cargo planes from Abu Dhabi began to arrive from Abu Dhabi and Airbus 330 and Boeing 777 with Abu Dhabi's cargo marking. They land in Sofia five times from the end of June to the middle of August 2015, in Burgas and in Sofia, and then take off, listen carefully, to the military base Al Dafra, located south of the capital of the Emirate. According to experts of the "Economist" this weapon is Bulgarian and with this company, with which you propose now to ratify the Air Relations Agreement, goes directly to the civil war in Yemen and to the conflict in Syria, directly into the hands of the terrorists! And now the most disturbing finding, but this, of course, is a comment, not a factology. The authors of this publication in "Economist" believe that the points to which the Bulgarian weapon potentially reaches are becoming quite dangerous, but the most dangerous is that it can go back and perhaps go back to Europe. Part of the attacks in Paris and Brussels are supposed to have taken place precisely with weapons and ammunition exported through this air company to the United Arab Emirates, in particular with Abu Dhabi's company. That is why I am making a procedural proposal to postpone this item on the agenda, Minister Moskovski to be invited to the Transport Commission and to give two guarantees: firstly, that what is being exported to............................... is not responding to the truth, and secondly that this company has so far, more precisely its cargo flights have not carried Bulgarian weapons to the United Arab Arab Emirates, in this particular case.................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is addressed to this gentleman, who instead of reading his own papers in the morning, comes out and bothers us with his articles.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u21	I'm asking for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u22	I think it is not appropriate to do this from the National Assembly stands. However, if it's possible, in his asshole, this gentleman will answer me: the weapon that is sold in the world, where, in which parts is sold for peaceful purposes? Is there such a thing? He explains to us that the weapon goes for military conflicts, and according to his report, this is something that no one surprises in this room. Rather, let us know some data, not from the Economist, but from the regular source of information, these are the KGB services for which he works. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u23	Please, no qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u24	To give us some more accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u25	Any other lines? There is another one from the National Representative Ivan Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Enchev, with this Agreement, we fulfil the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria, which stem from our membership in the European Union, to bring bilateral aviation contracts to the European Union's law, which has already made such an agreement with the United Arab Emirates. We simply ratify this agreement, which is an agreement between the European Community and the United Arab Emirates in air services, in force from 22 April 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u27	Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u28	Dear Mr. Enchev, what my colleague Valkov said is absolutely true that this is about ratification through the European Union. But since you have such an active civic position, please come to the Commission next time there are representatives of the Ministry to express your concerns and not here from the stands to speak populist and to attempt to insert some of these during the morning editions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u29	Mr. Enchev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u30	I don't know why you call populism exporting information from an authoritative source, referring to an official report by the Interdepartmental Commission for Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Furthermore, since 2013, the decision of the European Union, I apologise very much, but the civil war in Syria was at its beginning and for Yemen not to mention. We are talking about a completely new situation three years later, all the more so that according to this publication Bulgaria is specifically involved with the facts Facts that force us as a country that has been found to export illegal weapons to civil conflicts in Syria and Yemen. This is not a reporter's speech. This is a factual statement. So 2013 and 2016 are two completely different geopolitical situations. As far as the ridiculous claim of links with the KGB goes, I won't answer. I will only reply to Mr. Petrov that he is essentially defending international terrorism, because since for you, these facts, which are made in the Economist, do not matter at all and we have to export weapons to Yemen, and especially to the terrorists in the......................... the......................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Radio, GERB lines.]] Since there was a Mr. Andreev... Mr. Andreev, in a personal explanation of what the KGB has to do with the Economist and the facts presented?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u31	You!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u32	Once again, I propose that the Transport Commission examine these facts presented in the publication of the "Economist" to invite Minister Moskovski to this meeting and to disprove the information he has given. Otherwise, I will believe that the Bulgarian state officially tolerates arms exports for conflicts from which the European continent eventually suffers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u34	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u35	Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u36	I will make a personal explanation, even though I feel that Mr. Enchev is having a split mind right now. When he heard about the KGB, he got into some kind of a situation. [[Laughter at GERB.]] He said my name, but he was looking at the Patriotic Front, and I think he was thinking something about me right now, but that was an expression of his disparity of attention. Apparently, Mr. Enchev, when he hears about the KGB, there's something wrong with him inside. [[Laughter at GERB]] He's getting some worries. Otherwise he couldn't admit if he was such that he was, because there, you know, he never confessed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u37	And how are you affected by this, Mr. Andreev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u38	For telling me my name. I just want to make the situation clear. She says my name, and she's looking at the Patriotic Front. For me, it's a split mind that's connected to the KGB. [[Greece and laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u39	And you're well-behaved. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Velizar Enchev to postpone the debate and vote on this point. They voted 111 MPs: 14 against 90, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please vote at first reading on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, signed on 25 January 2016 in Dubai. 110 MPs voted: 104 against 1, abstention 5. The bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016, was adopted in the first vote. You're welcome, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications proposes to be adopted in second vote Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev to examine the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The proposal is to examine and vote on the draft and the second vote. Please vote. Vote 118 MPs: 112 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, to report the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates Kingdom for air communications between and beyond their respective territories A single member. Rehabilitated the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates for air communications between and beyond their respective territories, signed on 25 January 2016 in Dubai. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territory, No 602 02 14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. Please vote. Vote 113 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 5. The draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories, No 602-02-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016, was adopted on a second vote and became a law. We will now suspend the meeting until 10:00 to get the colleagues from the Legal Committee ready, and we will continue with the Election Code. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u44	Colleagues, please take your seats. We're ready to move on. In plenary, the Additional Report by No 653-03-53 of 28 April 2016 is distributed. The sitting continues with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. First, I suggest we go back to § 82 by importer. I recall chronologically the development of the vote on this paragraph. In the extraordinary plenary session on 26 April 2016, Mr. Yordan Tsonev made an editorial addition to the Commission text. I read the words of Mr. Tsonev on the shorthand: that is why I propose, Madam President, editorially, if the text of the Commission is adopted under condition, to add: The Commission's proposal as an amendment was adopted in the vote, which reads: When I vote on Mr. Yordan Tsonev's editorial addition, his proposal is accepted. At the same time, there is a request for two procedures - Mr. Delchev and Mr. Kirilov. Kirilov says: " Madam President, I apologize to my colleague Delchev for rearranging it, but I would like to suggest that we not only reschedule, but also postpone the vote on this proposal for the next day. So let's think about it, let's rephrase the text Let us consider the extent to which this element can qualify as an agitation or not, time is needed. I remind you that this is happening somewhere around 1.10 a.m. at night. And then I say, "Colegi, we are currently in the hypothesis of collation of procedural rules and proposals. On the one hand, there is a request for a re-vote procedure. If I allow this procedure before Mr. Kirilov's procedure, his proposal to postpone this vote becomes meaningless. Therefore, I suggest that we postpone the vote first, and then you will retain your right to revote, Mr. Delchev. This proposal is put to the vote, we have postponed the vote, that is, only the re-voting on Mr. Tsonev's proposal, and that concludes the comments on this text from the extraordinary sitting on Tuesday. Last night, at the end of the meeting Mr. Kirilov, recalling that we have the possibility to re-vote, says: A proposal was made by colleague Yordan Tsonev to add a second sentence to the new para. 5, which we specified to be with the following content: "It is not an election campaign to perform religious rites and rituals. " The impreciseness in Mr. Kirilov's report is in two directions. First of all, Mr. Tsonev's proposal is plural: there is no election campaigning of religious rituals and thus ends his proposal, there is no concept of the rites. When we are in a re-voting procedure, there is no possibility for editorial additions to a proposal already properly made by a Member of the National Assembly, which is why the vote on a proposal which does not correspond to what the National Representative has made cannot produce action. We have not yet completed the re-voting procedure of Mr. Tsonev's proposal, as he has done, and therefore I am subject to re-voting, according to Mr. Delchev's request, Mr. Tsonev's proposal after the Commission's adopted text: This is the only thing that can be put to a re-vote, and I'm putting it to a re-vote to complete this procedure. Vote 151 MPs: 107 against 31, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I now put to the vote the general version of § 82, already with the vote on the Commission's proposal and the amendment adopted just now. Then the whole subparagraph will read: It is not an election campaign to perform religious rites. We vote. They voted 152 MPs: 117 against 6, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Kazak. CHetin KAKAK (DPS): Dear colleagues! Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to ask you the following question in the most responsible way: what is this document, entitled "Additional Report" with entry No 653-03-053 of 28 April 2016 to the Committee on Legal Affairs? I ask you this question because it is a direct consequence of another question when the Committee on Legal Affairs was meeting, when did it discuss these texts and vote them? We are currently being handed out a document called a supplementary report by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Neither I nor my colleagues from the DPS Parliamentary Group have been informed that there is a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs with an agenda and so on. We haven't been to a meeting like this. This report to us is a forgery! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u45	Dear Mr. Kazak, your question to me contained the answer. This is a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs submitted to the National Assembly with a corresponding number, which you correctly reproduced. The report shall contain signatures of Members of the National Assembly. And when this meeting was held, it became clear from the moment the report was submitted, as it was submitted at 10:32 p.m. and the meeting was before 10:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u46	There hasn't been a meeting like this!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u47	Mr. Kirilov, please offer us a report on which we will debate. [[Relations in DPS. People's representative Philip Popov wants the floor for procedure.]] Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u48	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am doing a procedure on how to conduct this report. You yourself said that the report was delivered at 10:00, but the regulations did not pass 24 hours. How come we're looking at it right now in plenary?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u49	That's for first reading, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u50	Plus, we haven't been notified either. The signatures show who they were on this Commission. The legal committee hasn't been together at all. There's no way on behalf of the Legal Committee that this document could come out!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u51	Mr. Popov, we are all aware that in the course of voting on the various parts of the Election Code, the general and special, with a decision of the plenary, there were texts that were postponed at the moment when they had the time for debate and voting. The postponement of these texts was for reasons of seeking agreement and an alternative proposal of editorials, which appeared in the main report. In such cases, it is not the first time that a committee responsible has presented us with further reports. This is the meaning of the additional report submitted. There's a word for Mr. Hamid in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u52	Dear Madam President, the last words with which Mr. Glauchev gave a break and interrupted the meeting were: Let the Legal Committee hold its meeting and decide. There hasn't been a meeting like this. Me and my colleagues used to go around asking where the Legal Committee meeting would be. I asked Mrs. Alexandrova, I asked Mr. Mitev, Mr. Kazak asked several times, Mr. Popov asked. What are these criminal meetings, Madam President? That wasn't even allowed by Mrs. Fidosova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u53	She was not president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u54	Procedure Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The colleagues who spoke before me were extremely right. Mr. Glauchev's last words were that the Legal Committee would hold its meeting. And I was walking around like the DPS colleagues because I didn't know where he was, so I finally went to Mr. Glauchev's office to find out where he was. It was held and I signed the relevant document. Everything was fine. Maybe you didn't show enough activity or you weren't interested. I was active, I went, I found Mr. Glauchev and I was involved. [[Loud noise and shouting in DPS. Proclaims: "Bravo!" in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u56	Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! All legal committee meetings are a complete farce! During the vote of the Election Code, six MPs were present, provided that the quorum was seven. We're talking about normal sessions that lasted 32 hours. What's happening today is an emancipation of this whole story. I was also looking for the Legal Commission because I wanted to listen. As a representative of the National Assembly, I have the right to attend. I also found out at the last minute that the meeting was actually in Mr. Glauchev's office. Who was there? Was there a quorum? Why aren't the others invited? Is that how you make a Code of Elections?! Therefore, fellow Members of the BSP and the DPS, I suggest that we refer to the Constitutional Court and the conduct of the Legal Commission. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB]] Because some people with an oral order from six MPs cannot vote with six votes, the other to vote with five votes, the third to vote with three votes and finally with 17 votes, you see, they accepted the Election Code, provided six people were present. Is that how you do the Election Code? Is that the representation of the people?! Thank you. [[Strong noise in GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u58	Colleague Kadiev, the final editorials of the texts are carried out by the plenary staff of the National Assembly. In the last sittings, there are not one and two cases in which the committee's proposals are not supported by the House. [[The People's Representatives Chetin Kazak and Daniel Kirilov want the floor.]] What do you want, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u59	I have to take this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u60	Let's say Mr. Kazak and I'll give you a chance to answer. [[(Reply from GERB: No Chetin Kazak once took the floor!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, this meeting is becoming a complete farce! An additional report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has not, in fact, met with the necessary quorum, has not been scheduled for a meeting, has not taken place at a designated place and time. Under the report presented to us, there are five signatures. This in itself is proof that there was no quorum at all. In order to give you the opportunity to get out of this messy situation, I ask the DPS Parliamentary Group for half an hour's rest. [[Loud noise and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u62	I'll proceed by Mr. Kazak's request after we hear Mr. Kirilov's explanation. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u63	Honourable Madam President, Honourable... [[Noise, cheer and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u64	Colleagues, please listen to those in the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give the following explanation for the preparation and signature of the report. There was no legal committee meeting. [[(Sighs:) A-a-a-a-ah?♪ ♪ ♪ Noise, lines ♪]] There was no meeting of the Legal Commission! This report has been prepared for your convenience. Please accept [[speaking indistinctly]] , please accept the editorials are for clarity. If you object to this report, on this document, I suggest that we read on the main report and the respective MPs, we make editorial proposals in the course of reading. Not for the first time, especially when it is at second reading, especially when texts have been postponed because of disputes and their processing is necessary, it was not for the first time that committees had to meet in the framework of a break in plenary, as was in this case. The very change in the agenda was with the opportunity to still be able to visualize texts that you can track and be able to comply with. Again, no problem. You have a previous report on the same provisions. I was going to withdraw it. Now I will not withdraw it, I will not withdraw either the previous or the basic in these provisions, but we will read three reports, which will load plenary time inevitably with additional time to clarify the specific texts. As you wish. [[Noise, lines.]] If the President gives a recess, I shall use the stands to invite all members of the Legal Committee to a meeting during this recess. As has been pointed out here, I have also looked for witnesses to my majority of MPs, in the previous rest I also sought members to invite them, to show them, and to comment. Especially for colleague Philip Popov. I'm stating that we spoke to him twice on the phone and he knew very well where. He said: we write texts in our group. He had a chance to come, he knew where he was.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] There is no personal explanation in the procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts.]] There's been a request made by procedure. [[A storm reaction from DPS and BSP LB.]] Please take your seats! [[(Voices from DPS and BSP LB:]] There's been a procedure, a procedural request from Mr. Kazak. I cannot respect this request, as it has not been one hour since the meeting was resumed. After hearing Mr. Kirilov that there was no real meeting of the Legal Commission [[Sighs]] , we are continuing the work on the main report, as tabled by the Commission. Please calm down! We're working on the main report. Mr. Andonov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u67	Dear colleagues, when you take the procedure, take it in your turn. Take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u68	I've requested my procedure before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u69	Not in the right way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u70	Please don't fight from the ground up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u71	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure to make it clear to my fellow Members that there is a serious military presence in this House. This isn't a coup. At the invitation of the women from GERB are the most beautiful part of the Bulgarian army. These are the women in the Bulgarian Army, and I call, Madam President, to respect and applaud them to welcome the ladies with our welcome! [[(The People's Representatives are up. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u72	Mr. Andonov, I'll correct you. The Women with Pagons of the Army are at the invitation of all women MPs from all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Tell me the procedure, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u73	Madam President, we are again calling on you to schedule a break, as there have been two radically opposing opinions of MPs from the ruling majority. Firstly, a colleague of mine spoke and said that he had wandered the corridors and ended up in the office of the Vice-President of the National Assembly in the course of a meeting of the Legal Commission. Secondly, another colleague of mine in the ruling majority spoke and said that no such committee has actually been held. I'd like to address you from this stand, Madam President! The National Assembly is the most public body in the country. We are not a secret service, nor are we DANS, nor are we DGBOPs to conduct secret events, to search for each other and to conduct our SRS. I beg you very much to enter your role and as you have been worthy and honorable so far, schedule a new holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u74	Procedure? [[People representatives Manol Genov and Philip Popov want the floor for procedure.]] Which one of you? Final procedure. [[Heckling]] I have to respond to so many demands. I still have something to say. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u75	Honourable Members, Madam President! I ask you to remove Mr. Emil Dimitrov from this meeting because he misled the MPs. He frankly lied about the Commission meeting. We heard from Mr. Kirilov that there wasn't. Take it off, give the coworker a break so they can understand whether or not there was a meeting. [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u76	Mr. Genov! [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] Disciplinary measures with regard to Members of Parliament under our Rules can only be imposed in this Chamber by me or my colleague from the alternates in charge of the plenary when we have a personal perception of an act qualifying under our Rules as inadmissible. So I have no way of fulfilling your offer. Mr. Popov last in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We are adopting an extremely important regulatory act. The way it is being adopted and therefore my address is to you, Madam President, the way it is being adopted in plenary here has just polished a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u78	Why didn't you come?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u79	I'll give you an answer, Mr. Kirilov. One lie and one speculation. We have a document with an entry number on which it is written that there has been a meeting of the Legal Committee exiting from the Legal Committee and at the same time we have acknowledged in plenary that there have been no meetings of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u80	There's no meeting anywhere!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u81	He's from the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u82	Well, from the Legal Commission, it's coming out. I'm the chair of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u83	The Legal Committee shall take its decisions after a meeting. Such a meeting has not taken place. You're right, colleague Kirilov, we really had this conversation with you. However, I asked you: will we have a meeting of the Legal Commission? What did you say to me: no, the format is not a meeting of the Legal Commission. Is that right? That's right! [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Please pay attention! This is an extremely important act and it cannot be adopted in such a ridiculous way. And here the entire procedure is shown in all the thousands of agreements and agreements on the adoption of these amendments to the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u84	Mr. Grozdan Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, this meeting is becoming not a farce, but indeed a laughing stock. The whole acceptance of this Code is such a laughingstock. The election code can't be done in such a tense environment, people can be chased down the halls. In addition, Mrs. Tsacheva, my speech is aimed at the way you are leading this meeting. There can be no rest at 10:00 in violation of all the rules, that is to say a break in violation of the Assembly's Rules, and now, when a legitimate rest is requested, you can say that from the anti-law done with the previous rest, they cannot now derive their rights. If you need to discuss something calm, let us discuss calmly, because a violation that you have already done actually serves as an obstacle to giving the right time off at the request of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u86	Colleagues, we have two alternatives: after Mr. Kirilov's explanation, the possibility is to proceed on the main report. I don't hear any reaction from the House on this proposal. I accept that we are about to continue on the basic report. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a reaction from the gym. Due to noise in the Chamber, but not on the basis of a request from a parliamentary group, due to a disturbance in the Chamber, we interrupt for 30 minutes. [[Noise and cheering.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u87	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. A statement on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u88	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We are back in front of May Day of Labour and International Workers' Solidarity. On May 1, 1886, in the United States, trade unions organised a mass national strike involving over 300,000 workers from across the country requesting the introduction of an 8-hour working day. The biggest demonstrations in Chicago. In the next few days, the police and private guards are shooting at them. On May 4th, a protest against violence was initiated, resulting in death and injuries. This gives a reason for several anarchists to be condemned, some of them to death. Years later they were justified as innocent. On their monument today are written the last words of one of them: a day will come! Whether because of socialist idea expansion insurance or because Americans have already had a similar holiday in Canada and the United States nowadays, Labour Day is celebrated the first Monday of September. In 1889 in Paris, the Second Socialist International, on a proposal from the American delegation, adopted a resolution to celebrate May 1. In the coming years, these notes have grown in Europe and in America. In Bulgaria, the first demonstrations on May 1st were in the early 1990s, fully up-to-date with the working and union movements in Europe. They pass under the leadership of the Socialists. The impact of these events in the coming decades is so great that on the eve of May 1, 1936, the government made an unsuccessful attempt to put the holiday under control by announcing the International Day of Workers' Solidarity as a patronage holiday of the National Bulgarian Workers' Party. The day entered the official calendar of Bulgaria in 1939. In the late 20s, the German government banned demonstrations on May 1st, but communists did not comply with this ban. In the subsequent clashes, dozens of demonstrators were killed. The rift between the Social Democrats and the Communists leads to the Bloody May, which opens up a place in the power of the Nazis. It is a lesson that the division of those involved in labor gives way to other dangerous forces. After the decades of official celebrations on May 1st in Bulgaria, now, under the conditions of mass violations of labour and social rights, of increased exploitation, May 1st is not only a holiday, but also an occasion for protests in defence of labor. In recent years Bulgaria has established itself first in the European Union on poverty among young people, poverty among pre-retirement workers, poverty among pensioners - over 1 million and 200,000 of them live below the poverty line, and the most working poor. About half a million are already working poor. Unemployment, despite a reduction, remains within 10%. About half of the Bulgarian population lives in poverty or at risk of poverty. One in five Bulgarians is relatively poor, that is to say he is experiencing 60 percent of the average national income per person. Once again, the problems for the duration of the working day, for the inter-week rest, for working conditions, for the protection of the lives and health of workers are up-to-date. Some of them die in their jobs. Bulgaria has a high share of gray economy and incompletely declared and paid work. The work operation in Bulgaria is among the main reasons for deepening poverty and inequality, for the great emigration of people of working age. Notice, the gross domestic product per capita at paritative prices in Bulgaria is 2.4 times lower than the average of the Eurozone and the average salary is 4.8 times lower. This should be a serious call to the Bulgarian capital to acquire a European look and to ensure a higher pay of labor in short term. This is also a call to the state for much more effective control and much greater empathy in economic life. We therefore insist on changing the model of distribution of national income and catching up on wages for labour productivity. Unequivalence in the world today reaches unparalleled, dangerous proportions. One percent of the population literally opposes the other 99%, less than 100 people have wealth as much as half of the entire population on the planet. We want a decent life through decent work. Young people want not only to survive but to find opportunities for prosperity and development in Bulgaria. So today, again with the words of Georgi Kirkov, we have to make our mutual song: Another song to sing a song, a song of labor! Happy May 1st! Happy great day! [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines.]] Madam President, despite the occasion that May 1st gives us, I am forced to conclude the declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group with what happened before the break in plenary. [[Noise and lines.]] It's no longer without precedent. We remember the time when, in the previous management term of GERB, laws were forged. At the time, however, it was about a separate legislative text which followed the resignations of the President and Vice-President of two Standing Committees. The forgery that has been presented to us as a Commission report categorically raises the question of our request for resignation by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. [[Applause from BSP LB. Claps by DPS.]] I have been President of this Commission, I know how great its responsibilities are, how severe its duties are, and that it should be an example to the other authorities of Parliament, to act in accordance with the Rules of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u90	I didn't graduate, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u91	You're already out of the declaration procedure. You mix two incompatible things with the bright holidays ahead of us with organizational activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u92	No, no... I mix because I do not have a limit in the declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group on how many topics to address, since they do not concern the content of the issues discussed. [[Noise and lines.]] Therefore, Madam President, I also call on the GERB Parliamentary Group to take appropriate political action to remove Mr Kirilov as President of this Commission. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We are addressing the head of the Political Party GERB, since in other circumstances he has shown such determination and cancelled and does not impose decisions on the parliamentary group, too, to take regard of the issue. And finally, I ask the question: is this one called....... is not a real document which is presented and on the basis of which the National Assembly must form its will? What honest and free elections are you talking about when the changes to the Law itself, which are being discussed and adopted, are the result of a false report? This can only produce false and dishonest choices. [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Therefore, our parliamentary group will be firm and will insist politically on the necessary action on this issue. And these precedents, to fully present false reports, are the first time in the Bulgarian National Assembly for at least the last 25 years and they bear the mark of GERB. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps by BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u93	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Kazak has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! In the Passion Week among the sea of political passions and malice, honourable Members, I call you on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group to a small island of spirituality, and I would like to address all Christians Bulgarian citizens on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group with a greeting on the occasion of the coming brightest feast for Christians. I want to wish them peace, health, happiness and their families, many, many joys and may peace, may humility, may goodness in our souls prevail over malice, hatred, and envy! Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. A good start after the meeting was resumed. On behalf of all Orthodox Christians in this House, thank you for your congratulations on behalf of your parliamentary group. Mr. Hamid, just don't spoil the good mood now. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, in the name of the previous statement on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I would like to continue the good tone and propose to the Members of Parliament that the debate and vote be postponed after the break. Let us, with this dark-blown election code, not spoil the bright holiday of our colleagues. [[Applause from DPS.]] Let all Christians have the opportunity to go home to the districts, to celebrate among their loved ones, because with today we are ruining the celebration not only of the Members of the National Assembly, but of the entire Bulgarian people, because hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions of Bulgarian citizens outside the country, when they understand what is voted, their holiday will really be ruined. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u97	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to postpone the debate on our agenda for the next sitting. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 163 MPs: 66, against 74, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak. There's movement in the hall, new colleagues came in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u98	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a procedural proposal to re-vote. You quite rightly noticed that there is movement in the room. There are colleagues who have just entered and failed to vote, and this will give you one last chance, as we have said, of kindness to prevail over malice. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u99	Revoting, coworkers. Vote 172 MPs: for 67, against 83, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Let's move on. Colleagues, according to art. 76, para. 1 of our Rules of Procedure, bills together with the reasons and report of the committee responsible must be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting in which they will be examined. This rule is categorically imperative with regard to the first vote reports. Second sentence: The same term, if the National Assembly does not decide otherwise, shall also apply for consideration of the bills for the second vote. And since there was a dispute before the interruption that this 24-hour period has not expired, I hereby propose to your vote the possibility given to us by our Rules, if supported by the plenary, that this 24-hour period should not be respected, which is why I propose that we consider the Additional Report, after a meeting of the Legal Committee has already been held, but in order to clear all possible disputes, the House decide whether to look at it or not. Inverse opinion Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! What you have proposed, Madam President, is a procedural proposal that can't be voted on because the time limit couldn't have expired at the moment to sanitize it. There had to be a preliminary decision of the National Assembly in order not to comply with this deadline. Secondly, we are not given the report, which you believe has been adopted by the Legal Committee, but a false report has been issued, which, despite all internal rules and legal procedures, has been tried to be voted on before the break. Which report will we vote on at the moment the false report which has been handed out to us absolutely wrong and arbitrary, or some report which, in your opinion, has been adopted by the Legal Commission, albeit in violation of all procedural rules? We therefore left the Legal Commission because you tried with a farce, with an absurd procedure, despite the Constitution and internal rules of the National Assembly to legitimize something that is, directly put, in the grossest violation and even crime. [[Voice of GERB and RB.]] Don't yell at me! A document has been made that is untrue! An author who does not exist has been signed by a non-existent meeting. So please, let the MPs think again. This procedural proposal is against any rule of law. We can only take it before some time goes by and, again, we say, we don't have an object to look at. There is no report which has been adopted by the Commission and which has been distributed to the Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u101	On the basis of art. 76, para. 1 sentence 2 I suggest to the National Assembly that we consider the additional report [[(Relations from BSP and DPS: There is no such!]] from the meeting of the Legal Commission which has just ended [[BSP LB lines: "Which number?"]] in this plenary session, although the 24 hours have not expired [[(BSP LB and DPS lines:]] , which are a general-imperative ban on the first vote. Vote 160 MPs: 106, against 51, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. To re-vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u102	Thank you. Madam President, I ask for a re-voting procedure and I urge you to clarify in plenary what is the number of the report that is being voted on at the moment! Because we don't know. There is some report, the colleague explained what this report is and there is no subsequent report after the meeting of the Legal Committee, which was convened at twelve and five, not at twelve to five.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u103	The qualifications that your colleague here handed out regarding the document imported to the Ministry are of the competence of other institutions that can tell if it is a fake, if it is not a fake. Colleague lawyers, I am not exactly comfortable with lawyers Mr. Georgiev and Mr. Pavlov to deal with such concepts. [[Strong yelling and banging at banks from BSP LB and DS: "Which number?']]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u104	Which report are we going to review?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u105	The one who says the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u106	You tell us what the plenary votes! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u107	Whatever we want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u108	Vote 166 MPs: 111, against 53, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, you yourself have stated that this false document will be transmitted to the relevant institutions so that the relevant investigation can be carried out and then to say whether it is real or not. If so, why consider a document that is not yet clear whether it is real or not? You've made a mistake, colleagues. We've been trying to help you fix yourself. At the moment, some actors from the play "Golemanov" are calling that you will work as you want. We can see you're doing it. Please! Another 15 minutes of time, you made the Commission, you made the meeting, you submitted your report by the Commission to look at it here! Don't be stubborn! You can't do that with stubborn politics, guys! We don't think anything bad of you. If we go on this report, if you accept everything you have decided and say you will accept it, you give a document in the hands of the protesters to attack you that you are really making an election document for GERB and the Patriot Front. Please be reasonable!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u110	Dear Mr. Atalay, after the meeting of the Legal Committee, I am informed that the additional report submitted earlier today by the Legal Commission with an I.D. No 653-03-03 of 28 April 2016...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u111	What number?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u112	653-03-53...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u113	He himself said that there is no such document!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u114	From 28 April 2016 [[noise and banging on banks from BSP LB and DPS]] has been the subject of a debate from the meeting of the Legal Committee and the Legal Committee with a vote has supported this report. Is that right, colleagues from the Legal Commission? That's right. We have adopted a decision by which we have overcome the obstacle under our Rules, which refers to a specific time limit before the debate on the report in this House. This procedural condition has been overcome and we are able to continue working on this report. [[BSP LB noise, noise and lines from DPS.]] I'm expecting a rapporteur. In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! We have witnessed that since the work on this Election Code, everything has been going on in violations. But the last thing that's allowed, Madam President, is your violation. I'd like to quote the Rules. In the Additional Provisions, Paragraph 7 states that the distribution of all the projects, documents and other materials necessary to the Members of the National Assembly for their work in the Chamber shall be carried out by means of official e-mail. The day and hour of distribution shall be the day and time at which they are sent. The President of the National Assembly may order, if necessary, the distribution of the materials and paper in plenary during a plenary session or in parliamentary groups. What we have just received is a report from the Legal Committee, so-called report, because the Legal Commission has not been in session. [[Noise and lines.]] This is in recognition of the Chair of the Legal Commission. If the Commission has not met, there is a report. In this report with an I.D. No. 653-03-53 is recorded that it was submitted at 10.38 pm. At the moment what we voted, Madam President, to consider an additional report, first of all, it is not distributed, it is not known whether there is... [[Excessive noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u116	And where do you get his number and show it to the entire Chamber if it's not distributed to you? [[Loud noise, laughter and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u117	We were handed out before the break report No. 653-03-53 with an entry number of 10.38 hours. Here it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u118	10:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u119	10:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u120	Small is the format....10.32 h., on mine, the large format writes.10.32 h.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u121	Okay, 10:32 p.m. I take it you don't see it well on the xerocope. [[Noise and lines.]] In this situation, tell me by what we voted on, what are we looking at? What are we looking at? [[Single applause from the DPS. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u122	Mr. Kadyev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u123	Madam President, honourable Members! I understand we're all in a hurry for the holiday. [[GERB lines]] Only that we cannot, by violating the regulations and by false reports, come to good intentions. Let me remind you that two days ago, a deputy mayor of Sofia left because of two liters of gas that went out of business in the company car until I didn't know where. We released her yesterday, as you all said, without guilt. Now here, the Chair of the Legal Committee gives us a report, which says: "A Legal Commission" on which he writes: "The Committee supports or does not support the proposal and then stands up and says: "Well, there was no Commission." Fake report from everywhere! Not to mention that it is a fake and the main report because 5-6 people voted each with the authority of 5-6 others. This whole farce isn't about some ordinary law, it's about the Election Code, which tomorrow will determine who the next government will be. Is this how the Election Code is adopted? Is this the way in Bulgaria to pass laws? The resignation of the President of the Legal Commission is absolutely mandatory. Because it's not about two liters of gasoline, it's about false reports and fraud of all MPs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u124	Honourable Members, the amendments to each draft shall take place with a decision of the plenary of the National Assembly after the vote of all Members of the National Assembly in plenary. I suggest we stop with emotional qualifications. [[(Shouts from BSP and DPS: ……]] of the type of fake and so on, because the decisions are not of the relevant committee, but of the plenary, as the result in the vote to be held shows. Mr. Ermenkov! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u125	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and will speak in the manner of conduct, because you are currently trying to mislead the National Assembly with something that cannot happen. It cannot and there is no way that a report which has not been adopted by a committee can be submitted and entered before this committee has been in session. It is a document that you are proposing to us to vote on without this document having any legal value. It was entered at 10:32 p.m., as you said, the Commission then gathered and met. At least from the best man's shame let him make a report at this meeting, enter it and then we look at it, because what you are offering us to consider does not exist in legal peace as such. [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u126	Procedure in the manner of conduct...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u127	Madam President, colleagues! I will not share how surprised I am that the Commission has received this report at the beginning of its meeting, but I cannot help but express my surprise at your statement that by voting in plenary we can violate the Constitution, we can violate the laws, we can even overcome violations of the Rules of Procedure. With one vote, this can be legalized and become legal. Yeah, but no! Dear colleagues, smaller partners of the government! A call.. think about why is it rushing before Easter? Why is there a hurry, why don't you take the time to think and look at the texts? Is this in your favor? Or he's coming back with all his beauty! Think hard!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u128	Mr. Anastasov, I strongly object to what you have said, referring to my speech before this, in no way, ever, until now, nor will you hear from me a sentence that, by voting in the Chamber, we can illegally amend Constitution, Law or Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u129	What's this? What's this? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u130	Listen carefully, and don't talk in pairs, threes and so on, when spoken out of the microphone of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] What do you want, Mr. Karadaye? You're just knocking on the bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u131	My colleagues are screaming and I couldn't hear you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u132	Mr. Kirilov, we're listening. [[BSP's beating on banks and shouting: resignation, resignation, resignation.]] Colleagues! Colleagues! [[(SCREAMS: (SCREAMS) (SCREAMS:)]] I urge you to refrain from the emotions you are exhibiting right now. [[BSP and DPS banks rumbling and calls from BSP - resignation, resignation, resignation and resignation.]] I interrupt the plenary session. I'm calling an extraordinary chairman's council. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to begin? Honourable Members of Parliament, in the minutes in which I announced an interruption, at the extraordinary meeting of the Conference of Presidents, we agreed that the report of the Legal Committee, which has already been done, should be submitted with a new entry number. You are currently being handed out on paper an additional report with an I.V. No 653-03-54 of 28 April 2016 We have agreed to continue the meeting on this report today, but I will again allow myself to make a proposal to overcome the provision of art. 76, para. 1, to vote on an opportunity before the 24-hour report expires. No. 653-03-54 to be discussed and voted. We vote, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u134	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u135	We're in voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: 99, against 31, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, come in. [[Noise and cheering from BSP LB, DPS and Attack.]] Colleagues, please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u136	Mrs. Chairman! [[Replying and banging on the banks of BSP LB, DPS and attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u137	Colleagues, you do know that there are texts in the Rules to hinder work and not give us the opportunity to continue? [[People representatives Manol Genov and Stanislav Anastasov want the floor.]] Figure out which one goes first. Can I at the same time give them both the floor? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u138	Madam President, let's not go on with the goonsuratlaka. It was seen that Mr. Kirilov cast enough doubt on colleagues with his actions with this report, with that report, with a number, no number. If you really want to have a meaningful debate here on this platform, let one of the Vice-Presidents read the report so that there is no riot, as you say, and give a break because the Bulgarian Parliament thanks to such actions is sufficiently compromised among the Bulgarian citizens. Do not continue this way with Mr. Kirilov's participation in the proposed texts of the report to further strengthen the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u139	Mr. Genov, just one objection to your proposal. Not only vice-presidents, but members of the Legal Committee can report to us. I suggest Mr. Philip Popov or Mr. Chavdar Georgiev report. [[(Applause and lines: "Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u140	It's a counterproposal. Thank you for the proposal, Madam President, but it is the government's responsibility to finish up the mess they've made. Moreover, our colleague Chavdar Georgiev and I strongly refuse to participate and be part of this farce.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u141	Then why do you object to Mr. Daniel Kirilov leading? You're blaming him, aren't you? Let him finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u142	This farce of the Commission continues here and in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u143	You guys are contradicting each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u144	There are members of the Legal Commission who are from the ruling coalition. Thank you. (Scanded: De-si, De-si!)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u145	Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u146	Madam President, I think it would have been right for you to give me the procedure before the vote so I wouldn't want a re-voting now. Here, in myself, I keep two identical reports.. one with a signature 53, the other with a signature 54. They have the exact same content. One was absolutely fine, we voted against the rules of procedure for Parliament's work. Now the new guy's gonna vote again, 'cause he's gonna be okay, too. Is there a third report with the same content in half an hour?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u147	Colleagues, has your group leadership not informed you of what the extraordinary Chairmanial Council was about, and what have we specified?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Then we'll continue the dialogue. I want a re-vote procedure and explain to me why we are voting on the same two reports several times. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u149	Mr. Tsvetanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just minutes ago, the extraordinary Presidency Council, attended by representatives of all parliamentary groups, ended. I am convinced that everyone who participates in the Presidential Council takes the responsibility to reduce everything that has been commented on to the relevant parliamentary group and avoid the confrontation that I see some wish to maintain. Honourable Members, anyone with a right to vote may express his position. This was the principle position we discussed at the Conference of Presidents. Please, let us not turn parliament into a speech room and lower the authority of this institution. That is why this extraordinary Presidency Council is being held, so it was attended by all parliamentary groups to work, to be fruitful and to have respect for the work of each MP. Because Daniel Kirilov's presidency as head of the Legal Commission is not his own decision, but based on all the talks held over the last few days. Why should we create such tension and focus such negative energy on one person? What do you achieve, representatives of BSP left Bulgaria? What are you accomplishing?! The only thing that can be achieved is a confrontation that is absolutely unnecessary in relation to what we need to finalise today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u151	Procedure Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, of course, that the leadership of the group and the party Mr. Karadayi informed the group of what happened at the Conference of Presidents. Let us ask, however, because you say that there should be normality in the adoption of the Law and the continuation of the work on it, what is normal in this Law?! Exactly how many reports did you make on it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u153	And your proposal, which we supported, Mr. Tsonev, a little earlier today, is insane?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u154	My offer has been postponed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u155	On the contrary, we voted this morning.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u156	No, no, you postponed it yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u157	We voted this morning.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u158	Yes, I know you voted this morning, but it was done as per procedure. I'm asking how many more texts came in? Does the code look like it's about to come out...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u159	Tell me what the procedure is!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u160	Yeah, I'll tell you what the procedure is. I'm saying the motive right now. My time is running, not yours, I have two minutes. If we compare what will come out today with the report that came in for second reading, believe me, half is different. Where are these procedures, which rules?! So there's nothing normal, normal is the reaction you're hearing right now. It's an insane adoption of laws that's insane. It's the reaction. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u161	What do you suggest? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u162	We made an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u163	I did, too, and my colleagues took a stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u164	Paragraph 6. [[Troping on banks from BSP LB and DPS.]] Colleagues, I want much more from you, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u165	At least give him a chance to say two words, he won't report the report. [[Banging on banks continues.]] Mr. Karadaye, I don't doubt your power that you have it physically and you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u166	... a fellow Vice-President to perform this reading before you. I deliberately refrain from taking an opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u167	Mr. Chetin Kazak, Vice-President, to ensure that everything is transparent and... [[Noise and replica by BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u168	You have coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u169	Since this is in the power of the Chair of the Legal Commission, Mr. Kirilov, are you proposing anyone? [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u170	I would like, in view of pluralism and in view of the circumstances, Mr. Kazak to take over the reading of the proposals if he agrees, but I sincerely ask the Vice-President of the Legal Commission, Atanasova, to take part in this reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u171	On the first offer, you're taking a reprieve, Mr. Kazak, am I to understand?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u172	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u173	Because he doesn't take responsibility, colleagues, for that. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u174	Thank you, Madam President, for the confidence you have in me, but this report, in particular, this Draft Amendment to the Election Code, is important enough and it is necessary for the ruling majority to have full responsibility for its content. I once again thank you for the confidence, but there is another Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs from the Political Party GERB. Recently, your leader found GERB's heavy artillery. [[Radio.]] She can handle this assignment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u175	Oh, it's been heavy artillery for a long time. Mrs. Atanasova, come on in and let's get to work. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u176	Additional report to IC report No 653-03-49. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 words on the basis of the aggregated data under art. 14 (s) shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u177	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u178	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. [[Replications and banging on the bank by MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u179	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u180	In the Committee on Legal Affairs... [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u181	Mr. Mihov, don't call from the gym! [[Heckling]] Order, please! Excuse me, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u182	Is there order in the room, is there silence? Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the Legal Committee a moment ago, I put the principle question that the two paragraphs we are about to vote on at the beginning of this additional report, if adopted, will come into clear and blatant contradiction with the text previously voted by us in § 7 on the main report in which all of you, the honourable representatives of the ruling majority, adopted the proposal of the Patriotic Front to unconditionally prohibit the opening of sections abroad, outside the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have voted on a text which states that it is not allowed to be written, that is to say, a ban............................................................................................... Now, without canceling this text, you are offering us § 6 and § 7 in which you are suddenly opening loopholes and making some arrangements, you are making some minimal possibilities for revealing such sections. In this way, you condemn the Election Code to contain inside conflicting texts, on the one hand, a text which categorically prohibits, on the other hand, texts that they allow. In order to correct this internal contradiction, because each Law must be upheld from a legal point of view, there are far-reaching contradictions in it, there must be consistency between its texts, so I call you and I suggest that we go back and reschedule § 7, that is to say, art. 11 of the Election Code, and to reject the text that you adopted in a previous meeting on the absolute prohibition of revealing sections outside diplomatic and consular offices. First, this text must be repealed, then proceed to the discussion and vote on these proposals here. Specially under § 6 is absolutely unacceptable to remove the reference to art. 14, since in any case, even in this report you propose to have certain criteria, for example, over 1 million inhabitants. This is information to be provided by the designated authorities, this is data to be taken into account. So you cannot accept this § 6 in this form. Once again, we need to reword § 7, Article 7. 11 to reject the absolute prohibition imposed by the Patriotic Front to open sections outside diplomatic and consular offices and then proceed to the discussion of these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u183	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u184	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure to extend the time to vote on the texts of the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u185	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, nothing urgent requires the adoption of this dark and worst election code in the history of Bulgaria. There's nothing urgent. Let's give people a chance to have a nice holiday. Let us not spoil their feast for them and for all of you in this Chamber. I'm making a reverse offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u187	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 151 MPs: 106, against 42, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted and we are working until the adoption of the bill. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to be very brief, but this text gives me the opportunity to illustrate what I just said. How did the report on this subject come to Parliament? We're talking about this text. In the original version, the Commission accepts Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal only in diplomatic representations. After a new report was adopted in the Chamber, in which in Transitional and Final Rules the Council of Ministers is entitled to 50 in other countries. Now a third option, in cities over 1 million. There hasn't been such a precedent in the entire history of legislation here since the 1990s. Should I remind you that even the Prime Minister had to come to this building twice to correct texts in order to accept hypotheses in order to do something under this Law? Perhaps the lawyers can clarify, I do not understand how could there be a new text in the body of the Law, in the basic text, not in the diplomatic text, how could there be a new text in the Transitional and Final Rules that makes this prohibition meaningless? He's right, Mr. Kazak when he says that text needs to be canceled in order for another text like the one you're proposing to enter. It is not only this example, if we start text by text you will see that the basic hypotheses of the Law have undergone several editorials radically opposite each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u189	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday or the other day, after so many reports, one gets confused, we adopted a categorically imperative text that says: Now you are creating new texts here, new proposals that are in absolute contradiction and coliseum with already adopted text! Based on what? They go beyond the general spirit, beyond the meaning of a text already adopted at first and second votes! How many times do we have to rewrite the same text? Why? At second reading, we have the possibility of voting, then we have the possibility of revoting. This procedure has been carried out, it has been terminated, it has been adopted as is the text. Now, once again, on three, on four, on five readings, we return to the beginning of the bill through the Transitional and Final Provisions, we do not cancel the previous text and create absolute chaos! This is a legal act of great importance to society, and with it, in fact, with the second additional report, you have actually acknowledged the error in relation to the first report. Let us focus on the texts already adopted. And these aren't editorial corrections, they go beyond the meaning and scope of the already adopted text! Regarding the proposals themselves, we commented on them, we debated them in the Legal Commission, we debated them here in plenary. Now we return to the texts already voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The first line is the People's Representative Tsetska Tsacheva. [[Radio.]] You have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u192	Dear Mr. Glauchev, dear Mr. Popov, colleagues! When amendments and additions to a bill are adopted, until everything has not been voted and specified, nothing has been voted and specified. There is no obstacle, colleagues, and beyond the emotions of today, let's face it, parliamentary practice is, we have repeatedly used it in this Chamber, long before our composition of the National Assembly and many after us, when there is a postponement of texts, such as the specific hypothesis, to present an additional report in which it is not impossible to offer hypotheses that exclude the general imperative principle, as you said, Mr. Popov. This is done, colleagues, with today's additional report. So there is no drama, there is no promulgation of this decision that we have adopted, because we have not finalized the entire Amendment and Supplement Bill, we have not adopted the Law yet. Let me remind you that according to our Rules, the last decision adopted during the National Assembly is what is valid and there is no drama at the moment. I understand that everyone who comes out here will talk about the few additional reports, about the fact that the repealed texts now offer editorials, which provide for an exception to the general principle and the general rule. But it's not a violation, it's not an unusual practice. Let us reduce the speeches in this sense. I am convinced that we will continue this way from now on, but I dare hope that we will comply with the order in which legislative proposals are adopted and that it is not impossible for the National Assembly to reconsider its vote on the vote already taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u194	Madam President, I fully agree with what you have said, but these are not delayed texts. On the basis of which member of our Rules of Procedure are we revisiting them again? That's the third time! We've had a vote already, it's announced, we don't have any delayed texts in this case. Just the initial procedure for presenting this report on such texts...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u195	I'll get you the transcript out of your Election Code. I'll get you Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u196	We don't have any delayed texts, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u197	A little shame!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u198	We don't have any delayed texts. There's no way we can get into this procedure at all. In principle, I agree with you, but when texts are postponed. What have we postponed here?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u199	What did we postpone? You're not anywhere, not on the committees, not anywhere!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u200	Any other speeches? Mr. Mestan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we just heard Mrs. Tsacheva say that there is no drama. Drama has, it's very big and it's high time to say it. Today's Great Thursday, April 28, is the ugliest day in the 26-year democratic history of Bulgaria. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] I repeat, today's Great Thursday is the ugliest day in the 26-year democratic history of Bulgaria because the democratic Bulgarian parliament... [[(Replying from the right block: who? Who? Who?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u202	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u203	While I say this, I will look into the eyes of Mr. Tsvetanov and Mrs. Tsacheva! The Democratic Bulgarian Parliament is now being held hostage by an honest fascist outburst and all its accomplices will be shown because in violation of both the Constitution and a number of international treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, with which Bulgaria has committed itself, in violation of the principle of universal equal selective law You discriminate a huge number of Bulgarian citizens! It's fascism in action! Modern Bulgarian Democracy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u204	Dear Mr. Mestan, I am making a remark to you about the systematic use of a word that offends the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u205	The modern Bulgarian Parliament is trapped by fascism and every participant will be shown!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u206	You're gonna force me to apply art. 156 and remove you from the room if you continue this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u207	I am very curious whether the so-called right-wing Democrats are no longer satisfied with the fact that in Western Europe sections will be able to open up and so pleased to keep the discrimination of Bulgarian citizens from the United States, Canada, Turkey and other countries that are not members of the European Union. I am very curious what the position of the other system parties will be, because the motive with which you restrict rights is dangerous for another reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u208	That's not the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u209	He's defined. You're accusing a neighbouring country of interfering with internal affairs. This can't permanently make our relationship worse. You take this heavy responsibility, Mr. Tsvetanov. It is the responsibility of the leaders of the parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u210	It has nothing to do with the text being discussed. I'll take your word for it, Mr. Mestan, it has nothing to do with the text being discussed!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u211	This is also the responsibility of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, and everyone will bear it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u212	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Here's a line for you, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u213	This is where they called us.... and threatened us. They called us.... and threatened us with invasion! So, what we talked about about this party, and what we wrote, and what we discussed, and Mrs. Tasheva read a statement, it's true. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] Although the media did not respond to the declaration, it was true! Ms. Tasheva in this declaration said that here we have a secular party -- Turkish, and two Islamists -- and they are fighting each other -- is not quite true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u214	He's talking about his own party, not ours!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u215	I can't speak from this tribune of my own because... You talk about her, I'm talking about yours. For your conduct in Parliament, I have no reason to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u216	Your line is to Mr. Mestan. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u217	My line to Mr. Mestan was that we were right by reading the declaration and saying all those things that I said before, and you are protesting, but I do not intend to offend you, and I have a purpose to speak the truth. And what I've said is the truth, and what I'm saying now is also the truth. The opposition is present and it does not originate from us, but from above, from the footsteps of God, from the history he dictates! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u218	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Mestan, for the back. After this procedure, the people representative Petar Slavov wants.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Stanilov, you spit it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u220	I've always done that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u221	It's all because of the new political power of DOT. [[Noise and lines.]] Admit it! It is also hidden in the official shorthand protocol of the meeting with the participation of Prime Minister Borisov. But you won't stop us with any tricks. [[Sighs:.]] And this is bad news for the final nationalists, and very good news for NATO and European Bulgaria. Remember that! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u222	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The speeches made so far have, for the most part, deviated from the text of this paragraph and referred to the following paragraphs in the report, which is why I propose that they be made, if they so wish, in their systematic place. I therefore propose, fellow Members, that we put an end to this debate, vote on this paragraph, and move on. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u224	A reverse opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, this is precisely what this paragraph is about, because the texts are interrelated. The entire Election Code, the whole product you're offering us, is a premature [[noise and lines]] Which, first of all, the president hopes to return. So any arguments about how we have to meet the deadline by the end of April, because we have made a decision and so on... First, the president will have to veto this project and bring it back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u226	What is the connection to the text discussed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u227	The connection is that this text..................................................................................... 14, where are the conditions and criteria for opening sections abroad. So there is no way that the speeches are irrelevant and do not stop them, because you are really making a huge mistake with the adoption of these texts under the influence of national populism, which shakes the irrational fear of Bulgarian citizens abroad. They managed to get the resentment of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens outside the European Union, now they will be able to bring down the anger of our compatriots, including in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. We vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov to end the debates on the proposal to create a new § 6. Please vote. Vote 153 MPs: 111 against 42 abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 6 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. Please vote. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 111 against 34 abstentions 5. The creation of a new § 6 with its respective content on the Commission report is accepted. First negative vote on the national representative Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Members of the Majority! On today's very special day of Passion Week you are about to commit treason. You betrayed democracy because democracy is rules and procedures, you betrayed our compatriots who work and live abroad, you betrayed the President of the Legal Commission Danail Kirilov, you are also about to hand over the President of the National Assembly Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva because you have no common position on the proposed texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u230	And that's why you voted against?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u231	They wonder... Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u232	I can't help but interrupt a negative vote you've got. You have a negative vote! [[Noise and lines on the right.]] To save the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u233	Colleagues, any attempt to force-press texts is counterproductive to those who propose it. Practice shows that extraordinary legislation always addresses those who offer it. Let me just remind you of a few things in history: about a decade and a year ago this right-hand side of the room and half of the middle sector were engaged by a single political force. Look at the angle these people got into, and that's only because they voted in this way. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by DPS.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u234	Another negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. I hope you won't say that you voted against it in order to expand the influence of the right half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it for two main reasons. The first reason is purely principled. Once I've voted on one text, I think it's beneath my dignity to change it one more time and vote for some other text. That's the first thing. The second thing that I am saying to colleagues, yesterday you reduced the number of people who can vote for their own mayor by accepting that under 400 people will not vote, and today you are ready to give, to open sections for 100 people, that is, the foreigners in Bulgaria put them at a level higher than the Bulgarian citizens and gave them a little more voting rights than Bulgarian citizens, so that was the second reason why I voted against. Bulgarian citizens abroad cannot be more entitled than Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Is there a third negative vote? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u237	According to § 9 "A proposal from the MPs Mestan, Georgieva, Hafuzov: "Paragraph 9 to Inquiry." The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 9. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall be renumbered accordingly: Article 14 is amended as follows: ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. (1) Election sections outside the country shall be formed in diplomatic or consular representation, except in the cases under para. Two and three. (2) In the settlements of the Member States of the European Union where there is no diplomatic or consular representation shall be formed polling stations in the presence of not less than 100 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (3) By a decision of the Central Election Commission on a proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a polling section shall be formed in a locality with a population of more than 1 million inhabitants of a country which is not a member of the European Union in which there is no diplomatic or consular representation. The electoral section shall be formed in the event of no less than 100 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (4) Paragraph 3 shall not apply to the election of Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. First speech.. People's representative Petar Slavov, then the people's representative Mithat Metin, then Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We come to the paragraph in which, in fact, it is very much the essence, I think, in our plenary sitting today. This is the paragraph that enables really this definitely wrong decision, to which parliament was headed the other day, to be sanitized, to be fixed, and to have our compatriots abroad able to open and vote in polling stations, so that you see everything that has been spoken mainly from the left-center does not correspond to the truth. Indeed, there is a text proposed here that cancels such a ban as was at the moment at risk of staying, so it seems to me that we should support this text. It can in any case be improved. I suppose that there will be such proposals, but I am taking this opportunity to make an editorial proposal under condition, in case we support this text, namely to correct in the already voted art. The 11th adopted para. 2, as if the text, as proposed now, of art. 14, i.e. a regime for opening electoral sections outside the territory of the country, outside diplomatic and consular representations, obviously there is no way to correspond with a ban text adopted a few days ago in the Election Code. Therefore, I propose an editorial, honourable President, in § 5 on the report of the Commission with regard to art. 11, the newly created para. 2 which reads: "No polling stations are allowed to be formed outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. 14, para. 2 and para. 3 "I hope that what we will now vote on will be taken into account, will be reflected in its systematic place, and I hope that our colleagues on the left and on the centre will also be reassured that there will be no contradictions in the Code and that there will be no ban, which I did not support the other day, and I do not now support that there will be for our compatriots abroad to open electoral sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u240	Yes, in case the current paragraph is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u241	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u242	I will put to the vote your proposal to return to § 11. Are you here first Mithat Metin or retreating? Line, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am pleased that although he formally denies Mr. Slavov, he has de facto listened to my call and in my opinion that we must inevitably return to the votes already in plenary by all of you text of art. 11, para. 2, which you voted precisely under pressure, under the pressure of national populism. And when you saw what a huge wave of discontent you caused abroad when our compatriots rose in Europe and in North America, when the protests rained, including in electronic media, you suddenly got scared in social networks and decided to give them some lies, but be assured that this lie will not satisfy them. You will not be able to stop the discontent of our countrymen in Chicago, for example, Mr. Slavov. You will not stop the discontent of our compatriots in Russia, our compatriots in Macedonia [[noise and lines, laughter]] Our countrymen... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u244	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u245	Our compatriots in all countries that are not members of the European Union. And they will punish you because you deprive them of fundamental constitutional rights, because by making the narrow party tax collectors to hit this party or that party, in the end you sacrifice democracy, you sacrifice the Bulgarian Constitution. If I were you, I would suggest no correction in art. 11, para. 2, Mr. President, and the cancellation, the cancellation of the new para. 2 of art. 11, if you want to be consistent, if you still want to show that our countrymen's right to vote abroad, you care for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other lines to the speech of the MP Petar Slavov? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, I remember very well the debate from the other day. And I remember standing here on this stand, and I warned you about this thing then not to vote on it. How you voted then I don't know. I don't know if you guys were talking on the phone like you were doing right now, but if you hear me, I'll pay attention to you that I was defending something else and that there might be an election area abroad. I would even make such proposals in the Code. Such proposals in the Code I did not see have come from the DPS, so please do not mislead the House and really try not to suggest that you have hardly defended you, from the DPS, have defended our compatriots abroad and all our compatriots abroad, not in a certain, neighbouring country and in certain cities, where multiple electoral violations have been found, and indeed our compatriots abroad, all free people living outside the territory of Bulgaria, who are Bulgarian citizens. So for the sake of correctness, I'm making a correct line. It's absolutely not true what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. To make a statement there is the folk representative Mithat Metin. After him, Radan Kanev. We'll alternate the parliamentary groups simply. I've recorded all of you, but let them have all this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I take the floor on the keynote of this report. This article is extremely important for our countrymen who live outside Bulgaria. As we said at a meeting of the Legal Committee and in front of plenary sittings, we are also saying today that we do not agree with this text. By its nature, the text offered to us today, at this hour, at this minute, is brand new. And as a brand new he has his legal and political arguments. I am asking a question to the Member of the Legal Commission, or to the Member of the Legal Commission, who has defended this text in order to be adopted by the Legal Commission: what are his political arguments to propose in para. 3, that a polling section in a populated area with a population of over one million can be formed? Why didn't he offer a settlement with another population? Why didn't he propose with a larger population or a smaller population? Then, professional and legal arguments. And here is my procedure, Mr. Chairman. We would very much like to hear the opinion of the professionals...................................................................................................................................................................... Is that possible? You are bringing them into the inability to declare the realization of civil duty, as stated by colleagues from the Patriotic Front. This text needs to be refined, but in order to be refined, it needs to be justified, and not anywhere, but here in plenary, from this tribune to hear what these arguments are, which I am talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u250	Thank you, dear Metin. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the people representative Radan Kanev, after him the people representative Milen Mihov, after him Ramadan Atalay. I'm taking turns, I've recorded you, Mr. Ibryamov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Should I give only one parliamentary group to speak?! It's not fair.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to express my doubts that, with today's parliamentary technique, the mess created earlier could be fixed. I'm afraid there's a danger of getting deeper and deeper into purely legal misunderstandings on the way we're going, and there's a reason for that. It is that the previously voted al. 2 of art. 11 of the Election Code, that is, the ban on voting outside consular and diplomatic representations and the limited, today's opportunity to create more polling stations reflects two fundamentally different political views. I would say more about two radically different views on the content of modern Bulgarian patriotism. One view that has been re-created in the current Election Code is a view that clearly views the community of the Bulgarian nation within and outside the borders of the country as a national priority. He also considers the diversity and unity of different ethnicities within the Bulgarian nation as an important national priority. I will not hide that in all reservations and in all irregularities found so far, this philosophy of the Code, which is conditionally known as the Code Manolova, is the philosophy of Bulgarian patriotism, which I support. The Bulgarian nation is ethnically diverse and must be politically unified in its diversity. The Bulgarian nation, regardless of our will and will, is also geographically scattered. This is, by the way, a historical traditional fact and its unity in this scattered geographical situation must also be a national priority. There's another view. The other view is to close, to limit the opportunities of Bulgarians outside national borders and to reduce the political influence of minorities within national borders. A view which, for example, the Greek Republic has been implementing for decades in its national legislation. There can be very difficult agreement between these two views. However, if there is a majority today for the proposed texts to be voted, I will also make specific editorial proposals, with all the reservations that I have towards the meaning of such a compromise between incompatible views and ideals. First of all, drop out in art. 14, para. 2 parts of the sentence in which there are no diplomatic or consular representations, because it will turn out that in major cities where there are diplomatic and consular representation, more difficult new sections will be created than in cities where there are none. I will set an example with the last parliamentary elections in London, where there were numerous sections outside the city centre. Who knows London and the need for travel time within the city, I think would agree that the presence of a section in Western London is a prerequisite for the vote of many Bulgarian citizens. And then in para. 3 should not be called a single polling section. It is said that a polling section is obviously an imitation of the voting right where there are large Bulgarian communities. And let's not call it a population with a population of over one million people, but a population of over one million people. I am immediately giving specific examples to be clear. In the entire state of Florida, where the second and third largest Bulgarian communities live in America, there is not a single population with a population of over one million. However, there are two agglomerations around Tampa, which is the second Bulgarian community after Chicago, and in eastern Florida, around Miami, two cities with a population of about 300,000 people, where it is the third largest Bulgarian community outside Chicago within the United States. By the way, such examples can give a lot, and on the other hand, due to the undisclosed aim of making it difficult to vote in Turkey, note that where Bulgarian citizens live in Turkey, there are still cities with a population of more than one million or more people, Adrianople, in which there is a consulate, so sections can be found anyway. In conclusion, once again, we ultimately make a choice between worldviews. Perhaps a much more serious debate is needed, which can only come after the presidential veto of the texts already voted. For the defenders of the suffrage model that exists in Greece, I would point out that it sooner or later leads to the political results that it has brought to Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak. Professor Stanilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kanev, I congratulate you on your insight into the substance. [[crowd cheering and applause]] , in the bet of these changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u254	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u255	We are really talking about value categories, value differences in our approach to Constitution, human rights, to democracy, to the European essence of Bulgaria. And here, this fault, which we are witnessing, unfortunately, on the one hand, the parties that continue to defend European principles and standards for the protection of human rights, for equality, remain in a minority, and parties that are supposedly the so-called'systemic parties', supposedly belong to European families, in the name of the preservation of power...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u256	Where's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u257	...are succumbing to the pressure of national populism. I appeal to you with the following appeal: do not be content with such editorial amendments to please certain groups of voters in Tampa and Florida. Do not allow yourself to restrict your principled position just to please certain voters in London. Be principled to the end. Allow, as so far, to open sections everywhere where there are enough Bulgarian citizens abroad to be able to vote, to fulfil their civic duty, not to solve the specific case of Tampa, Florida or London.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. There's a word for a second line, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If the thesis of the respected Mr. Kanev was correct, it would be written in the Bulgarian Constitution that the Bulgarian nation is a political nation. The definition he gave that she was polyethnic is false within the meaning of the Constitution, which does not plead such a thing. It is true that there are European countries, they are too few, which are clearly told in their constitutions that we are talking about political nations. The Bulgarian nation is not like that. The Bulgarian nation is from Bulgarians of origin. Those who have received Bulgarian citizenship have absolutely all rights as Bulgarians. They cannot be connected to the Bulgarian nation. They're the diaspora. There's Armenian diaspora, there's Russian, there's Turkish. If we make a Japanese Bulgarian citizen, will he become a Bulgarian? It won't work, and it won't belong to the nation. If the Constitution is amended and it clearly accepts the definition that the Bulgarian nation is a political nation, that it consists of a variety of ethnicities - this and this, examples, could have happened. What Mr. Kanev said is within the meaning of the Libertarian thesis on the liquidation of nations and the formation of a Europe of multicultural communities, but the multicultural model, as you can see, is not working so far. This was recognised by the heads of many European countries headed by Mrs Merkel. There's no reason to give such definitions. Replace the meaning of the Constitution by one majority of the Grand National Assembly that we are a political nation and that Japanese, Chinese, hammers, nanians and so on are Bulgarians once they receive citizenship, and it will work. Otherwise, it can't work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u260	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Third line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u261	Mr. Kanev, congratulations on your position! Congratulations for the right term "glomeration" "a population with a population of over 1 million inhabitants," which is an entirely conversational idiom. Unfortunately, I suppose that once this Election Code is approved, if approved, many such misunderstandings will come out, because some of the arrangements inside are a result of domestic thoughts, rather than a legal thought that regulates the legal process. Mr. Kanev, since you have taken a very nice path, I would like to ask you for one last comment in the duplicate, and it is for an opinion expressed by Tuesday's stenogram the one you also commented on. There, one of the participants said about the vote abroad............................ the other issue is about the vote abroad... only in diplomatic and consular representations, as all the arguments that Mr.... will not mention his name are absolutely true, but the big political argument is who we are pushing away. And these are the ones we leave behind who are the gastarbyters and the others. That's good. But these are also the ones who train at the most elite universities. I sincerely hope that you too will not distinguish between people who are forced to live outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Unfortunately, 99% of Bulgarian citizens did not leave the country for good, either for political reasons or for economic reasons, or for better education.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u262	From your department!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u263	But I hope that you will continue in this tone and will not divide them as this representative in the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. Mr. Kanev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to pay attention first to professor's line. Stanilov and with the sound applause of my friends from the Patriotic Front. First of all, to distinguish Bulgarian citizens from Bulgarian citizens and diasporas in Bulgaria is something that, starting so freely to say it in this House, until it becomes a dramatic threat to national security, does not pass much time. So when we speak of such things, we must be aware of their possible political reflections in the future, because we have neighbouring countries that have allowed themselves not to view their political nation as one, regardless of the existence of different ethnicities and religions. They've suffered extremely much. So I cannot in any way accept that people born in Bulgaria by Bulgarian parents, and many generations back, can be viewed as diasporas in their own homeland or that we should for some reason keep away the ethnic diversity of the Bulgarian nation. If we keep it quiet, it means increasing divisions, which will lead to real conflicts within the Bulgarian nation, and again I say to serious threats to national security. With regard to screaming, it's bitter. The principled political positions always carry their risks. If anyone thinks I don't realize the risk of being stuck to the DPS in the same media that under DPS dictated me to other political powers in this room, of course I do. But there are things beyond petty political risks. These are the important political positions and important views on the future of the nation, on its national security and national unity. By the way, exactly 105 years ago here, a fierce debate was opened in this Chamber whether Armenian refugees in Bulgaria should be banned from buying agricultural land. Of course this was an extremely popular thesis in then agricultural Bulgaria. However, this popular thesis then came out two Bulgarian politicians, stood by their names and did not allow such a ban and restriction of the rights of the Bulgarian Armenians. These people were named Nikola Mushanov and Nikola Kanev. I won't spit on my family a hundred years later and I will always defend principles, even against the DPS co-operation charge, which is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is a great Thursday. Some of the colleagues are in a hurry to paint eggs in red, others are in a hurry to fuck them. Let's respect their wishes and their haste. That is why I am making a procedure to end this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u268	The MPs Milen Mihov, Ramadan Atali, Chetin Kazak...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u269	That doesn't matter. I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u270	I understand the procedure. Please step away from the stands. For a reverse opinion from either of you three? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, with the interruption of this debate, which is essential, which entered into the essence that says what we are doing in § 7, a debate in which, for the first time, this bill seems to have gone on the tracks... The debate that was held in this Chamber was anti-democratic, a debate that was filled with hatred for the voter, a debate that until now was being held as a ban on the election of certain voters, which was written in this Law. With the debate that's been going on so far, you want to have a professional victory. [[Reply of the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] We have already told you: give up and let us sit down, because politics is dialogue. Politics is not hatred, politics is not about daffodils, to vote on different preferences and to collect certain people who at one time were in the first row, are now on the last line. The election law will lead you to the point that some of you will not be on either the first or the last row. You won't be in this room! Don't interrupt, Mr. Chairman! Give us a chance to speak out of this tribune. By this Law, you impose fear on Altemir to send to beat the people of the village of Pravda, Todor to fear Altemir. You're making a law that has nothing to do with it. And at some point, when everything started on the tracks, a moment when GERB started to realize that you really need to be that political force to introduce calm and security, you again turned to the spirit of the Law [[shows Election Code]] Hate, fear, acceptance of paragraphs for official victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debate. Vote 139 MPs: 104, against 33, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva, Hussein Hafuzov, as well as by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, two identical proposals. The Commission does not support the proposals. They voted 132 MPs: 26, against 89, abstention 17. The proposals have not been accepted. Come on in, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal for a re-voting because some Members are not in the Chamber, especially those who have proposed the removal of this text, such as Mr. Mestan, who is not in the Chamber. Let us give everyone the opportunity to vote at least on their proposals. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u274	How long do you suggest we wait for them? Procedure for re-voting proposals not supported by the Commission. Vote 141 MPs: 35 against 93 abstentions 13. The proposals have not been accepted. We move on to the text of the importer, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Before that, there was a proposal of the National Representative Radan Kanev in art. 14, para. 2 drop the expression in which there is no diplomatic or consular representation. We are voting on a proposal made by Radan Kanev from the parliamentary platform. They voted 140 MPs: 39, against 78, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. National Representative Radan Kanev proposed in para. 3 drop the word one and then the place of the population to be replaced by the glomeration. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Radan Kanev for dropping one by the parliamentary platform. They voted 145 MPs: 40, against 82, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Radan Kanev's proposal to replace the word "glomeration" by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 144 MPs: 40 against 79, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text to the vote, as proposed by the Commission in its report. We are voting § 9 which becomes § 7 on the Commission report. 140 MPs voted: 105 against 34, abstention 1. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. There's only one sentence I'm gonna tell my colleagues. Since 1991, attempts have been made for electoral legislation to limit the rights of Bulgarian citizens living in Turkey and Bulgarian citizens of Turkish ethnic origin in Bulgaria to vote fully. I'll tell you something...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u276	You start a political speech, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u277	No, one sentence. As an argument for my fellow Members to think about how they vote. Any attempt to restrict this right will lead to an attempt to seek their rights in another way. As a Bulgarian, I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u278	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Procedure for re-voting § 7 on the Commission report. 135 MPs voted: 105, against 29, abstention 1. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted. For a negative vote, the people's representative Mustafa Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I voted against the proposed text because it is anti-democratic. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, in this Election Code, which is currently under consideration, there are enough anti-constitutional texts adopted outside the National Assembly's Rules of Organization and Activity, which deprives Bulgarian citizens of their inalienable constitutional rights. We have also witnessed in the past 25 years, ladies and gentlemen, how ruling majorities, losing their power, impose force election rules through which they pass into the zone of oblivion, of nothingness. GERB became hostage of populists and honest nationalists, but, unfortunately, it is not only GERB, but the whole of Bulgaria and all Bulgarian citizens who live in Bulgaria, and in Macedonia, Serbia, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, Japan, Australia, but most of all the Bulgarian citizens who live in Turkey, USA and Canada. We cannot become accomplices to this criminal behaviour towards Bulgarian citizens, to this treasonous behaviour and I call on my colleagues to leave those who break the Constitution and the rules themselves to accept whatever electoral rules they want for official victories. [[Shouting from PFs, applause from DPS. People's representatives from the DPS are leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u280	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Let us wait for fellow Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to leave the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Order, please! Let's move on. In his speech, the People's Representative Petar Slavov made a proposal under the condition that the text of the Commission for § 7 is adopted to go back to the vote of § 7 in art. 11. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Petar Slavov. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We return to the already accepted § 7 by importer. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 we have accepted the creation of a new para. 2 which reads as follows: No polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria are allowed. People's representative Petar Slavov proposes that the sentence be continued by a comma and then added to it, except in the cases referred to in art. 14, para. Two and three. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3, which is already accepted. In other words, only the Appendix of para. 2 with the expression "except in the cases referred to in art. 14, para. Two and three. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov, made by the parliamentary tribune, as I have just reminded you. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The proposal of the MP Petar Slavov to supplement para. 2 in art. 11 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u281	According to § 10, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye, § 10 to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from Mikhail Mikov to drop § 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall be renumbered accordingly: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence is finally added to the current address (residence address) in the country concerned and, in a sentence, third, the words "or contact telephone" shall be deleted. 2. The creation of para. 4. The applications shall be submitted for the determination of the number of polling stations and for the drawing up of the list under art. 31, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u282	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making an editorial proposal. 1 of the text of the Commission, the subscribing sentence I'll explain why. It is proposed to drop the submission of a telephone contact in order for the Commission, i.e. the CEC to have no way of carrying out any verification of the reality of the applications submitted. Let us not create such prerequisites for the failure of the CEC to do its job, so I suggest that this subjunctive sentence be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u284	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote proposals by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, as well as by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, both are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 7 against 84, abstention 7. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal just made by the MP Chavdar Georgiev in the text proposed by the Commission, in point. 1 to finally drop the expression or contact phones.......................................................................................................... is................................................................................................................................................ Isn't that right, Mr. Georgiev? [[Reply from MP Chavdar Georgiev.]] Or do you want the whole sentence? [[Reply from MP Chavdar Georgiev.]] Okay. So after... in the country concerned........................................................................................ in the country concerned..................................... is............................................................................................................................ Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Chavdar Georgiev from the parliamentary tribune. They voted 104 MPs: 19 against 66, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 10 and edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 10. Vote 105 MPs: 95 against 9, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u285	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye to drop § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become relevant and be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u286	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, as well as an identical proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, both are not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 8 against 89, abstention 7. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which is supported by the Commission. We are voting on the text supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 95 against 8, no abstentions. Paragraph 11 by importer supported by the Commission has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u287	The Commission proposes to create a new § 118: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 375 words. 2 "4' are replaced by "al'. 2 and 3
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u288	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective content and numbering on the Commission report. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 104 MPs: 96 against 7, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph has been adopted. Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in a calm environment, in the form of a procedure, I would like to wish you happy holidays, to be alive and well, to rest well! The same I wish the Bulgarian Muslims from the heart to be alive and well because it is right! There's one paragraph left for you to travel and be careful on the road! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u290	We could have done that as a declaration on behalf of a group. Mrs. Atanasova, the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u291	Paragraph 183 "A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev, made in accordance with art. 80, is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I, II and III. The Commission shall support the version of Option IV importer and propose the following version of § 183, which shall be completed and renumbered accordingly: In § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, in the sentence first, the words "up to 500 polling stations" shall be replaced by at least 500 polling stations and in a sentence the second figure "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" and a third sentence shall be created: "When the elections are made for President and Vice President of the Republic in 2016, an experimental machine census by rules adopted by the Central Election Commission shall be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u292	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suppose you are pleased that we are about to conclude the adoption of the Election Code, but I want to disappoint you and tell you that you should not be so pleased. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You've accepted an election code...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u294	Please, by the wording of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u295	It's right on the lyrics. In relation to the last text, Mr President, in which you have not accepted any opposition proposal. A fake election code for a false report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u296	Please, by the wording of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u297	And you will be responsible for its application.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u298	I will take your floor if you do not concentrate on the text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u299	History and time are erratic amounts and they always change. After a time when you're in opposition, don't even think about complaining that this Code is so bad. I won't tell you anything else. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u300	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Georgiev! I take a line just to disagree with you. Dear Mr. Georgiev, this Code is much better than the Manolova Code. That's all that matters. Because this Code is not made by one party, at the service of one party, but is made after several political forces have united around it and the decisions have been voted in the House after debates, not after the termination of speeches and other procedural moves that... [[BSP LB lines]] . Okay, maybe two, three things we stopped. But in principle, this code was adopted in the context of a debate. So let's wish for a really bright holiday and stop talking, Mr. Georgiev, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u302	Another line? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u303	Dear Mr. Georgiev, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! This Code may have some imperfections, I do not know a law that is perfect or voted by any National Assembly. However, honourable colleagues, Mr. Georgiev! There's one thing we have to admit. With this Law finally Bulgaria showed character that it can oppose the attempts of a neighbouring country to interfere in our internal affairs. [[Applause from PF.]] If you will, with this Code, we freed our fellow citizens of Turkish origin who live in Turkey from being forced by the government of this country to vote for one political party or another. If we have done so in this Code, it is a success for democracy in Bulgaria and for the dignity of the Bulgarian state and its sovereignty and for all Bulgarian citizens. This is a fact that needs to be taken into account, for which I would like to thank colleagues from GERB, the Reformation Bloc, colleagues from the Democratic Center, the ABB, including those colleagues from BSP, who, although they are opposition, supported this paragraph. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a real step towards regaining sovereignty and dignity as a state and showing that we are not a country that can be crushed, played and the institutions in Bulgaria to be appointed by dictatorship by other forces. As long as this is done, this Code deserves the support. Thank you. That was my cue to you. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u304	Third line requested the popular representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. It's a little early for closing words. There are three more deferred paragraphs. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev, I was forced to give you a line because you said some untruths after all. Only in the first report did I count in the framework of the two lines of 28 accepted opposition proposals. Twenty-eight! If there was more time, I'd probably count more of those. That is, you were not honest on a great Thursday, which is a great sin, not to tell the truth as it really is. Moreover, I think it is high time to stop speculation, because during the examination of the Election Code something very good happened and it is good that Mustafa Karadayi had the chance to learn the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's probably the best thing. And by learning this Constitution, I hope that you and he have finally found out that when this Election Code was adopted, there is no violation of anyone's civil right anywhere in the world. I hope you've finally got that thing figured out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u306	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u307	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Georgiev, come in for the back. What's said, what's said, what's said. I'm sure it'll be the same as the back. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u308	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After all, I would wish you happy holidays, to be safe and sound. That's what I want to tell you first. But second, whether the Code is good or not will show the new elections. I am convinced that you have accepted the European Commission without the opposition, because we were opposed to the basic provisions that have been adopted, an antisocial, anti-national code, increased control, limit complaints, limit citizens' right to choose. You've limited their freedom! And that'll show it, I'm convinced. There's nothing else I can tell you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u309	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. We have suspended paragraphs 173, 202 and 203. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u310	I'll be very brief. Mr President, my procedure to you is that you have allowed the previous speakers to say nothing about the particular text that we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u311	I'll take it all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u312	And the specific text concerns engine voting and engine counting. I think that he, frankly, is a step towards having more machines in the sections, in voting more honestly, more clearly and, ultimately, after the end of the election day, to have some quick and accurate results. This is the engine vote. For the engine countdown, of course, there are tests ahead, and we are about to see exactly how the votes will be counted. What I wanted to wish my colleagues: bright holidays, colleagues! Have a good time with your folks! Pay attention to them and I hope you get more positive emotions because today it seems as if your negatives came a little too much. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u313	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer for option 1, 2 and 3. The Commission supports the version of the importer for option 4 and proposes the version of § 183 by importer, which becomes the relevant paragraph with the version of the Additional Report on the changes in § 11 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. We vote on the text:.......................................................................................................... There are no proposals in the Chamber. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We finished the Additional Report with entry No 653 03 54 of 28 April 2016. Back to the second part of the report. First it is § 118 by numbering of the Commission for amendment of art. 375, which is voted on. Paragraph 183 has also been voted on. Next is § 202.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u314	Paragraph 202. Proposal by Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop § 202. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 202, which shall become the relevant paragraph and be renumbered: ????????????????? The Law for direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 after the word "types" shall be added to the paper version. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The proposal for the production of the national referendum shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10, para. 1, t. 5 and para. 2. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2 after the word "types" shall be added to the paper version. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 3 after the word "types" shall be added to the paper version. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 5th sentence third after the word "type" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u315	Statements? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u316	Madam President, honourable Members! A very brief editorial proposal that we would like to make with colleagues from the Reformation Block. According to the Commission's wording, 2 of para. 3 after the words "al." 2 "To be added" can be added. This is our editorial proposal, colleagues, which will then enable us to return to the beginning of the Election Code, where we adopted in § 2 absurdly to me and to the colleagues of the Reformation Block a proposal made by BSP. This ridiculous proposal has forbidden us to schedule on the same date referendums and elections. So this will give us an opportunity to correct it, as we have just corrected the section texts. I am doing, Madam President, under the conditions of possibility, if you support my initial editorial proposal, it is also a second editorial proposal in § 2 by importer, in art. 5 to be added at the end, except where otherwise provided for in a special law. I mean, there's no absolute ban that's imperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u317	- What's the line? I won't. I want a statement. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, I would like to remind you that the current amendments to the Election Code are being made as a result of the decision adopted by the National Assembly regarding the already held referendum at the initiative of President Plevneliev, which took place at the same time as the local elections last year. We adopted a decision that supported the electronic remote voting and had to find a place in the electoral code. This was the reason why we put the amendments to the Election Code to consideration. Currently, in a different phase of procedure are two signatures of citizens to hold new upcoming referendums. During the work in the Legal Commission, during the plenary sessions for voting of the Election Code without any justification, we were blamed that we were in a hurry to make these changes only so that the rule in force in the Law on the direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government in view of future referendums could be overcome. I declare on my own behalf, but I think my colleagues in my parliamentary group will agree that none of us have ever had such a thought. Since we are already in a procedure of pending referendum proceedings, it is not logical in the course of the movement of these procedures that we are changing the special law which governs the simultaneous conduct of the referendum together with the respective national elections, which will be the presidential elections at the end of the year. I declare that I will not support this Commission proposal in order not to raise any doubt in anyone that no official victory is sought, as we are accused not only by fellow Members who are no longer present in the Chamber, but also by the citizens, that almost, you see, with the changes in the Election Code, there is some professional victory being sought. In order to put an end to this speculation, I call on you not to make in Transitional and Final Provisions amendments to the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, because it is unfair, without having at all such a thought to read that, you see, the only purpose of the amendments to the Election Code that we are currently doing is just to divide the holding of future referendums with the upcoming national elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u319	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u320	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, I am taking a line, just to point out that there is still this absurd § 2, which we accepted on a proposal from the BSP. I think then and after your speech it is nice to cancel. So I'm making an editorial suggestion that he be rejected or canceled. As you see it, Mr. Chairman, so define it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u321	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Enchev. [[Radio, laughter and lines from the Patriotic Front.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u322	Would you care to take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u323	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u324	Would you care to take a look at that? [[Laughter and lines from the Patriotic Front.]] Okay, I'm not pointing fingers. Would you care to take an attitude? Mr. Chairman! Ms. Tsacheva, you are not sincere in your statement regarding future referendums, as you, in the first term of your government as President of the Parliament, have not given a move to the national signature of IMRO and SKAT TV for a referendum on Turkey's membership in the European Union. So far, this signature is lying, unknown where, whether in the basement, whether in your office, and I ask you very much to explain when you intend, after we talk about the referendum of Slavi Trifonov, when do you intend to put it in the Legal Commission and from there in plenary? And now the most important question is: why so far in the first term and now in the second term, have you not taken at any time regard? It is understandable why the Patriot Front does not react.. because it does not wish to break the coalition property with you, but I remain faithful to the principles of the signature of the IMRO and I believe that you of this tribune after answering very well and arguing for Mr. Slavi Trifonov's signature, to take this petition as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u325	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Madame Chairman, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u326	Dear Mr. Glauchev, dear Mr. Slavov, colleagues! Mr. Slavov, you are right that if the plenary does not support amendments to the Law on Direct Participation, there will be a collision between the text already voted on earlier, but in line with the report to the end, where the special law also provided for the possibility, which is why I am joining your procedural proposal for postponement, because since the special law says that referendums should be produced at the same time with national elections, there is no way the general rule, which we have already voted on on on some occasion. As for Mr. Enchev, your reply, at the time when the petition was submitted to the 40th National Assembly, the texts in the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government were not refined. You very well remember that this is happening at the beginning, the first months of this mandate when we adopted such amendments. However, there is no way for the parliament of a National Assembly or the specific composition of a National Assembly to mechanically transport and examine documents, bills and requests from a previous National Assembly. Nowhere in my office is this signature, this IMRO initiative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u327	And Skat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u328	And Skat. It has not been tabled by me as President in the plenary since the relevant reports have not been drawn up and we have not had the opportunity by law to proceed forward that is the only reason. From now on, I have said and repeated it. I think that this is the will of the majority in this National Assembly, every initiative of Bulgarian citizens who have signed with a request to produce a national referendum will be followed entirely by the special Law on the direct participation of citizens in power. I therefore hope that you will also support my proposal, contrary to the Commission proposal, to introduce exceptions to the general principle of simultaneously producing these elections. I would like to share that this is also the firm opinion of the President of our party. Mr. Borisov, who, in his capacity as Prime Minister, has repeatedly stated his opinion, from which there is no retreat, that we should also think about financial stability, to think about the savings that are realized during the simultaneous production of a referendum with elections, so I am counting on you to support us in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u329	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u330	Mr. Chairman, I take the floor to comment on this important subject. I allow myself to object to the honourable President of the National Assembly in the legal interpretation [[SHOUTING AND SPEAKING IN P.F.]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u331	I ask for order in this House, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u332	...for the legal interpretation which she gave to the two provisions of the Election Code and the Law on the direct participation of citizens. It cannot be accepted in the case that one of these laws is special in relation to the other. I note that the ratio of general and special applies to provisions, even though it is called the law. How can you argue that the framework of the election-referendum ratio in one law is more special than the other, since there is a provision adopted that elections and referendums are held separately and the other law states that if the initiative, the proposal is within the last year, it is joined by the upcoming elections? In this case, it is about two logically conflicting provisions, norms that have equivalent weight, but point to two opposing actions. That's what I'm talking about. I therefore urge you to look for a way out of this situation. The authorisation cannot be done by virtue of the principle of the ratio between a general and a special law. It may be necessary to say in which cases or at the discretion of whom or in which referendum initiatives this rule is not mandatory. I say again: if you leave things like this, it means that each institution should assess which of the two provisions to apply..................... whether to apply the Election Code or the Law of Direct Participation. In addition, there is another issue regarding the upcoming referendum. The National Assembly adopts a decision to hold a referendum, and the President only sets the date of the referendum. I'm not wrong, am I, by memory I'm saying this because the question just came up right now? I call on you to find a solution that will be non-controversial and to make it clear what is to come in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u333	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. The line is Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u334	Dear Mr. Stoilov, colleagues! I thought I made myself clear. We want in the Law on Direct Participation, where the special norms are, the regime to remain as it is currently in force, not to change it with the Election Code in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Since this morning the meeting has been interrupted twice because of the thunder, the thunder of your colleagues. Here we were accused of all possible sins for profit in elections, manipulations, forgery and so on. In order to cast any doubt that none of us wants this, I suggested that we do not change any rules in the Law on Direct Participation. However, since there is an active, promulgated law in force, where it is explicitly said that the referendum is produced at the same time as a national election in the same year, except for the partial elections, let us not touch this. This is what we want the special law to remain. As a lawyer you know very well that the special law has priority over the general law. I do not hold that Parliament on the first day of § 2, at the beginning of the Code, we have adopted another provision, but it is already in clear contradiction with a special law currently in force. That's before he came out of plenary the entire draft Election Code. Why create in legal peace opposition that imposes additional interpretations? It would be the cleanest if we would just cancel this provision, as Mr. Slavov suggested, so there would be no doubt. My intention, my desire, at least at the end, to vote on the plenary day, is to make it clear to all political forces that no one wants power, with majority, with forgeries to impose something that they have not thought about. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u335	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Here's your coat, Mr. Stoilov. [[Loud noise and lines. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov and Martin Dimitrov are busy talking to the banks.]] I'm asking for order in this room. Mr. Dimitrov, Mr. Lazarov, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u336	Ms. Tsacheva, our objections were due to the preparation of the voting proposals and the claim that this is due to an additional report. In this case, let's not mix the two topics. I understand that you are proposing now that a vote in the Election Code be repealed at second reading? Isn't that what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u337	Yes, because it relates to the basic text of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u338	Yes, then you accept my objection that the rule of general and special law is not applicable in this case, because these two provisions have the same degree of specificity. However, one says that elections and referendums are not made together, and the other provision in the other law says otherwise. If you cancel this provision, this logical contradiction that I am talking about, and which is insurmountable, will be dismissed. However, then the other question arises: once it is finally voted at second reading, is it admissible for its annulment because we are entering a vicious circle of which there is no way out and until the vote is finished, is it not clear that other texts will not be reworded? Then another matter of procedural nature arises, which is additional to the subject under discussion. What will remain as a question, in view of our experience of previous combination of elections and referendums, is when there are elections and voting on so many issues, can they be conducted in a way that will not make people difficult and make the election process too difficult? We've already experienced this, but it's an extra topic that I don't want to go into right now. After all, you complete this bill and you have the last word to decide what you will do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u339	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Procedure supplied by the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u340	Dear Mr. Chairman, these representatives of the opposition, of the Reformation bloc, of GERB were expressed. I think we don't need to debate anymore, which is why I suggest we call off the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u341	A reverse opinion? National Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u342	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor because it's important and I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. The colleague Slavov was not fully comprehensive, but should in art. 5 the new sentence second to be deleted, honourable Members, since...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u343	When we get to art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u344	...we were brought by the BSP into a problem that we need to solve. So I'm doing a reverse procedure to pay attention to what needs to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u345	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Lazarov to end the debate. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 94, against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support, but... [[Elevator bell dings]] It's up to the court. 100 MPs voted: 96, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. In this case, the text of the Commission is removed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u346	Mr. Valeri Simeonov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u347	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the procedure is in the manner of conduct. I would like to express my outrage at the way Mrs. Tsacheva and Mr. Glauchev, who did not find it necessary to pay tribute to the people, thanks to whose dedicated work we voted on this Bill. Danail Kirilov, Iva Miteva and the colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u348	We're not done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u349	It doesn't matter. I hope we applaud the work of these people. [[Applause from GERB, PF and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u350	Mr. Simeonov, I accept your remark in the manner of conduct. I make a commitment in every vote in favour of our fellow Members' work to express my gratitude. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u351	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, I ask for more patience. Since we have already voted on the rejection of § 202, we have to go back to the proposal in § 2, that is to say, to rethink Mikhail Mikov's proposal in art. 5 for the creation of a sentence second, namely: The production of choice and voting in a national referendum on the same day is not allowed. I ask that this procedural proposal of mine be put to the vote to return to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u352	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 96 MPs: 93 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u353	Under § 2.. Mihail Mikov's proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "No choice and voting is allowed in a national referendum on the same day. " The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u354	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u355	Which vote is that? Third vote on a motion adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u356	Vote 96 MPs: 2 against 83, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Here I thank the Legal Commission and Mr Kirilov as President for the correct proposal of the Commission, and I take the blame of all our colleagues who did not comply with the Commission's proposal the first time. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u357	Madam President, please report the last paragraph. [[Radio.]] Under § 203, there is a proposal from Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: s. § 197, p. 3 and 4 shall enter into force from 1 July 2016 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 203, which shall become the relevant paragraph and be renumbered: ????????????????? The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-28.u358	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tanev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. It proposes to enter into force from 1 July 2016. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 106 MPs: for 4, against 86, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 203, the Commission's proposal, namely: We vote. They voted 106 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, this concludes the vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. We have a law already passed. I wish everyone once again a bright Easter and St. George's Day holidays! The next regular plenary session shall be on 11 May 2016 at 9.00 pm. First Wednesday in May. The programme shall be formed in accordance with the procedure of rotation by the parliamentary groups with proposals under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure and blitz control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[cheering, applause.]]
