ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, I have received a report from the rapporteur, "The Vice-President of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Svetlana Angelova, with the following content: When reporting a second vote on 14 April 2016 on the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015, in the text read in accordance with the Commission's report on a proposal under Paragraph 5 of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the word "supplied' was expressed. In consultation with the importers and on the basis of art. 72, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask for your order to be added to § 5 after the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, I would like to remind you on the day yesterday when the Bill was voted on on a proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs in the Final Provisions is created a new § 5 with the following content. This is adopted by the Commission and it offers us the creation of a new § 5, which reads: .................................................................................. In the Law on Protection against Discrimination (prom., SG...) in art. 7, para. 1 is created t. 20: It's 20. the temporary incentive applied in accordance with the Law on Equality of Women and Men. Yesterday in the vote, I noted that the phrase was not finished. They convinced me that's how it was supposed to be. It became clear that it shouldn't be like this. That's why I'm voting now. 20 with the following editing: It's 20. the temporary incentive measures implemented under the Law on Equality of Women and Men. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 139 MPs: 133, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The date of adoption of this Bill will be considered today " 15 April 2016. Two messages. By letter No 654-00-64 of 14 April 2016, on the basis of art. 82 of the Parliamentary Representatives Plamen Yordanov, Kiril Dobrev, Neno Vlaikov, Manoil Manev and Dragomir Stoinev inform me that they withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act by No 654-01-27. On 13 April 2016, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 4 for 2016 of the Constitutional Court on Constitutional Case No 10 of 2015. The Constitutional Court ruled at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and established an anti-constitution of art. 29, para. 2, para. 3 and para. 4 as well as Art. 30, para. 1 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Colleagues, the debate took place yesterday and it was closed at point 6: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA IN THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC SPACE, THE THREE RELATED TO IT AND THE FINAL ACT TO THE AGREEMENT The vote is announced to take place at the beginning of today's plenary session, so I am putting to the first vote a bill ratifying the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area (EEA), the three related additional protocols and the final act to the Agreement. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u2	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of the National Assembly, I propose that a bill ratifying the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area (EEA), the three related additional protocols and the final act of the Agreement, No 602-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 March 2016, be adopted on a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm putting the procedure to the vote. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u4	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area (EEA), the three related additional Protocols and the Final Act to the Agreement A single member. The Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the European Union (EU) on the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2009-2014 following the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EEA, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Iceland following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Norway following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and the Final Act to the Agreement signed by the Bulgarian side on 10 December 2014 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u5	Statements on the second vote? I won't. I put to the second vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Participation Agreement of the Republic of Croatia. We vote. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The ratification was adopted unanimously in the second vote. The next item in our weekly program is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE EURO MEDITERRANEAN AGREEMENT IN THE AREA OF AIRCRAFT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THEIR Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's been reports from committees. There is no report only from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Ananiev, please submit the report to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to make a procedure for admission in the hall of Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, and Eleonora Dobreva, Chief Expert at the General Directorate of the Civil Aviation Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u7	We vote. Vote 117 MPs: 115, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u8	♪ I can't believe on a draft law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602 02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 6 April 2016, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Eleonora Dobreva, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service and Financial and Business at the General Directorate of the Civil Aviation Administration, who presented the Law. The legal basis for ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, is art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Jordan, was signed on 15 December 2010 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. At present, air services between individual Member States of the European Union and Jordan operate bilateral agreements. Part of the European Union's policy is to replace this system of bilateral agreements with the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean aviation space between Europe and its Mediterranean partners. In this sense, the provisions of this Agreement replace existing bilateral air services agreements between the Parties and ensure the gradual creation of a common aviation space between the European Union and Jordan. The signing of the Agreement provides for Jordan to adopt European Union legislation in important areas such as safety, security and air traffic management. The agreement allows its conditions to be both valid in the 27 Member States of the European Union, applying uniform rules without discrimination and for the benefit of all Union air carriers, irrespective of their nationality. These carriers will be free to provide services from any point in the European Union to any point in Jordan. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 10 votes for the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemitic Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u9	Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At its meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Transport and Acting Director of the Office of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mr. Vanyo Todorov, Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova. The conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, in the field of aviation, contributes to the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Area, based on the principles of regulatory convergence and cooperation and the liberalisation of market access. The agreement is intended to replace existing bilateral air service agreements between the Member States of the European Union and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemitic Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u12	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part. The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement also provides that the rules and provisions of the European Union on air transport are to apply in Jordan. They will replace existing bilateral air service agreements between individual Member States of the European Union. The removal of market access restrictions between the European Union and Jordan will attract new market participants. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Yordanova, summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u14	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill cited above. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u15	Thank you. We also have to hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u16	Madam President! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, No 602-02-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 6 April 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Valeri Borisov. The agreement provides access to trade opportunities for air carriers from the European Union, such as the possibility of free pricing. One of the further objectives of the mandate is to establish a level playing field between all air carriers from the European Union and Jordan, and this requires close regulatory cooperation that can only be achieved at European Union level. Member States will continue to carry out the usual administrative activities carried out in the context of international air transport, but following common and uniform rights. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 10 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt, on the one hand, the Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Mr. Ananiev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be adopted in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u19	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ananiev to adopt this bill in two votes in a plenary session. Vote 104 MPs: for 101, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening to your second reading report, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u20	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement in the field of aviation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part A single member. It ratifies the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemitic Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, signed on 15 December 2010 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Colleagues, second reading speeches? I won't. I put to the second vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The ratification law is adopted in a second vote. The next item in our weekly program is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COMMISSION'S LAW-PRODUCE FOR DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR STATEMENT OF THE PRESENCE OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE RECOGNITION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers ".. Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers.? Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal that point nine be removed from our weekly programme, as the bill that we have tabled with a group of MPs has not been viewed in the main internal committee. I don't think this is right. It is about regulation of matter, which will benefit all Bulgarian citizens. On that basis, I request that the point be dropped. We have agreed by the members of the Internal Commission and its chairman to look at the point in the coming weeks, then to look at all the bills, as is tradition and according to the National Assembly's Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u23	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I oppose this proposal with a reverse view. I believe that the bill that we have tabled with colleagues Andreev and Martin Dimitrov is from last year - November, and it is really time to consider it. It is very important and, according to our Rules, it should have been in plenary a long time ago. He was seen in the Commission, even received a positive opinion from the Commission. As for the bill that colleague Merdjanov commented on, it was submitted relatively soon, it can safely wait for its order and only then be considered. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] In order to reassure him, since he largely overlaps with what Mr. Velizar Enchev proposed, that is, he wants to close the so-called "Commission on the files" again, it seems to me that the report would largely be the same, and Mr. Enchev's Bill has a report. I suggest we continue to look at the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u25	Honourable Members of Parliament, I shall put to the vote the procedural motion to drop the item. Nine of our weekly program. Vote 109 MPs: 96 against 7, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Defence. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The Law on Electronic Governance, No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 23 March 2015, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance was discussed, No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs; and Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. Mrs. Bachvarova noted that the proposed draft law aims to improve the institutional framework for electronic governance. At present, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is conducting state policy in the field of information and communication technologies and e-government. The proposed amendments provide for the establishment of the State Agency for Electronic Governance, to which state functions in the field of electronic management, electronic identification, information security in administrations will be transferred, as well as some of the functions in the field of information and communication technologies. The State Agency will be established at the Council of Ministers on the basis of the Department of Electronic Management and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and of the Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems. The activities, the structure, the organisation of work and the composition of the agency will be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers. The State Agency will be headed and represented by a President appointed by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The new structure will have the functions of developing, imposing and controlling regulations, policies, rules and good practices, coordination of sectoral policies, as well as maintaining centralised registers and systems for the needs of electronic governance. The draft provides for the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" to participate in the budget process by reviewing compliance with the established policies, strategic documents and programmes, giving guidance, issuing orders and agreeing the allocation of the budget approved by the Minister of Finance in the field of electronic management and information and communication technologies of all administrations. The body which is established will have strong powers in the field of electronic management and the use of ICT by administrative authorities and their administrations, including for issuing binding orders and instructions to all administrations. The State Agency will have a number of new powers to impose uniform policies, standards and standard requirements in relation to the purchase of assets, development of information systems and prioritization in the electronicization of services. The bill proposes that the State Agency "E-Management" should exercise the state's ownership rights as planned for the establishment of a State-owned company "Unified System Operator." A single system operator will carry out three types of activities: supporting the Chair of the Agency in the exercise of its powers; providing services supporting administrations in the performance of their public functions through internal procurement and activities on the free market. After the presentation of the bill was held a discussion in which the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Iskren Veselinov, Pavel Hristov and Ivan Valkov took part. Questions were discussed on the need to transfer state functions in the field of electronic management by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to the intended establishment of the State Agency. The importers have clarified that the current model of an organisation is decentralised and is therefore ineffective. The creation of the new structure will lead to better coordination and better functionality, as decisions in the field of electronic management will be taken from a higher hierarchy level. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. At its meetings held on 16 December 2015 and on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance No 502-01-96 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. The meetings were attended by: Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior; Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; from the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova; Mr. Anton Gerunov, Head of Cabinet; Mrs. Kalina Konstantinova; Mrs. Bozidar Bozhanov and Mrs. Kalina Cherneva, and Mr. Atanas Slavov. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. She pointed out that it aims to improve and optimize the e-government process with the establishment of the State Agency. It is envisaged that the state agency will be set up at the Council of Ministers as the organisation of the activity and its composition are defined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers. The State Agency will carry out preliminary, current and subsequent controls on the substance and, where appropriate, e-government projects and activities. The establishment of the Agency is expected to facilitate coordination between all state authorities and reduce the funds spent in the field of e-government. A single system operator is expected to assist the Chair of the Agency and the administration in implementing their powers, as well as to ensure constant monitoring of shared information resources and to manage maintenance services performed by private sector companies. The bill provides for the provision of transparent controls on the substance of budgetary planning in the field of electronic management and the use of information and communication technologies in the activities of administrative authorities and their administrations. The discussion was attended by the MPs Chetin Kazak, Hamid Hamid, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Lazarov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Svilen Ivanov. In the course of the discussion Mr. Kazak expressed his opinion that the Bill provides for changes in the overall state policy and organisational structure in the field of e-government, for which there should be a strong justification. Mr. Dimitrov expressed doubts about the need to close a structure and create a new one. Mr. Ivanov recalled the long-standing efforts to create e-government in Bulgaria and pointed out that the draft proposed concrete measures to implement the objectives of e-government. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the European Parliament, without the vote of 2 votes for the European Parliament, proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is a report from the Defence Committee. The President of the Commission has the floor spoke Miho Mihov. Here you are, General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Electronic Governance No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 3 December 2015, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. 13 MPs took part in the meeting. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev, Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Deputy Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Konstantin Popov, Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova and experts from the Ministry of Defence were present. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented to the members of the Commission by the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev, who explained the motives of the Council of Ministers. In their speeches, the MPs united around the view that the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance was drawn up under the Concept for the Establishment of the State Agency of Electronic Governance, adopted by Decision of Protocol No 23 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2015. The draft aims to improve the institutional framework for e-government, which includes the establishment of the State Agency.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Defence Committee supports the decision to set up the State Agency on the basis of the Department of Electronic Management and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems. The Commission considers that the proposed unification removes the duplication of infrastructure and systems that the two government bodies have built and will limit and eliminate uncoordinated policies for the electronicisation of services for institutions and the population. The Defence Committee maintains a similar approach to centralisation and coordination, leading to optimization of electronic management and electronic services processes and improvement of control over activities and funds allocated to them. The bill also removes a number of obstacles to the implementation of electronic governance through amending provisions in a number of laws which have so far been contrary to basic concepts of electronic governance and have hindered the principle of single gathering information and its repeated use. With their acceptance, the existing ones in art. 40 of the Law, as in the obligation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications remain to coordinate with the Minister of Defence the issues of organizing and directing postal and electronic communications networks to bring the armed forces to higher levels of readiness and to notify the provision of the armed forces and the country in peaceful and military times. The "Electronic management" transfers responsibility for the construction and maintenance of special sites for defence needs, the electronic facilities installed for defence needs at management stations and communications networks for peaceful and military time. According to the Defence Committee, the proposed redistribution of responsibilities does not adversely affect security and defence, while at the same time facilitating the Ministry of Defence in the construction and maintenance of special sites, management stations and electronic communications network for defence needs. The Defence Committee considers the Ministry of Defence's proposals for amendments to § 48 of the Draft Law to art. 40 of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, to be submitted to the leading committee between the first and second votes. After the discussion was concluded, 13 MPs took part in the vote. As a result of the vote, the Defence Committee, with 9 votes, 1 vote against the Council and 3 votes abstentions, adopted the following decision: it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote an amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. Thank you, dear General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u31	An importer's opinion? There is no representative of the Council of Ministers. The debate is open. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Anyone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The electronic government and e-government is a topic that has been actively discussed for 15 years. Huge funds have been spent, but as if the results are not clearly defined and hard to see. What was missing so far was the centralised, integrated and coordinated approach in the construction of all public administration systems. During the discussion in the Transport Committee, it became clear that maybe 3 billion have been spent in the last 15 years. lv. so far, for various departments, structures, administrations, but, anyway, we do not currently have a single approach to achieving effective electronic governance. What is currently proposed in the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance solves precisely these problems. The creation of centralised structures will bring together all efforts, resources and resources, will lead to a truly coordinated approach, to a real-time connection of the various institutions, and most of all we will know after the six-month period proposed in the Audit Act for all existing information systems in the country, where we are, what efforts are needed and what means to finally complete this dream, called................................................................... What we will achieve by accepting the Law at least on the basis of the analyses that have been presented to us are savings of about 1.1 billion. lv. on an annual basis, and this is very easy to calculate, as only the human hours that will be reduced for various administrative services and duplication of functions are perhaps over 10 million man hours. Separate exchange of paper documentation, the exchange of duplicate information between departments will also lead to savings, so we can easily see where these funds come from. The law creates wonderful conditions for developing information technology for the needs of the state. Bulgaria will also give a clear signal to the Information and Communication Technologies Sector in the country that the state is finally willing to work in a modern way, a way in which many countries have been working for many years and we may be quite late. But, anyway, the law is very well written, it shows the expert approach in it. I call on all Members in this House to support it, as we will finally achieve an effective, working unit that will deal with the problems facing the electronic governance of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Christov. A line to Mr. Hristov's statement? I won't. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? You have the floor, colleagues! I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. My fellow Members, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 502-01-96, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Honourable Members, we are moving to the last item on the agenda of the sitting, namely: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELP FOR CHILDREN. Importers are Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs, 14 October 2015. Dear Mr. Stoinev, please submit the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u34	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it is unnecessary even to go into the motives of the Bill, because it is our struggle, which has been since October. This Bill will enter the plenary, and I am really glad that today we have finally succeeded, thanks to your support, which means that this Bill will be adopted at first reading. Because both we and you understand how necessary it is to help families who raise children with disabilities. A bill that wants to in some way, not in any way, but directly bind the child benefit to be equal to 70% of the minimum wage. An unwritten rule that has always been followed when BSP was in power, and when it is in opposition, this compensation has always been frozen. We want to bring order once and for all. We're talking about an extra BGN 56. to these 238 BGN, who are currently receiving families of children with disabilities, to really help their existence, because those mothers who have sacrificed their professional development, many of them have even sacrificed their lives, they are devoted only to their children, these mothers have not abandoned their children to the state, namely they want to raise them in an environment that is truly worthy, and I think it is normal and from the way a government and a country treats people with disabilities, shows what society we live in. That is why I am very confident and I am sure that you will support the Bill at first reading. It is true that the Budget and Finance Committee is incomprehensible to me why it has not pronounced itself on such an important, substantial bill, but, of course, so have colleagues and the President of the Commission. But I believe that all of us can unite and show that when it comes to helping these people, we can not part in the left, right and center, but do something good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. However, there is one report from a committee and this is the report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mrs. Angelova will present it to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending The Family Aid Act for Children No 554-01-164, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 18 November 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015. The meeting was attended by experts from the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Assistance and Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Georgi Gokov of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. The changes suggest determining the minimum size of the monthly supplement for raising a child with disabilities as not less than 70 percent of the minimum wage for the country for the relevant year. The aim of the proposal is to support the higher costs and efforts of families to raise children with permanent disabilities by 18 years of age and to complete secondary education, but not later than 20 years of age, and to ensure a secure minimum threshold of assistance for parents who have assumed responsibility to raise their children in a family environment. In this way, security will be made with regard to the amount of family support for this vulnerable social group and will encourage the raising of children with disabilities in a family environment. According to importers, this type of monthly supplement covers about 22 thousand children and the additional funds from the state budget needed to implement the measure will amount to about 7 million. lv. Annually. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill by stressing the fact that all family aid to children with permanent disabilities is granted without a benefit test and under a light regime, and that these aids are significantly higher than the amount of support for children without disabilities due to the priority of this vulnerable group of children and their families. At the same time, family benefits, including the monthly supplement under art. 8e of the Children's Family Aid Act, are not bound by the work or the child's contribution. In this regard, the Ministry considers that the commitment of social payments to employment is not legally justified, which is why no such payment is dependent on the amount of the minimum wage for the country. In addition, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy data, 24 946 children were supported on average in 2014 and for the first half of 2015 their average monthly number increased to 25 612 children, which exceeded the data and estimated funds needed to secure the bill provided by the importer. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill by believing that when determining the support of families in raising a child with permanent disabilities, a basic criterion should not be the minimum wage, which in essence constitutes a unit of measure for the cost of employment and depends on the economic dynamics of the country at a given time. The Ministry recalls that, following the regulatory changes made in 2011, no social payments are currently being linked to a certain economic indicator. According to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, with minimum wage for the country of 420 BGN. For 2016, the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the proposed measure will lead to additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of around 16 million. BGN, which are not estimated in the draft state budget for 2016 In its opinion, the State Agency for Child Protection notes that the desired positive result with the proposed legislative change, namely an increase in the amount of the supplement under art. 8e of the SAP could also be achieved in the course of the current text of the provision of para. 2 by betting a higher nominal amount of the supplement in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Agency calls on institutions' efforts to ensure better financial conditions for raising children with disabilities to be targeted at structuring and adopting the state budget for 2016. In the course of the discussion it was expressed that, given the lack of legal connection between the minimum wage and social payments, an adequate indicator of the proportionality of these payments should be the poverty threshold. A proposal was also made to increase the nominal value of the aid for raising children with permanent disabilities in the state budget. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft amending the Family Aid Act for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to take part in it? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the motives of October, and almost all of mine are public, but to explain where the difference comes from, as in the reasons we bet 7 million. BGN, and with today's date they become 14 million. lv. This is because in October 2015, the minimum wage was different. Now that it has increased to 420 BGN, which we support and I am glad that yesterday the Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev said that it is not normal in Bulgaria to have such a minimum wage, it has clearly shown that this is the way. Our desire with this Bill is to help families who live in an extremely difficult situation. I understand some MPs who love charity. A municipality a few days ago was colored in a certain color just to show how empathetic we are. Our desire as MPs is with the button to legitimize justice, something that all mothers expect and will not be a burden on the budget. At second reading, we need to specify exactly how it should be, if something is accidentally needed to be redesigned. I think it's nice to be tied to the minimum wage. Don't listen to the World Bank. If we listened to her about everything, I think we'd have a lot of negative results. This is a measure that has acted over the years and has shown its positive effect. It's predictable. People know exactly what awaits them when the minimum wage increases. We do not offer anything new, but we simply propose that an existing practice continue. I assure you that thousands of mothers, thousands of families will welcome with relief and satisfaction this proposal, this vote of ours. It is true that no huge effect can be expected, but it will show our attitude to the families who, again, are raising their children in extremely difficult and difficult conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u39	Any lines to Mr. Stoinev? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u40	Thank you, Madam President. We will support the bill. However, it is only right to say some things that I hope Members of Parliament will accept by voting to show their attitude towards people with disabilities. The Bulgarian state, Bulgarian politicians, MPs from several national meetings are outstanding debtors to these people! Unfortunately, however, honourable Members, these people are not interested in politicians for a few simple reasons. First, they are the most defenseless part of Bulgarian society. Secondly, due to the lack of infrastructure for disabled people, the vast majority of them are practically forced to live a closed life, i.e. they cannot even go and exercise their right to vote. For this reason, they are not interested in politicians because they are simply not voters. Why should they be paid attention?! However, I will give you some interesting facts that may move people and realize that no one is insured to fall into the condition of a disabled person, a wheelchair person. Even here in the National Assembly, if you take a walk, you will see that architecture is not suitable for people who have to move in a wheelchair. Even here in the National Assembly! Six years and over, people with impaired hearing and speech still don't have access to 112. It is not uniform as an official language the language of gestures, that is, so much we care about these people that I have nothing left but to call you today without much debate to support the Bill, because we owe it to them, as we did for war veterans. It is a gesture, a view of the state, of the supreme authority in the face of the National Assembly that it has finally looked at these people. Nevertheless, I will definitely say that what is proposed in the Bill is not enough, but is still a step in the direction that should have been taken long ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u41	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, a very heartbreaking statement, but I would like to return you to the Bill itself, because we are currently looking at the PID of the Family Aid Act for children, where importers offer the commitment of the assistance under art. 8e of the Family Aids Act for children with the minimum wage, and you talked all the time about the necessary services, care and policies that the state must make with regard to people with disabilities. Children with disabilities are a special group that really deserves very special attention. In this regard, in the years back, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has adopted a number of policies to support parents and children with disabilities. At present, there are about 25 thousand. I would just like to remind you that a few years ago, under the Family Aid Act, the parents of disabled children were exempted from an income criterion. Children with disabilities also receive double supplements. However, it is important that not only parents of disabled children are provided with financial assistance, but it is more important that children with disabilities have a place to visit social services, because they need not only financial resources but also many educational, social and health services.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u43	Second line? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u44	First, I would like to thank Mr. Bayraktarov for supporting the bill. Mr. Bajraktarov, you understand that when the State Budget Act introduced the proposal in absolute value to be equal to BGN 298 without being linked to the minimum wage, it was still not accepted. Now, if this is the main argument for not being the minimum wage, then I ask: which is it? So maybe you can answer me, but I think your understanding is like my understanding better to bind him so that these people have predictability and not whoever comes to power he decides what their destiny will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u45	Third line? A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Stoinev, I think the answer was in your line. I have made it very precise and clear that even what you are proposing is insufficient, but it is still a step in the right direction. And from now on, I will repeat myself again, given that a number of national meetings, a number of governments are hugely indebted to these people, I think the debate is unnecessary. As for Mrs. Angelova's reply, Mrs. Angelova, in my speech, I merely pointed out a number of examples in which we are still indebted to these people, and given that this is a statement on the philosophy of the Bill, your reply once again showed that you either were not paying attention or you were not listening, or you just spoke and made a reply to be just like that in the lines. It's not good, it doesn't make sense. Once again, I think that there is no need for a debate, but we must morally support this bill. And I would even ask the President of the National Assembly to invite the Members of the National Assembly to come to the Chamber because, unfortunately, the House is now half empty. There'll probably be a vote any minute now. So let us show with more voices that a National Assembly has finally looked at these people. That's what I wanted to tell you. I'm sure you'll agree with what I'm saying we're all in debt. I'm glad we're on the same page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u47	The word for it is Mr. Kenov. He made a request. He's not in the room. Mr. Ademov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we from our Parliamentary Group will support the proposed bill because out of doubt is the fact that the families of disabled children deserve State support. Whether they are 25 612, whether they are an average year a little bit more or less, this is the smaller problem. The bigger problem, in my opinion, which needs to be solved between first and second readings, is in two directions. First of all, the problem of the Public Finance Act must be overcome. It is said that in the middle of the year no financial commitments can be made for the same year if they are not provided for in the State Budget Act. Once again, this is a problem that can be overcome because it is not about such a large resource by the end of the year. This one first. Colleagues correctly submitted the Bill because it was submitted in the course of the budget procedure at the end of last year. Therefore, this aspect of the problem is not reflected in the proposed bill. The second problem that needs to be solved is, in my opinion, the more important problem is whether social payments in Bulgaria should be tied to the minimum wage. And if it does, wouldn't that be a reason not to increase the minimum wage further. This is a very important issue that needs to be resolved................................................................................................... Colleagues, I see you're smiling without knowing the budget forecast for the next three years. In the next three years, I am talking about 2017, 2018 and 2019, very recently the Finance Minister said that in 2017 an increase in the minimum wage of 460 BGN is envisaged until in 2018 and 2019 such an increase is envisaged. So let's tie her to the minimum wage, there's no point. That's what I wanted to say, and I think that's the correct approach. If the National Assembly supports this Bill, these two problems must be solved because without their resolution, the Ministry of Finance, agree that it will not agree in any way. So my request is now to support this Bill and then to think about these two very important aspects, in my opinion. Without solving these issues, we will in practice not be correct enough, on the one hand, to the families of disabled children and, on the other hand, to the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u49	Any lines to Mr. Ademov? First line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dr. Ademov, I am taking a line on what you said at the end of your speech about making social payments with the minimum wage. You also raised the question that it is high time to resolve this issue categorically, namely all social payments to be bound by the minimum wage, because the minimum wage is another measure. It is an economic measure, not a social measure. But I would like to remind you that in 2011 during the government of Borisov this was done and all social payments were tied to the minimum wage, so for this reason we cannot accept this approach and go back to binding social payments to the minimum wage. This was already adopted in 2011.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u51	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ademov. Before that, let's congratulate the students from Sofia High School of Construction, Architecture and Geodesy who are visiting the National Assembly today. [[Applause.]] We're listening to your ass, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Angelova, what is written in the report that the commitment of the minimum salary from social payments has started since 2011 is true insofar as this commitment of the minimum wage to social payments continued in 2011. I can tell you quite rightly that this started somewhere at 2007. 2008 because this cannot be a single act and this was a proposal of the International Monetary Fund and not of your government and not of Minister Djankov. That's the smaller problem. The important problem, I said for a reason, is to solve this issue once and for all. If we cannot tie these payments to the minimum wage, which, in my opinion, is the right approach, it is better within the framework of the State Budget Act to offer a nominal increase each year depending on the budget's capabilities. So the issue of tying social payments to the minimum wage, I think, has long been solved. Now, the question is to decide how we should only help these families with money, because this is one of the instruments, as you said just now. There are many other tools for which, as Mr. Bayraktarov, the National Assembly said, and we are all indebted to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u53	Mrs. Mariana Todorova has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! And from ABB we will support our proposed Bill because we believe that we need to show this gesture to the families of disabled children. We have also thought in this direction and have prepared our version of a bill, but we have not deposited it, because we believe that first the procedure for determining disability must be changed, because we must say it frankly, there are a lot of abuses in this area. Along with children who really need and have proven disabilities, there are whole villages, areas in which territorial disability is concentrated and diseases are quite impractical.. It is said that they are with respiratory, epileptic diseases. We see that these are whole areas that make us doubt. Minister Ivaylo Kalfin is therefore in an advanced procedure of this reform, with a new concept for determining disability. The only thing that has led us to wait to propose an increase in this amount is that we believe that the reform must first be made, that the abuse of those who have a real need should be taken away from throwing funds for unfair abuse. But we share the philosophy of that the means must be more. Today we will support this Bill and between first and second reading will we really think about whether the mechanism for binding to the minimum wage is the best, or should we think about some other mechanism, because we, too, at the ABB, share that when we bind social payment to the minimum wage, this leads to its freezing and increasing the working poor. But we will support and think about another mechanism for increasing the funds for children with disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u55	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I ask the Members of the National Assembly, as asked me to make Mr. Bayraktarov enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted by Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015. They voted 83 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from the left block.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u56	Madam President, I propose a re-vote procedure because I could not vote. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from the left block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u57	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u58	Stanislav, don't embarrass yourself! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u59	That's cynical! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u60	Colleagues, please, no noise in the hall. They voted 83 MPs: 68, against 1, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. [[Radio, lines and applause from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, we have implemented the legislative part of our weekly program. Abort until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u61	Colleagues, the sitting continues with parliamentary control. New questions concerning the period from 8 April to 14 April 2016: - an inquiry was made by the National Representative Antoni Trenchev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, concerning the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the so-called offshore companies. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 April this year; - Asked by the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister, about the overall foreign and internal policy of the government regarding current issues concerning basic values defining the creation and existence of the European Union. The reply should be made in writing by 28 April 2016. Written answers to service: - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Valeri Simeonov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - written answer from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - written answer of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - written answer from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Silvia Hubenova; - written answer from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Boris Stanimirov; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. Honourable MPs, parliamentary control today starts with the answers of Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. Procedure, then a declaration from a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Tsacheva, my procedure is to you as President of the National Assembly and it is for you to pay attention to the ministers to respectfully treat the MPs, answering their questions. This action is caused by two questions asked by me to Minister Lilyana Pavlova, who, taking into account what you have repeatedly made a remark about, given the volume of information, I have asked for a written answer. I want to tell you that what I have received is a mockery to me, as a Member of the National Assembly, and hence to the National Assembly. I cannot accept that the question I have asked on March 18th is not pleasant to the Ministry and to you, but to the question that I have asked about the value of public procurements that have a company called Agromah. I don't know what they have to postpone their reply to, but I get three sentences that are the following: The answer I received is 13 links. I get delayed once and then I get 13 links. I suppose you know the MPs and you have no doubt that we can read the websites, including the public procurement site, but the point of asking questions is to see the Minister's attitude towards the subject being raised. My request is: pay attention to the second question about Agromach and there the answer is the same, as they finished two sections of two highways [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and I still want to answer that the information is public about the additional contracts awarded. I know that the sum of these amounts is hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u63	Time's up, Mr. Boychev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u64	Okay. If you want, I can show you what the minister's answer looks like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u65	Dear Mr. Boychev, in a procedure in the manner in which the President, who is in charge of the respective plenary sitting, shall be made comments on whether specific rules of our Rules have been violated. You yourself stated that this was a written answer that was admitted. The Minister's right is to postpone the answer by seven days, and the fact that you disagree with the way in which you are answered, you have the opportunity to request further explanations for information that is not public, that is, cannot be found on the website of the ministry concerned. You yourself admitted that the MPs are literate enough and can reach out to information that is public. I do not accept your procedure in the manner of conduct as valid. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u66	The delegation of power On April 10, 2016 the pro-Turkish party The Ataka Party is very concerned about the creation of a neo-Osmanian party in Bulgaria under the Turkish name DST. We are also outraged by the inaction of the Bulgarian law enforcement institutions in the face of another aggressive act of Ankara aimed at the territorial integrity and national security of Bulgaria. What the founders, the founders of this party, their followers with Bulgarian passports and their Turkish mentors call it a political party, is a frank masha of Turkish separatism in Bulgaria and its carriers do not hide it. On the contrary, they state it loudly at their meetings and in front of Bulgarian and foreign media, and even in the Bulgarian Parliament. They also showed it at their founding coven at the National Palace of Culture on April 10th this year. The evidence is indisputable. The founding of the SOT party was Hippossed by a representative of one of the most discredited neo-Nazi groups in the Middle East, the deputy member of the Turkish Maglis Edip Semih Yalcun, vice-president of the Nationalist Action Party, more known as the legitimate political facade of the neo-Nazi group of the Grey Wolves, said: "Where Turkish language is spoken, there is our home country and was loudly applauded by 1103 founders. He also applauded Turkish Ambassador Suleiman Gokce. Yes, there are settlements in Bulgaria that speak Turkish, which means only one request of the guest is an open declaration of war for the annexation of Bulgarian territories in which Turkish language is spoken to Yalcun's homeland. However, in order not to misunderstand what is the ultimate goal of the new party, the guest added that, I quote: the DEST will shape the bilateral relations between Turkey and Bulgaria, based on this commitment. The official declaration of this.. the accession of the Bulgarian territories outlined by Yalcun to Turkey is sufficient grounds for prosecution of the participants in the founding assembly of STU and its members, who, by the way, rushed to pledge allegiance to the doctrine - the doctrine of the Grey Wolves, the terrorist wing of the Nationalist Action Party, to which Yalcun is the chairman. As such, he is a party chief, for example, of Tugrul Turkesh, the son of Colonel Alparslan Turkesh, the founder of both the Grey Wolves and the Nationalist Action Party. The events that, like mileage stones, outline the bloody trail of this tandem, a terrorist organization plus a political organization, have no analog in the civilized world. I'll only list a dozen of them: - the military coup in 1960 was led personally by Alparslan Turkesh and began with the execution of the Prime Minister, the Foreign and Finance Minister of Turkey and ended with hundreds of people killed with gunshot and torture; - the mass shooting of peaceful demonstrators in the square of Taksim. s 42 killed; - the outstanding shootings of seven students in the square of Bayazid...................... on 16 March - Bachchelievler's massacre on October 9, 1978, when the Wolves. " Abdullah Chatli and Haluk Kardzhi shot seven students at the Ankara University dorms; - the massacre of Alevis in Kahramanmarash from 19 to 26 December 1978. - 1000 killed and burned; - the murder of Abdi Ipecchi, the editor-in-chief of the newspaper, on 1 February 1979; - the assassination of Pope John Paul II on 13 May 1981, when the grey wolf-slashed Mehmet Ali Agja severely injured the Roman pontifex and then attributed the crime to Bulgaria; - the other Alevis massacre in Sivas on July 2, 1993. - 37 people who have been burned alive; - the coup attempt against Haydar Aliyev in Baku between 13 and 17 May 1995; - the incident in Susurluk on 3 November 1996 revealed the close interaction between the Grey Wolves and the Turkish security services; - the war on Nagorno Karabakh and the two Chechen wars in which members of the Nationalist Action Party participated as weapons suppliers, but also as local insurgents. - the overthrow of the Russian fighter Su-24 on 24 November 2015, the filmed and then published in....................... by the Russian fighter Su-24 on 24 November 2015........................ and then published in.....Youtubus................................... The leader of this gang, Alparslan Chelik, is a grey wolf from the town of Keban, Elazig District, in central Turkey and posed to the cameras as a Syrian rebel; - the hundreds of other murders of the peaceful Alevian (Shitish) population in the Syrian province of Latakia in the last five years by the grey wolves posing as Syrian Turkmen; - Osman Gazi, Omer Mukhtar, Rijalullah and others were composed not of Turkmen from Syria but of Turkish grey wolves. In 2015, they united in the more massive military formations with eloquent names, note: "The Brigada of Fatih Sultan Mehmet" and "The Brigada of Sultan Abdul Hamid." It's the Red Sultan, if you remember. On January 19, 2015, a little over a year ago, a film was aired to Turkey about the solemn ceremony of their unification before being re-enlisted in Syria. According to the American "Historical Dictionary of Terrorism" since 2009, this combination party plus a terrorist organization has killed 694 people in Turkey. The organization is banned in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan for a reason there are large Turk ethnic groups who become the natural target of the terrorist ideology preached by the Nationalist Action Party. The presence of one of her current leaders in the formation of the formation of DOST shows what role DOST will play in Bulgaria. To ask ourselves, which of the above can not happen to Bulgaria?! It is enough for Ankara to move the 20th terrorist camp from the Turkish-Syrian camp to the Turkish-Bulgarian border and only for hours with the help of its Trojan horse DOST to Bulgaria, our country will become a second Syria. The Vice-President of Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party Fatma Sayankaya has also spoken for 13 years. It started with the welcome of the founders of the STA from..... on behalf of President Erdogan, Prime Minister Davutoglu and the homeland........................................................................................................................................................ For the second time, it was stated by a high-ranking Turkish politician that the homeland of the members and sympathizers of DOT is not Bulgaria, that their homeland is Turkey. Davutoglu's replacement thus showed which country they should be loyal to, for whose state interests and aspirations they should work in the political field. Sayankaya also said that Ankara has been watching Mestan's struggle for recognition for years, imagine, at the Bulgarian minority rights................................. and congratulated him for what he did for the citizens of Turkish origin.. There can be no outrage of the braided in the color of Islam with a green headscarf, a guest who teaches the Bulgarians, imagine how human rights are respected. At the same time, her party is killing its own people in Anatolia. Here are just some notorious facts from the management of the neo-Osmanian Justice and Development Party (AKP): Ankara's been bombarding neighboring Iraq routine. Ankara's been bombarding neighboring Syria routine. Ankara has been bombarding and firing artillery on its own people in Anatola. In June 2015, there was a state of emergency in the districts of Jizre, Derrick, Sur, Idil and Nusaybin with a total population of more than 1 million. $100,000. Souls. The cities of Jizer and Derrick are in ruins. The peaceful inhabitants killed in their streets number hundreds. In Jizir 140 women and children, hiding in a dungeon, were burned alive. - Ankara creates, trains, arms and commands terrorist organizations such as the Islamic State and Jabhat al-Nusra for aggression against secular regimes in Syria and Iraq. Ankara is trading oil stolen from the Islamic State in the northern parts of Syria and Iraq. To this end, President Erdogan's son-in-law, Berat Albayrac, has been appointed Energy Minister. Erdogan's son Bilal is coordinating oil trafficking, weapons and jihadists for Syria and Iraq. The son traffics oil, and the one who has to regulate it, that is to stop this traffic, is his sister's husband. - Foreign journalists, who exposed the trade of the neo-Osmanist government with the Islamic State, were unceremoniously and openly killed by Turkish secret services. A tragic example of this Turkish approach is Lebanese journalist Serena Shim. - Over 400 journalists, editors, owners of media and websites [[the President signals that time has run out]] published critical material for the 13-year-old dictatorship... Thanks, I'm finishing up half a minute. They were thrown in jail. The program of the new DOT party is nothing more than the obituary of the Third Bulgarian State. That is why this party wants the closure of the Grand National Assembly so that it can change the state structure and the territory of Bulgaria. In this regard, the party "Attack" insists: 1. Ban on the newly established DOT party. 2. Addressing the Prosecutor's Office for the Anti-State Activity of Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and the other founders of the Department of Justice under Chapter 1 Crimes against the Republic. 3. The recall of Ambassador Suleiman Gokce. We say no! [[the President signals that time has run out]] of Turkish nationalism and separatistism in Bulgaria! [[Applause by "Attack" and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u67	The first question to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and Interior Minister will be asked by Mariana Todorova about the lack of staff of the Ministry of Interior in Botevgrad municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u68	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I am asking you this question on behalf of the residents of Botevgrad Municipality, who are worried that in the last ten years police officers in the municipality have progressively decreased from 130 to 25. Security and countering crime are currently being secured by only one police patrol by two people. We should note that there is a compact Roma population in the city, the surrounding villages are twelve, for which this patrol is extremely insufficient. My question is: how will the problem of the police staff's failure in the municipality of Botevgrad be solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u69	Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u70	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mrs. Todorova! I also had the opportunity to discuss this issue with the mayor of Botevgrad municipality, not only myself, but also the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior, in order to look for opportunities to overcome the problem you are paying attention to. In the whole country, the need to fill state numbers exceeds the real numbers for which we announce competitions. We are taking this decision within the framework of the budget that we have for the year in question. You know that the limits are set here, or let's call it the limits within which we can act. In practice, several times a year we announce competitions for different types of positions, taking into account the needs of the district directorates, but especially with the financial provision that we can provide for new employees after successfully passing the selection and training procedures, which lasts at least nine months. In the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Sofia, which includes the Regional Management in Botevgrad, was announced in 2015 a contest for the appointment of a state office in the Ministry of Interior of seven state units. Depending on the months, we expect their opportunity to come to work. For the current year 2016, there is an established decision to hold a contest for a total of 300 state units for the whole country, of which 120 are for the needs of the SVR. The decision was made according to the employment reduction rate of junior executive posts last year. Fourteen are the state figures for which a contest for filling the composition of the ODMVR Sofia is announced, of which four are provided for the Regional Management in Botevgrad. The Director of the Regional Directorate shall determine which districts the numbers will be allocated on the basis of necessity. The management of the ODMVR Sofia assured us that they have taken the necessary measures to overcome the imbalance created in the chamber provision, an organization has been established for the secondment of employees from the nearby district departments to ensure the security of public order in Botevgrad municipality. If necessary, they shall request assistance from the Gendarmerie Directorate. On a daily basis, five patrols are formed by two officers who have a different schedule, and all employees at the Novacene precinct are available.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u71	Here you are, Mrs. Todorova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u72	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am delighted that there is a contest for seven places you expect to be filled and four more in perspective. I asked the question about Botevgrad Municipality, but it is principled and indicative for very small municipalities in Bulgaria. Recently there was a show killing, as well as the last days in another small municipality, again among the contingent of the Roma population. I would like to ask a complementary question concerning the following: is it not necessary to develop new criteria for the allocation of more newly appointed personnel by municipalities, taking into account the new factors for the route of refugees, domestic crime, the presence of minority ghettos, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and therefore to compensate for the imbalance that you have highlighted in your response? These are new circumstances, and we need to take territorial account of where there are more risks and focus more resources on these places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u73	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u74	Dear Mrs. Todorova, you are putting this question very correctly, this note of yours. A model has been developed that includes four criteria that determine the number of compositions. We are currently applying it to the individual district directorates. However, what I would like, beyond these four criteria, to be assessed by the professional management of the Ministry of Interior in view of some specific criteria which cannot be included in the common model. I think we'll have a good result, and I hope this can be seen soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u75	We are moving on to a question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov concerning material security of the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit. Mr. Belemezov, you have the floor to ask your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We at ABB, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, say a modern analysis of the topic is needed. We say that the reason for this is that Europe, respectively Bulgaria, is facing completely new challenges, and in terms of increased risks and unstable international environment. The main challenges are the escalating migration crisis, the growing refugee flows and the resulting radicalisation and terrorism processes. In general, representatives of refugee flows can be distributed into three groups. As a first group, fugitives and asylum seekers from military conflicts in the Middle East, Asia and Africa can be separated. Economic migrants who use the international environment skillfully and seek realization in Western Europe should be separated as a second group. The third group, which we believe is extremely important, which is in fact a carrier of the main risk and threat of terrorism, are those people who use refugee flows to invade fighters from terrorist organisations. In this regard, Bulgaria is under a real threat of terrorism, all the more so that successful terrorist attacks were carried out in Belgium and France. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is: given that the Specialized Counterterrorist Task Force in Bulgaria is extremely important in countering terrorism, I want to ask you at what level is the overall collateralisation of the material base in SOBT, by, I refer to: specialized camouflage uniforms....................................................................... Is there a need to improve the fleet?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u77	Come in for an answer in three minutes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u78	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, the Specialized Counterterrorist Unit is a structure of the Ministry of Interior with the utmost importance for national security, especially in the context of the increased terrorist acts and global threats. Therefore, our efforts are aimed at improving the level of overall collateralisation of the squad's material base, which we recognise is not satisfactory. The costs incurred in 2015 for the squad amounted to a total of just over 1 million. Three hundred and seventy thousand. BGN, including fuel, equipment, veterinary medicinal products, consumables, nutrition, armaments and major repairs of the sobt hostel. The assets provided for 2015 amounted to a total of just over 21 thousand. lv. It's extremely small. It includes shoes - special winter and summer, costumes - special summer camouflaged, suits special winter, distinctive signs and bedours. At present, the technical specifications of three procedures for the conclusion of framework agreements for 2016 are being prepared at a total estimated value of 5 million. 722,000. lv. Some of them are designed for the proper clothing and shoes of the squad. The total estimated financial resources for this year, which we have provided for the needs of the squad, amount to 2 million. 605 thousand. 194 BGN, and the amount does not include the costs of maintenance and purchase of cars. During the maintenance of the car park we also encounter problems in providing financial resources for the replacement of the fleet in the Ministry, and the needs of SOBT will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u79	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your reply, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. We also believe that the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit should be dealt with under a different denominator in view of the needs to improve not only technical security in the structure of the Ministry of Interior, at least because it is one of the main units that should effectively counter the new threats of terrorism. We believe very much that we will be able to find the right mechanism and we, here in the National Assembly, are talking about something that we have been talking about for a long time, including last year when considering the 2016 budget. We need to find the best possible balance to improve the financial environment in the Ministry. You know very well that you have our full support. When I say ours, I mean not only to our political party and the parliamentary group, but also to the other parliamentary political parties. We believe that this is an extremely important issue which needs to be addressed in the context of the fact that we are facing new threats that should introduce new priorities in the consideration of internal security and public order. I had the opportunity, through the professional circles in the Ministry of Interior, to examine in detail and to get acquainted with the information about technical security of SOBT and with regard to personal and personal pleasure and with regard to the fleet. We know very well, but in order not to export this type of data at the moment, we are aware that a number of improvements must be made there. I am using this moment to remind you that last year we proposed the increase in the budget of the State Agency for Intelligence and the State Agency for National Security. That is, in this direction, we are as open as possible to a broad dialogue in order to make the necessary improvements and make them adequate to the current environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u81	Thank you. I guess you don't have to dodge. Yeah. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev on the activities of the Ministry of Interior in order to make certain risk groups enjoying protective motorcades in road traffic. I suppose you mean the streets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u82	And the roads and the streets. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For only three persons in the state holding the most responsible state posts, President, President of the National Assembly and Prime Minister, the Law provides a permanent special regime of movement and escort. These special measures aim to prevent any attempt by other drivers to interfere with the movement and integrity of the escort. Even these teams are forbidden to violate the Road Traffic Act and use force unless exceptional circumstances arise that would endanger the life of the protected person. However, this does not apply to those who declared themselves VIPs Bulgarian goons, oligarchs, who resort to self-harm on occasion and without occasion. These events start from the dawn of Bulgarian democracy. They are related to the emergence of so-called force groups, which were created by former State Security officials and supported over the years by various politicians. All attempts so far to deal with this problem, probably due to their display and sporadicness, such as the 1997 PR mosquitos of the Ministry of Interior, did not result in the desired result. It will have a much greater effect if the information about the owners and holders of the checked vehicles is provided to the NRA to compare their incomes and taxes paid with the prices of the cars they own or manage. According to the Bulgarian laws, in the event of differences between revenues and a demonstrated high car standard, a full tax revision by the authorities of the NRA can be made to any natural and legal person. In addition, when establishing the criminal background of the investigated persons, the verification must be completed in a complex manner by seeking illegal sources of enrichment such as production, trade and distribution of drugs, human trafficking, smuggling of excise goods, racketeering, draining of VAT and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u83	Ask the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u84	On the basis of the above, you may answer the following questions: Firstly, do you consider it appropriate to transform the checks at the Ministry of Interior of luxury cars into thematic cars and, if necessary, complex vehicles with permanent duration? Second question: Would the Ministry of Interior propose to the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Finance that a permanent inter-agency body be established at the highest level to carry out preventive and complex checks? For your information, such an authority existed in the period 1997-2001.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u85	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u86	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, our common conclusion from the checks we are carrying out, which are still ongoing at present, related to the dangerous driving of motor vehicles, as well as the demonstrable use of individuals as guards, is that they are currently giving a deterrent result. For some of the persons, we are also conducting additional joint checks with the NRA and the Labour Inspection. The security environment is dynamic and all our efforts are aimed at responding adequately to the situations that have been created in order to keep the public order at the highest level. In this regard, we organise all specialized police operations that have clear objectives and pursue the relevant result. We plan to make changes to the Private Security Act and to the Road Traffic Act, which will regulate the inspections of persons using escorts in their movement. This will give us the possibility of not just periodic inspections. On your second question, I must remind you that there is still a very well-functioning integrated model of operational information interaction between the Ministry of Interior and the other law enforcement institutions in the country and the judiciary. Under an Interinstitutional Agreement of 23 March 2015, representatives of DGBOP, SANS, the National Revenue Agency, the Customs Agency and the Prosecutor's Office participate in a specialized interdepartmental task force to assist in investigating organised crime related to tax crimes. As a result of the joint work of the unit in 2015, we improved tax collection in the state budget and increased efficiency in the fight against financial tax fraud and smuggling. Under the direct leadership and supervision of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office in 2015, a total of 13 joint specialized operations and two specialized police operations took place in the first quarter of 2016 for crimes under art. 321 in conjunction with Art. Article 255 256 of the Penal Code. Crimes concern the avoidance, establishment and payment of tax obligations and fraud by budget funds. The unit is currently working on 61 pre-trial proceedings. In addition, under the supervision of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office in 2015, DGBOP's employees found damages from tax crimes of approximately 43.7 million. BGN, and the amount of the secured damages from tax fraud amounts to 3 million. lv. For the first quarter of 2016, the estimated damage to tax crimes is worth 17 million. lv. As an additional measure we are implementing, it relates to the implementation of our government's priority to counter the crimes that are damaging the state budget. The Council of Ministers of 16 April 2015 established an Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Risk Goods and Goods. I've had the opportunity to inform you before, and it's given me extremely good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u87	Thank you. Mr. Andreev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u88	Dear Minister, I see there is a plan that is being dealt with. As someone who also has experience in similar political actions and similar policy, I recommend that what we do in 2015 become permanent prevention. Many times in our country such shares have been started, but it was a month or two, after which things have returned to the old mermaid. After all, prevention must be permanent and it must be known that a self-forgetting face or oligarch on the road is not untouchable and the state stands behind ordinary people with all its power and all its laws; knowing that a small road accident can start a complex inspection that will bring out the extremely criminal schemes in which it has enriched itself. I congratulate you on the actions that have been launched, but let them not be accidental, but be politics from now on of every Bulgarian government, including this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u89	Thank you. You wish to use the right of the back of the jacket....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u90	Thank you for this opportunity. I'd like to add something. Indeed, the problems and some of the problems we see in the Ministry of Interior, which do not give the desired results, are precisely because of the sporadicness of previous efforts. We are trying to conduct permanent policies, so institutionalisation is also necessary, but it must be........................................................................................... For the period from 28 February to 11 April 2016 only 4059 persons were checked in the framework of this operation, the cars were 2181, and 430 persons and 209 cars were identified in the present case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u91	The next question is from the MP Atanas Atanasov on the dismissal of senior officials from the Ministry of Interior. You are welcome to ask and motivate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Bachvarova, information was announced that the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in Stara Zagora, Sofia district and Vidin were dismissed. As a reason for these personnel Roquedas, the weak results and the low visibility on the territory of these three directorates are indicated. In this regard, I would like you to answer me in plenary today: what are the legal and true factual grounds for the dismissal of those persons from office, given the following circumstances, the low disclosure and poor results are indicated as a reason? Really Stara Zagora is 28th place on the results of 29 district directorates; Sofia district is 24th place, which is not visible; Vidin is, however, 10th place on the results. At the same time, let's say, the largest regional directorate in the country "Sofia Directorate of the Interior" is in the indecent 27th place and together with Stara Zagora have the same results. I really want to understand, of course, and your subordinates to receive this information through your answer: what are the factual grounds for taking these personnel decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u93	You have the floor, Minister, for the answer to the question in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Atanasov! The actual grounds for the release of the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior Vidin, Stara Zagora and Sofia are really relevant to the low results observed in the work of the Directorates in recent times. The assessment of the activities of the Sofia and the district directorates shall be carried out on the basis of a Methodology to take into account the effectiveness of their work on criteria and performance assessment indicators. The Methodology sets out four criteria: the effectiveness of the investigation, the effectiveness of operational and search work, the effectiveness of preventive security activities and the state of crime and disclosure, indicators reflecting registered crime and so on. In line with one of the main priorities for 2015. A new criterion has been established for local government elections: the effectiveness of the action to counter crimes against the political rights of citizens and others related to the electoral process. The grades here are also unsatisfactory. Indeed, the highest assessment compared to these three directorates is the Vidin Directorate. I would like to add that we are currently developing an update of the Methodology in which we are introducing a new criterion: effectiveness of the anti-corruption activities, i.e. the legal bases will be supplemented. Because you paid special attention to Vidin "The former Director expressed his desire to terminate his service of his own free will, which is why on the grounds of art. 226, para. 1, t. 4 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior was issued such an order. As far as Stara Zagora is concerned, the Director of the Regional Directorate expressed his wish to be reassigned to another position in Smolyan. The legal basis for issuing the relevant order for reassignment shall be art. 158. The same legal procedure was followed in the release and re-election of the former director of the district directorate in Sofia. I think the commitment policy of personnel decisions is the results and makes sense. That is why we are following this particular policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u95	Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I ask this question with concern for the personnel policy that is being conducted entirely in the Ministry of Interior. I am very concerned to tell you that I find that you and your leadership have left behind the competition for directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. You trusted the personnel arsenal of your Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and I would like to tell you with inconvenience I would like to share something you may not know. As a result of this personnel policy, nodes of regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior appeared with nicknames. In southern Bulgaria, for example, all the employees of the Ministry of Interior know who is the Izo Can you imagine what an inconvenience this is for longtime employees of the Ministry of Interior, people with such a reputation to occupy key places in the Ministry of Interior system? This is as a result of the call again I am telling you that you have left behind the competition for Regional Directorates of Home Affairs. I would like to point out an example to you in this regard. Last year, one of the real competitions that took place for the Regional Directorate of Interior was in Vratsa and Vratsa in the first place on results. Here's the result of the real competition. When employees see that, as a result of qualities and work done, someone holds a leadership position, the informal leader holds this leadership position, the results are present. When you appoint the Izo Dragon and the Rado....the results will be zero....sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u97	Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We are moving on to a question from the MP Borislav Iglev on guaranteeing the security of the population in Haskovo region. You have the floor, Mr. Iglev, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! On 2 April near the village of Bryagovo, Haskovo municipality, a group of 44 illegal immigrants was detained. All of them men, self-defined as Afghans. In their words, before their capture, they were in Bulgarian territory for about three days. It is disturbing that a compact group of men between the ages of 18 and 25 had been around the countryside for three days. The population in the whole of Haskovo region is experiencing serious fears about its property and life. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: is there an increase in law enforcement in Haskovo district? What other measures does the Ministry of Interior plan together with the Ministry of Defence to ensure the security of the population in Haskovo region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u99	Thank you. Besides, Mr. Iglev, illegal crossing the border is a crime, other than anything else. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u100	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Iglev! Our efforts over the past year are to ensure the best possible presence and protection of the Bulgarian border with a view to limiting migration pressure. Our efforts are daily, permanent and systematic, and continue at this moment. We have to admit that at 100% we cannot prevent entry until we have fully built the partition facility. On your first question, on the territory of Haskovo district are located the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Haskovo, Svilengrad border police station, part of the Regional Directorate of Border Police. In connection with the increased migratory pressure with my order, a contest was announced for the appointment of an additional state service at the ODMI of Haskovo to nine officers of officers and senior police officers. The structural border surveillance units in Svilengrad have been completed by state, and at present for the only holiday junior executive position is under way a competition procedure for the appointment of an employee. The structural units for border surveillance of the GPU are filled in by state, there are only three holiday seats and 37 of the employees of junior executive posts are newly appointed and the same office is completed. This is the result of last year's competitions. Given the levels of migratory pressure in the GPU, Novo village, further worked to carry out the tasks of border surveillance. The structural units for border surveillance in Ivaylovgrad are also filled in by state and are extremely few vacant places. About your second question. The joint specialized operation on the Bulgarian-Turkish border includes measures throughout the territory and the region of Haskovo. For one year now, in order to control and counter the increased migratory pressure, together with the support of the Ministry of Defence, we have improved strategic security activities at the border. Logistic support from the Ministry of Defence structures allows increased mobility of personnel involved in the operation. Apart from this support, a plan has been established by the Prime Minister, who coordinates the actions of our border guards and military formations by the armed forces. They shall carry out joint activities as of September 2015. I must inform you that, as of yesterday, a request from the Minister of Defence has been made by me in accordance with the Prime Minister's order to increase the effectiveness of border surveillance carried out and in order to prevent the preparation of attempts at illegal entry into the country's territory [[the President signals that time has run out]] 300 troops were introduced further as of yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u101	Thank you. Mr. Iglev, you have the floor for a line. Today the left sector is best visited, but let's not be the loudest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u102	Dear Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, I am glad that 300 people are assigned to the military. I sincerely hope that the necessary measures will be taken to make the population feel safe and secure in the area. For the time being, it is not a fact that people are afraid, women are worried about their children. I hope we don't see the situation from Germany in Cologne on New Year's Eve. I have asked you a question before, but isn't it time for Bulgaria to raise the issue of granting funds with which to secure the border?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u103	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u104	I can assure you that we are making every effort to find additional funding. At present, European funds have been allocated under emergency measures within the framework of 20 million. BGN, which are used specifically and targeted, but they also have their specific requirements for their use. We're doing everything we can to ensure security. The three hundred officers who will be involved in patrolling and the presence of the Bulgarian-Turkish border are not newly appointed, they are part of the Bulgarian Army.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u105	The next question is from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Atanas Merdjanov on problems in the national emergency system with a single European number 112. Mr. Gokov will ask the question. It is also discussed several times in the legislation. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, our question with Atanas Merdjanov is about the National Emergency System, which according to the Law on this system should provide citizens with continuous, rapid and free access to the rapid response services. The single emergency call number shall operate throughout the European Union. In Bulgaria, the system was built eight years ago and according to the design of theory we should be able to choose 112 free of charge, even with a locked keyboard, and to seek assistance in accidents, accidents, disasters, crises, emergency medical assistance, life-threatening problems, and across the street well-trained operators need to assess in seconds what assistance we need and notify emergency aid, fire department, police or at all. But is that practically the case? In recent months, from many directions from citizens, from media, there have been reports of difficulties in the system. The system blocks and collapses, then the operators are forced to deal in a primitive way with the hand recording, searching in the directory with whom and how to contact and in general plan B. And that at least once a week. This implies extremely slow processing, delaying calls, leads to a queue of waiting to connect to 112 or at all to the inability of such a connection. Even cases are reported when people wait for more than an hour to answer their emergency number 112. This ends tragically in many cases for those in need of urgent care. According to data from the system workers, in the last year it has been blocked for about 100 hours. The single 112 system is facing decay, there is also a problem with the turnover of specialists working in the system. All serious problems that make us ask the question: Dear Minister, is our National Emergency System reliable and is there any problems and what measures does the Ministry of Interior take to address these problems? Who is responsible if tragic consequences of the breakdowns in the system occur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u107	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u108	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Merdjanov and Gokov, I will present to you the history of the development of the 112 System and I hope you will also give yourself an answer to the last question. There are problems in the functioning of the National Emergency System. They're technical problems, I've personally met them. I can assure you that we are taking maximum responsibility for their resolution, preventing problems from endangering the response to emergency calls. The 112 National System is designed and built as a telephone center that distributes and directs calls to the relevant services, i.e. this system has been developed so that it does not integrate individual calls and does not automatically redistribute them. Police, fire and emergency medical care have separate systems to manage reactions and forces and are able to respond even in difficulties in the operation of 112. The 112 National System is built with investments of over 50 million. lv. and started work in September 2008 with two-year warranty support. After the expiry of the initial period, the post-warranty technical support of a system is carried out by a company chosen under the Public Procurement Act. At the end of 2012, an independent external audit of the state of the 112 System was carried out, which found a number of problems, risks and shortcomings which had not been resolved despite subsequent contracts for extra-security maintenance. As of 2015, the most critical equipment and software products with which the system was built were already out of support from the manufacturers concerned. In order to ensure the smooth operation of the system, it is necessary to replace them with new models for which manufacturers provide spare parts and update. The necessary steps have been taken to replace the most important technique, but there is a serious problem with the upgrade of the software, as the manufacturer no longer exists as an independent company and the company has been purchased several years ago, and this company that bought the first has stopped the sale, development and maintenance of the software product, which uses the National System 112. Despite the lack of detailed technical documentation for the established system, an analysis of the problems was carried out with internal resources of the Ministry of Interior and technical solutions were developed, which we successfully implemented in January 2016. Since the beginning of the year there has been no interruption or delay in the operation of the 112 system. The mid-term measures under which the work started are as follows: firstly, we have formed an interdepartmental working group under the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, with the participation of experts from the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, to develop a concept for a new integrated model for service and response. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Can I continue at the expense of time...?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u109	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u110	The working group will also propose ways of financing through available European financial instruments and national funds. A technical assignment for a new Single Emergency System shall be prepared to include more adequate requirements for the transfer of know-how, access to technical documentation, training not only of users, but also software developers and system administrators. Thirdly, initiating an award procedure, together with the Ministry of Health, to build and maintain a new Single Emergency System with a single European number 112, while ensuring that the information is correct without interruption and with maximum reservation between 112 centres and the contact points of the National Emergency Services, that is to say, with this assignment, we will make the new model of integration of the 112 system. Of course, we also have the challenge to comply with in order to make the emergency call service available to a maximum number of people and this is related to the bill tabled by your group, which aims to give access to the emergency call system for people with auditory and speech problems. We just have to make the system a new way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u111	Mr. Merdjanov, are you going to make the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, we cannot be satisfied with this response. However, it is good that you mentioned the bill we have tabled, but you, Madam Minister, have brought from nine wells of water, only to explain that a new job, a new contract and another 50 60 million is needed. lv. Obviously, that's what this is about. Otherwise, how do we explain the fact that a year ago a public procurement was held, a competition was won, the signing of the contract with the company concerned is delayed and then the major problems start because the system is being maintained not by the specialists of the company, which, due to the lack of a contract, refuses to perform its duties, but by the specialists in the Ministry of Interior. We are far from a supporter of the outsourcing of this type of activity. We agree that development implies new hardware models, software and so on, but the system doesn't work. We have over 100 cases that are fixed, for a delayed response and for refusal of signals of distressing citizens. I do not see any reason to lack a reaction for more than a year and to underestimate these problems. The bill that we introduced only highlighted 112's malfunctioning system. In fact, these problems started from the moment the Ministry of Disasters and Accidents was broken and the whole system was transferred to the Ministry of Interior system. Maybe it's worth thinking about in the future, too, because 112 cases are not just about the technical functioning of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Minister, I'm giving you one minute so you can answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u114	Mr. Merdjanov, the contract with the company, which won last year the contract for maintenance of the system, will not be concluded. Firstly, because last year there were no funds, secondly, because we are extremely unhappy with the quality of work.. million and eight hundred thousand leva per year for something that cannot be supported, for something for which the licence fees have not been paid, for the absolute carelessness in terms of maintenance, established in 2012. BGN, we have managed to stabilize the system in recent months, not for 1 million. $800,000. lv. Don't make me think you're lobbying for this firm. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u115	Saken! We didn't make a contract with this firm.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u116	We move on to the issue of the People's Representative Svetoslav Belemezov on the restoration of the Department of Transport and Police in the Ministry of Interior with a view to preventing acts of terrorism, combating crime and protecting public order in the territory of railway infrastructure and rail transport, according to the standards of the Member States of the European Union. There was a question like this a long time ago. You're welcome to develop the question, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Indeed, such a question we have been asking since the beginning of last year, including we have addressed it to the former Minister of Interior Mr. Vuchkov. This is a question that sets out a completely different need to comment on the topic of terrorism. If, in our previous question, we talked about effective countermeasures, we are already talking about prevention of terrorist acts. In this regard, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to make the following statement. On the occasion of the terrorist acts carried out in Brussels in recent weeks, as well as the imminent danger of carrying out similar acts in the Republic of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union and NATO, we remind you that in rail transport and railway infrastructure, objects operating which are extremely vulnerable and at risk by terror. Back in time the Republic of Bulgaria has a painful experience in the past, namely on 30 August 1984 a bomb was bombed in the waiting room of the Central Railway Station Plovdiv with one victim and 25 wounded, in 1985 we have a tragic case, and also in 1983 and 1984. With the adoption of the new law on the Ministry of Interior and the Rules on the Construction and Activity of the Ministry of Interior in 2014 during the former Prime Minister Oresharski specialized unit of the Department of Transport and its 8 in the number of territorial units of the districts of the Ministry of Transport, which was stationed at the Directorate General of the Ministry of National Police, were closed down, and notice, created by Decree No 68 of 1889 signed by Prince Ferdinand, or otherwise referred to 125 years ago. What I would like to say as a question is this: The set of measures taken at national level focused on prevention and protection against terrorist threats, do they contain a focus [[the President signals that time has run out]] on the absence at the time of a specialized coordinating and centralized unit in the Ministry of Interior with specific tasks and activities in the field of railway transport and railway infrastructure in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u118	Thank you. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Belemezov! I will save myself a series of documents that we have developed to counter radicalisation and terrorism. I can tell you that until a moment ago, we have been discussing within the Security Council of the Council of Ministers the legislative opportunity that we will give to your attention soon and I must assure you that within the framework of the Strategy we do not consider the railway infrastructure in the country as something separate that requires more special authorities. The activities of prevention and prevention of terrorist acts laid down in the Strategy and described in detail in the plan are intended to be carried out in the territory of the whole country, no matter where danger may arise. At the moment, the Ministry of Interior is carrying out continuous guarding of the larger railway nodes in the country, Sofia, Plovdiv, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Varna and Ruse, which I have informed you about from the parliamentary tribune. As regards the recovery of the Department of Transport to the Directorate of Transport, I would like to emphasise that the activities that the staff of the Department of Railways are currently effective. They carry out preventive information-analytic activity in preventing and crossing crimes, protecting public order in the territory of the railway infrastructure and rail transport in the country, preventing and crossing crimes in objects within the territory of the railway infrastructure, organising security of objects, events and special cargoes, and controlling the storage and security of common means of transport. In addition, the "Gendarmeria" Directorate continues the participation of the Transport Police Department in the "Realpole" European network of railway police forces. At present, the Directorate has been involved with experts in the working groups on combating terrorism in the railway environment and public order, as well as in strategic conferences. In November 2015, the Gendarmeria Directorate hosted the 34th Strategic Conference of the Member States, which was attended by the heads of the railway police. In conclusion, I would like to say that the employees are working on the prepared and established plans for interaction when coordination of joint actions of the DVR or the relevant regional directorate with officers from the zoning gendarmes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u120	Thank you. Mr. Belemezov, would you like a line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior for your answer. I will make some parallel and disagree with your answer. Yes, the gendarmerie is doing its job, but in fact according to the general functionality of its activity it should work in crisis situations. Here we are talking about permanent prevention, which is necessary on the territory of the railway infrastructure. Gendarmerie covers security activities, and therefore operational and search activities, and here is the essential paradox, is covered by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. This means that at present there is no coordination between these units. If there is a signal of a crime committed during a train composition which is registered shortly after Sofia, but is finally found in Plovdiv, the question is already asked here: who conducts the operational and search activities and who will actually be responsible for the investigation of the crime? I mean, there's no coordination. More than that. The trend and vision of the Member States of the European Union, through rail transport and infrastructure, is the creation of uniform standards for countering terrorism, crime and the protection of public order. To this end, similar specialized units of transport, railway policy shall be established and developed. That is, everywhere in Europe, this process has been developed, regulated and all the expertise put into the years there, as has been in Bulgaria until 2014, is used very skillfully to improve the standards for guaranteeing European and national security in different countries. Secondly, I would like to explain that the reasons examined for the financial justification for the recovery of the Transport Police are not adequate because we have sent such a financial justification to the Ministry. It duly shows that an additional resource from the Ministry is not necessary. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's what I'm done with, Mr. Chairman. A line of terror prevention. I would like to point out that the objectives of terrorist attacks are currently changing from airlines and airlines to railway infrastructure, subway stations and administrative buildings. We must be adequate to these changes and objectives of the new terrorist attacks that have just been carried out in the heart of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u122	Thank you. This ended the answers to questions to Minister Bachvarova. We are moving on to the answers from Meglena Kuneva "Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science." The first question she will answer is from the National Representative Kalina Balabanova about the necessary funds for school competitions and competitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in the last few years there has been a feather for extracurricular activities under the uniform cost standards of BGN 14 To a person. As a Member of the National Assembly, I was informed that these funds have not been transferred to secondary schools for the new budget year. Currently, the costs of participating students in Olympics and competitions are borne by parents, as schools are not able to allocate these funds and sponsors are rarely found. In this regard, I ask you to answer me why the funds for extracurricular activities of secondary schools have not been translated, and what measures will the Ministry of Education and Science take to obtain the necessary funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u124	Mrs. Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Balabanov! The policy of the Ministry of Education and Science to promote the preparation and participation of students in Olympics and competitions is implemented through the implementation of national programmes for development of education. A draft of the National Program was developed for the 2016 budget of the National Program "Student Olympics and Competitions" with a budget of 2 million. 634 thousand. lv. She was adopted by the Council of Ministers a few days ago. It creates opportunities for organizing and holding student Olympics and competitions in the field of science, arts and sport and competitions in professional fields. By the end of 2015, however, the state budget provided funds for extracurricular and extracurricular activities under the budgets of the senior officers of BGN 14. to a student in a regular form of training. These funds were allocated by the chief authorising officer with a budget between the extracurricular pedagogical institutions and schools. Out-of-school activities carried out by extra-school pedagogical institutions continue to be financed by State budget funds. For 2016, these funds were increased by PMS No 36. With regard to extracurricular activities carried out by schools, this year the launch of the Project is envisaged.Your time is funded by the Operational Program Science and education for smart growth. A necessary condition for the eligibility of expenditure financed by the ESI Funds is that there will be no duplication of funding for the same activities, as well as through the budget, the National Programme, which I quoted to you just now, and funds from the Operational Programme. This is the reason why from the beginning of 2016 no assigned funds from the state budget of BGN 14 are provided. for a student in regular form of training for extracurricular activities of schools. You are right, however, that there is a problem and it happens because there is a delay in the Project. It should have started since the beginning of the 2016 budget. Now there is indeed a period of several months in which the funding has been suspended in the previous way and the new one has not yet started. In this situation, the project will start from June, which is quite forthcoming. I want it to be clear that in no way has the funds been taken away to conduct these student events, but the opposite is the new funding model that provides more funds from different sources. And so far, schools have not received additional funding for participation in Olympics, and the Ministry of Education has ensured the organisation of Olympics and competitions -- the development of topics, committees, prize funds and so on. Of course, I also have specific information about the case in Dobrich that you presented. There is no national calendar for extracurricular activities, as written in the letter of the principal of high school to the mayor of the municipality, and there is a national calendar for extracurricular activities. There is an order of the Minister of Education and Science to confirm the requirements for organizing and holding and the schedules for holding the school Olympiads during the school year 2015. Of the events listed in the letter of the Director there are also those not included in the schedule. Thank you. I remain at your disposal to clarify the case to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Mrs. Balabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the most important issue in my presentations is that all these extracurricular activities, such as Olympiads, competitions and debates, are used by students to prepare for exams and exams. Not everyone has the opportunity to spend money on private lessons and courses, so they rely on self-preparation and precisely such extracurricular activities are used to check the level. I stress that most children not only take part in these extracurricular activities, but also win prizes, awards and awards, which not only remain for them and their parents, but testify to the efforts of teachers and the level of training in the school itself. The letter I have applied and you mentioned concerns the language school in Dobrich. The Director Ms. Milena Ivanova has clearly justified the costs that will be needed for this school year................................................................................................ lv. You understand that if this amount is split between children who want to participate in all competitions, it is impossible for the parents of children. In this way, if the funds are slowing down, we are putting teachers in a humiliating situation to campaign for parents or unsuccessfully look for sponsors. This delay is extremely unpleasant, but your answer to some extent satisfies me. What I would like to clarify in your second speech is the following. You said the Project Your Hour will start from June. Does this mean that the funds for extracurricular activities under this project will be transferred in June, or will there be subsequent delays? In the end, do you get that the school year will expire?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Balabanov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u129	Mrs. Balabanova, I welcome any concern for the Bulgarian students and the Bulgarian school, so your question really deserves a detailed answer. The experts at the Ministry are specifically instructed to follow what you're asking for, and they did a background check not only on Dobrich. June the project will begin to be implemented Your time. I stress that he was entertained by the operational program, something that I encountered in my first days at the Ministry. This is a very unpleasant delay. Teachers are extremely dissatisfied with the fact that this operational programme project, very successful and loved by teachers and students, has happened so that it is not well administered. I've taken every precaution to make it happen since June. From the moment the project starts and all the conditions are met, payment will begin immediately. Once again: I believe your concern is justified. I regret that the Ministry has not done so in a previous period with the launch of the Project.. Your time...... because this is indeed a very successful project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The second question is from the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the need to update the Classifier of the scientific specialities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Professor Stankov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science! By Decree No 125 of the Council of Ministers of 24 June 2002, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 64 of 2 July 2002, is established Classifier of higher education areas in professional fields. The decree does not provide for a change in the ciphers and names of the scientific specialties, and this goes into some contradiction with an order of 1990 which has not been cancelled where it is stated that the cipher and the specialty must be entered when issuing the diplomas and certificates. This is explained because under the old Classicator there were five scientific areas, the scientific fields. 46 and the scientific specialties... 516. In the new Classifier there are nine scientific areas, the scientific departments. 51 and there is no classification of the scientific specialties. When we issue our diplomas, we find it hard to write a cipher or not. In this regard, my question is: is an update of the scientific specialities envisaged? Are the codes and the names of the scientific specialties of the public register published in the Official Journal of the State, issue 34 of 27 April 1990, on which we continue to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u132	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Mrs. Kuneva, please answer Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u133	Professor Stankov, not to your question is not just about comfort and clarity, but also about whether we are applying the law and whether we are following its meaning. Here's what I want to tell you: under the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, you will excuse me, but I will shorten it............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So the Law on the Development of the Academic Board repealed the Law on Scientific Degrees and Scientific Awards, as you yourself mentioned. The following situation is obtained: after the entry into force of the Law on the academic staff and closure of the VAC, there is now only one classificationist of the fields of higher education and the professional departments of the PMS No 125. The Ministry of Education does not provide for it to be updated as there is no need for this. It gives a more general framework of areas and directions, with no limitation on the number of specialties. While the transition period lasts, the doctoral programs accredited by the old classifier, which in fact you are interested in, the scientific specialties, do not constitute a problem for the education in higher schools, that is, they only need to recognize them to the relevant professional direction. The conclusion is that the only classificationor, which should be applied in the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, is the classificationor of the fields of higher education and professional directions and problem does not arise either for higher schools or for trainers. If you wish, I can give you an official letter from the Ministry of Education interpreting how we apply the provisions of the Law if there is any ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Professor Stankov, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science! I have to tell you that this question is posed by the Rectors, it is also put by the lecturers. Because when I was a Rector, we come to us with a report that contains the cipher of the field, of the direction and of the scientific specialty. We need to form a jury. We're forming a jury. It should be mostly in the scientific specialty, people competent in this matter, although it is given the opportunity from the scientific field, from scientific management, usually the jury to do it in scientific specialties. And when we publish the diplomas, we still have to write the science major. That is why I believe, and also colleagues believe that there should be some update, there should be some clarity in what specialties we teach students, what degrees we give to PhD students, and also about scientific posts. Some new directions are included, which perhaps should be taken into account. I'll just point to the agrarian sciences. It says fisheries, industrial fisheries, and aquaculture is nowhere to be found. This is extremely up-to-date now and should even be in the heading of the directions. There's also veterinary medicine in the food safety department. We talk about it all the time, but there's no science major. And that is why I ask the question: is it right when we issue diplomas and certificates, because there should be written the scientific specialty, since it is not in the old register to be recorded? That's where my question comes from. I thank you for your answers and hope that we will give greater clarity to the College on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u136	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. Right on the dot, you're out. The next question is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov regarding the suspended access of Bulgarian scientists to international databases due to failure to comply with the legal commitments of the Ministry of Education and Science. Professor Stanilov, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! For Bulgarian scientists, the country's accession to the European Union opened great opportunities, but it also showed how much Bulgaria has to catch up with regarding state support for research. One of the positive practices after 2007 was to provide access to large scientific databases, which was financed through the state budget. It is undisputed that this access makes it easier for everyone who wants and can do serious research, especially in the field of natural and technical sciences, where major scientific results are published mainly in specialized journals and not in monographs, as in humanities. The subscription to these databases provides both access to scientific literature and the possibility for Bulgarian scientists to compare with their colleagues from other European countries and the rest of the world. Interrupting access will not be a good sign for Bulgarian scientists. Currently, the academic community is concerned by the information that access to the Thomson-Reuters databases has been terminated and Elsevier publications because our country has not paid the amount due under the contract for this year. If such news is true, it should also be seen as a failure by the Ministry of Education and Science of the State Budget for 2016. It was adopted after its presentation in programming format by the Ministry. It includes the "Coordination and monitoring of the scientific potential for integration into the European Research Area and the Global Information Network'. Within this programme, under No 11.4.2, the activity is set to maintain a subscription for access to global full text and reference databases with scientific information. And in this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to fulfill the legal obligation of the Ministry of Education and Science to provide access to international scientific databases for Bulgarian scientists? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u138	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Mrs. Kuneva, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u139	Mr. Chairman! Professor Stanilov, and I thank you for asking the question. A little bit of history. Indeed, the situation is serious and to a large extent the Ministry shares your concern, but we must act and I will tell you, first of all, what we have found, and secondly, what the measures are. Chronology: the payment of the amounts due under the subscription contracts shall be made by means of budgetary resources. Since 2012, the budget for ensuring the national policy for access of the scientific community to electronic scientific databases has been reduced and in 2015 the reduction has reached 75%. The annual subscription for access to full-text scientific publications in ScienceDirect and the SCOPUS reference database, supported by Elsevier Publishers, amounts to 7,9 million. BGN for 59 scientific organizations and universities. For this reason, a number of meetings in different format were held in 2015 at the Ministry of Education in order to find a solution for continuing cooperation with the publishing company and a preferential reduction of 15% was agreed, there is a report on the subscription to the full text ScienceDirect database. The value of the subscription for the database after the reduction was 6 731 534 BGN. The annual subscription fee for the reference and naucometric database SCOPUS was 1 152 374 BGN. The subscription for access to the reference and science database Web of Science in 2015 amounted to BGN 2,400 000 including the InCites analytical platform. In the 2015 budget of the Ministry of Education for this activity there was a budget deficit and the inability to subscribe to the full text database ScienceDirect. During the decision-making process a discussion was held with the managements of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. The Ministry of Education and Science also received letters requesting further subscriptions. An intra-compensated change was made to the science budget of the Ministry of Education, following a positive resolution of reports, and the necessary 7.9 million were secured. BGN for access to the electronic databases of Elsevier Publishing company from the funds from the Fund of Research. The budget limits for 2015 have been applied in preparation of the 2016 budget, which has put at risk for another year of default basic regulations and strategic documents. In the autumn of this year, the implementation of a project for co-financing of the activity is expected to begin to provide a national subscription for access to reference and full text databases under priority axis 1 of the Operational Programme, with 50% of the value of the subscriptions provided by the Operational Programme and 50% of the state budget. The funds for subscription of the scientific and reference databases are planned under Programme 10 "Assessment of the development of the national scientific potential" amounting to BGN 3 602 500, of which BGN 2 400 000. are planned for Web of Science and BGN 1 202 000. for SCOPUS. With regard to the full text database. It is true that there is a shortage of funds and it amounts to approximately 4 million. lv. Last week at the Ministry of Education and Science [[the President signals that time has run out]] I've had meetings with publishing companies. The issue was discussed on a political level. Our political solution is that funds must be found and access to the full text database will be provided. Letters of intent have already been sent to both Publishers "Elsevier" and "Thomson-Reuters." A direct negotiation procedure under the Public Procurement Act is to take place, and we will look for any options for solving the problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that the 2016 budget secures access to reference and naucometric databases and is about to announce a public procurement. As for the largest full text ScienceDirect database, the Ministry of Education continues to consult and seek a financial solution. Sorry to rush through the material. I will give it to you in writing, as I have answered, so that we can continue this conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Professor Stanilov, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u141	You said well that we would continue the conversation. It will be very useful. I don't even need to keep track of the situation. Colleagues who are very interested in the situation will keep me informed because they are following these things. Your answer rather sounds to me like a promise that things will actually get better. I'm gonna take a little detour here. You are an intelligent person, and despite the fact that I do not like the philosophy that you practice in government and in your career, the so-called "libertarianism," I still allow myself from this tribune to wish you to pay serious attention to research in Bulgaria, which have been abandoned by the whole society and mainly by the government so far. Research Fund, this whole funding is at an incredibly low level compared to the achievements of European countries that are also behind in research. I would remind you that the Lisbon Strategy has not been implemented and no one has explained why. I will again make such a wish.. let during the time when you are a minister, said to slang, to turn the pancake, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and to science have a different attitude. Bulgarians are not stupid, simple and stupid to be diverted and deprived of the high matter of the development of human society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u142	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Right on the back. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u143	Professor Stanilov, I have taken advantage of my right to duplicate to tell you that science is the most European Community dimension for the Ministry of Education and Science. Otherwise, education itself is our entirely national task. I have a very strong ambition for Bulgaria to show more in terms of achievements in science. I would really love to continue this conversation with you, because what is used by this data and what is worth giving money from our not-very-rich budget is a matter of very fine and precise analysis. I would like to say to you that the reference databases Web of Science of the Research Department of the Thomson Reuters and Scopus Research Publishing Office of the European Union are used by 59 universities and scientific organizations, as well as for more than 20 million notations to scientific articles regarding the starting indicators for the evaluation of scientific results. We try to see how we can redefine access to these data and not buy the whole array, which will cost very expensive, but only what really Bulgarian science needs most. If everything's a priority, you don't have a real priority. We are trying to make this priority through the Publishing Offices "Elsevier", "Thomson-Reuters", "Springer" and "Springer" for access to the ScienceDirect, Scopus, Embase, Compendex, Proquest Central and Springer platforms. I suppose these databases are essentially talking to you more than they are to me, but I know what it means to have access to information and how important it is to be able to step on it and show it throughout the European world. Professor Stanilov, I just want to tell you that I am not Libertarian.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Asked by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva about the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for the development of vocational education. Professor Bachvarova, order to develop your inquiry within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in 2014 was adopted a Strategy for the Development of Vocational Education in the Republic of Bulgaria, which covers the period 2015 - 2020. I have done the necessary to get acquainted with the programme for the period 2014 - 2015 with the specific directions for actions and funding of events in terms of vocational education. I must tell you that I am very disappointed at what I have read, because all the negative trends in vocational education that are mentioned in both the Strategy and in the analyses of the Institute for Market Economics, which was developed on the basis of a request from the Ministry of Education and Science, continue. In the last 10 years, students at professional high schools in the country have decreased by 25%. The trend continues this year. With the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, the professional schools of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have moved on to municipalities. This happened quite quickly, without financial arguments, because between first and second reading in the Transitional and Final Provisions was written a text which became a fact in the Law. It is about 76 professional high schools in the country, 12 scientific, professional directions in the field of plant farming, livestock, forestry and food industry. At present, about 28,000 children are trained in these schools. In addition, professional schools in the field of agriculture, forests and food are usually in small settlements. They also perform a lot of social functions in terms of having dormitories that children can use with minimal means, have the opportunity to train almost full-time and acquire professional qualifications that benefit Bulgarian agriculture. The concern is that by moving on to municipalities, with the few funds that have been allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, this trend will deepen and high schools will be pressured to close down or to restructure, which will not benefit the Bulgarian economy as well. Our question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science and what actions are you planning for the preservation and development of these schools, especially in the context of their extremely important role in preparing specialists in the sector of Agriculture and Forest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for your answer. Within five minutes is the answer to a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u147	Mrs. Bachvarova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professional high schools, which prepare staff in the field of agriculture and forestry, are currently funded, as you said, by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. You have also cited the famous fact that after the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act, which has been voted in this House, these schools are transferred to municipal funding. The change in funding does not change their content and activity.. what you have actually completed your question: what is the policy in this area? All properties, material and technical equipment and agricultural land, which professional schools of agriculture use to ensure professional training of students, remain at their disposal after the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act. In this sense, the change of funding should not be interpreted as a threat to the preservation and development of agricultural professional schools. I stress that this is a fact from the Law that we all implement. This is in terms of vocational schools in the field of agriculture and forestry, but your question was wider related to vocational education. The overall policy of the Ministry of Education and Education, and the training, there are several essential things that I want to say from this tribune. Firstly, let there be no doubt that vocational training is a priority for us. What did my team and I find in the ministry? By order of Minister Tanev of 13 November 2015 a working group was formed to prepare a draft Bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Vocational Education and Training in accordance with the new Law, which includes experts from the Ministry of Education, representatives of trade union organizations, employers' organizations, vocational schools and other institutions. The deadline for proposing a bill to the Minister of Education and Science set out in the order of my colleague is 15 March 2016. Such a bill was presented at a meeting of the political cabinet within the last possible time. It has been found that the Bill in its conceptual part raises a number of questions that we want to find an answer to, including through public discussions. For example, how will the new system of integrated colleges motivate students to choose this option instead of after graduating from high school to apply directly to university? I think it's a very good idea for integrated colleges, but we need to get a very clear answer to what we're counting on. As unpleasant as it may be, politically responsible behavior requires that we do not run away from the truth that there is a problem, namely that at this point in the ministry there is no broad discussion and convincing vision in terms of the reform of vocational education. Therefore, the political leadership of the Ministry of Education decided to work at two speeds: the first package of changes imposed under the Pre-school and School Education Act will be presented next week for public discussion and coordination. He's already on my desk. In the longer term, the great concept of the reform needed in the field of vocational education will be formed. We believe that the capacity of the Ministry for Vocational Education needs to be strengthened, as at this stage it cannot be said that there is a sufficiently well supported team. As a first step in this direction, we will create a new directorate with a portfolio of professional education....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We believe that this area is key enough to deserve self-esteem. The other line on which my team operates is the start of meetings with businesses and municipalities, whose goal will be to identify the real problems and to seek solutions. I am ready to discuss every opportunity so that the objectives that we set for each other in this important territory of consensus on vocational education and training can give the best possible result. Many discussions, many business meetings, many meetings with municipalities and a strong expert signal from the Ministry. That's what I want to share with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Two supplementary questions within two minutes in total. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are questioning the fate of professional schools in the field of agriculture and food because of the great change that is to be made in the coming months with them. Agricultural schools in Bulgaria have over 100 years of history and in all these years they have helped to be professionally prepared and educated thousands of young Bulgarians who have worked in the field of agriculture and food development. In our opinion, we need a little more practical talk on this issue about the changes that are ahead, so I allow myself to ask you two further questions, Madam Minister. The first of these is: is there a list of professional priority directions and specialties in the agricultural, forestry and food sector, and this way to make it relevant with the priority directions in higher education that have already been announced, including they are available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science? In the next place, the quality and responsibilities of modern technologies education is done without a doubt with modern equipment and equipment. In our opinion, we need to update the machine-tracing parks of professional high schools. Farmers in Bulgaria already have modern equipment, use the latest technologies, but for training in a real working environment of young people again the initiative is in the hands of school guides. Our second, additional question to you is: how will this process be supported in the context of the new secondary education law, when vocational schools of agriculture and food will go to subordination of municipalities, and what are the possibilities for additional funding, including through funds from European programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Here you are, dear Mrs. Kuneva, for the answers to the supplementary questions. You have three minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u151	Excuse me Mrs. Boyadjieva and Mrs. Bachvarova, I think the question is quite far beyond what you asked me, at least because special talks should be held with the Ministry of Agriculture in order to be able to convey the information we expect. Whether there will be money and what money there will be so that they can have new machines to train children in these vocational schools, I can't tell you. I don't want to make that up, and I don't want to make any promises that I can't keep. I'm going to suggest that we do this: I wrote down your two further questions, they're actually new questions that I need time to study them for, and I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Regarding the whole questioning, Prof. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, our inquiry was related to the policy of the Ministry in the field of vocational education and, in particular, to this really significant reform that takes place in vocational education in the field of agriculture and food. Because, agree that the transition from state structure to municipal, there is no way not to create shocks and there are no problems with the continuity of the learning process in terms of what will happen to these high schools and municipalities. I dare say that the proposed change in the Law is detrimental to Bulgarian agriculture and vocational education because no financial analysis was made. You don't have a financial analysis now, and August 1st is coming. If the experience had previously been studied of similar actions carried out in the period 2007 - 2010, when some municipalities were very keen to receive one or another vocational school on their territory, and then quit, you will see that there is a serious problem. These 76 high schools, in my opinion, will disappear from the map of Bulgarian vocational education in the coming years. Whether we are going to create colleges, dual education, how we are going to develop it, these are questions that should go in parallel, but especially with vocational schools. For me, the attitude to the problem, the ignorance and the fact that the Ministry of Education does not want to go into the details of what will happen means that your finding at the beginning that vocational education is a priority is virtually not possible. In Bulgaria there is the constant, this is my feeling, a nihilism towards vocational education. It always develops under the shadow of general education. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Professional is supposed to be some part of the general education when we have a profession, but that's not the case. Believe me! In a united Europe, attention is paid, above all, to professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is from the MP Petar Vladislavov Slavov on measures for support and financing of Bulgarian schools abroad. Here you are, dear Mr. Slavov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, my question really concerns the support and financing of the Bulgarian schools abroad, I think, a very important topic, especially in the context of the constantly growing Bulgarian diasporas abroad and the importance of this, the children of these fellow citizens who live there usually because of economic and other circumstances, really learn Bulgarian language and one day, if they decide, which we all hope will return to Bulgaria and be useful to their country. So, dear Minister, the number of Bulgarian schools abroad is constantly increasing, which is an indicator of the desire of our countrymen who chose to live outside Bulgaria to maintain their relationship with their country. Visiting Bulgarian Sunday schools by their children, the absorption of Bulgarian language, is a prerequisite that one day these grown children can return to Bulgaria and not feel alien. The creation and development of the Bulgarian school abroad is an ambitious and expensive undertaking, requiring a lot of money, such as the usual rent of a room, for the payment of teachers, supplies, overheads and others, it is necessary to provide teaching aids, materials for students. Despite the difficulties, the number of schools is constantly growing to reach nearly 140 in 2015 and these Bulgarian schools abroad. In this case, there is a very important role to play in the timely support of the Bulgarian State in the face of the Ministry of Education and Science, including its extension to the currently scheduled rules in only three paragraphs in the Law on People's Education. We hope, of course, with the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act in August, that this will change substantially and be upgraded, of course. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what is the amount of funds allocated from the state budget over the last three years to support the Bulgarian schools abroad? Has the funding reached all schools and what measures do you provide for additional support and promotion of the development of Bulgarian schools abroad after the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u157	Mr. Slavov, let me first tell you what policy is behind the funds and what its instruments are. The Ministry of Education and Science is really leading an active policy, and successful, to preserve the Bulgarian language and national identity, as well as to achieve passability and adaptability of the educational system for Bulgarians returning to the country. Both things are important. This policy is implemented through the following two instruments: National Program "Born language and culture abroad" approved daily by the Council of Ministers since 2009, and Decree of the Council of Ministers for the Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad. The schools, which are included in the list of Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad, this is one Order No. 334, cannot be financed under the National Program "Born language and culture abroad." Each organization of Bulgarians abroad, diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria or the Bulgarian Orthodox Church Municipality decides on its own which of the two instruments to apply to the Ministry of Education and Science for financial assistance. Both the National Program and the Decree create real prerequisites for building an effective educational policy regarding the Bulgarian diaspora for promoting the development of Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad and for continuing education in secondary and higher schools in Bulgaria. The funding under the decree, the second element, is carried out on the basis of financial standards ensuring the sustainable development of educational activities, and financing under the The amount of funds to support Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad in the last three years is 19 million. 263 thousand. BGN 657. All schools for which the beneficiaries have submitted to the Ministry of Education and Science within a specified period of time all necessary documents are financed, according to the requirements of the National Programme. Currently, two Bulgarian public schools are operating abroad: Dr. Petar Beron.Dr. in Prague and Mr. Botev in Bratislava, which are financed by us, and the school in Bratislava is also financed by the Slovak State, I must stress it. After the entry into force of the new Law, the main activities envisaged by the Ministry of Education in relation to the activities of the Bulgarian Sunday schools will be related to the validation of curricula adapted according to the specifics of education abroad and the need for quality education in the native language, the validation of teaching aids, according to the established curricula, the definition of the terms and conditions for providing the funds for supporting the training in Bulgarian language and literature, the history of Bulgaria, geography of Bulgaria abroad, in an act of the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Education and Science supports the activities that other institutions and organizations carry out to preserve national self-consciousness, lifestyle and culture and participate annually in seminars, conferences, round tables and other events organized jointly with the Association of Bulgarian Schools abroad, the Agency for Bulgarians abroad and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Our belief is that an effective educational policy towards our countrymen abroad can only be achieved in good dialogue between institutions and NGOs. And I agree with you that wherever there are Bulgarians everywhere they must feel taken care of and with the necessary dose of attention from us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Slavov, the line. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am glad that you really share the attitude towards Bulgarian schools abroad, that they are extremely important for preserving Bulgarianity and for continuing Bulgarianity. I will share within the line several problems that I have noticed, especially with regard to the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 334, which concerns the financing of the so-called Sunday schools, which are now nearly 140. There is indeed a very important support of the state because, as we know, they are mainly organized and supported by the Bulgarian communities abroad with their own funds and, of course, with the help of the state, if they receive one. I am impressed that there is no differentiated approach to these schools depending on the country in which they are located. The decree provides for a so-called fixed cost normalist of 20 thousand. lv. for such a school, which, agree, could hardly be the same at a school, which, to say, is organized in Chisinau, and one that is located in Brussels or New York. Obviously the minimum cost that is for rent or for finding a room is so different, the difference is so great that by 20,000. lv. It would be difficult for these compatriots of ours who are trying in Brussels or New York to organize such a school. Here I think, secondly, a differentiated approach to the geographical position of the school itself would be quite adequate. It would also be adequate for students who attend such a school because it is clear that one thing is to provide a room for 10 children, another is if they are 200 or 300 or more, as there are such schools, for example in Chicago or other major cities abroad. Indeed, my recommendation is to consider the experts in the Ministry to give them thought in this direction and really make an optimization, a differentiated approach to individual schools with a view to really helping the larger ones and those who are really having difficulty in large cities with finding a room, renting and so on, that is, really being used effectively by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? No. We'll continue with the next question. He is one of the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Tasco Ermenkov and is about the initiative: Interesting initiative. You have the floor, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to clarify it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u161	It's not ours, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u162	I said interesting without addressing her.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 30 March this year on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, the news appeared that Deputy Minister Deyan Stamatov took part in an open hour on history of totalitarianism in Bulgaria. The message said that it was at the invitation of the students from 22nd school "Georgi Sava Rakovski", 12th grade, the Deputy Minister attended an opening hour in history and civilization on the topic: The students have also seen the film "Bulgaria." The words of Deputy Minister Stamatov are also quoted that students should know about the things that have happened from different perspectives presented by teachers, historians, media, so that they can never allow such things to happen again. This is a view that we share. In the Ministry's message it is written that the initiative aims to focus attention and provoke the interest of young people in the period 1944 in 1989 in Bulgaria, building a credible and objective idea of it. Dear Minister, an important goal of education is the formation in students of independent and critical thinking, knowledge, skills and attitudes. Please answer: is the political cabinet of the Ministry involved in other activities of the initiative "Meet the young people with communism" to be the subject: the Industrial and Social Development of Bulgaria in the period 1944 " 1989", as well as the Development of Atomic Energy in Bulgaria................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I ask you this question because the new history of Bulgaria has another person of successful development of industry, agriculture, health and education, social security, which led to the fact that according to the UN Public Development Index of the countries in 1990 Bulgaria was in the 26th place in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u164	We get it. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u165	Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, I appreciate what you have started with your question that you share the view that students should be aware of what happened during totalitarian regimes in order to prevent such things from happening again. I think this is an important topic for all of us, whether by national socialist, fascist or communist regimes, it is important to know what totalitarianism leads to. This is exactly the logic of their studies in secondary school in Bulgaria. As for the specific initiative, I would like to point out that it is entirely in the spirit of the new interactive teaching methods and reflects philosophy including the new Preschool and School Education Act for more freedom of both teachers and students. On March 30, 2016 at 22nd School of Education, Georghi Sava Rakovski was taught an open lesson on the history and civilization in which a student from the 13th grade delivered a presentation on the crimes of the totalitarian regime after 1944 and a film was screened for the work camps of Belene. My personal opinion is that preparing presentations and speaking to people are extremely important competences for the 21st century. As you know, the acquisition of these skills is explicitly written in the curriculum, which is now preparing the team of the Ministry of Education and Science. As for the specific question: whether the political cabinet of the Ministry of Education is envisaged to participate in subsequent events of the initiative. This isn't an MUN initiative. Deputy Minister Stamatov was invited to attend a lesson organized by the school and the students did not hide it. On the contrary, the Ministry, and he himself, we've announced it, we've put it on the page. I think that's normal. At this time, we have not received an invitation to another such lesson... neither on the topics mentioned by you nor on others. By the end of this school, we have been informed by the management of 22nd school that no new lessons are foreseen until the end of this school year. As for the topics themselves: the Industrial and Social Development of Bulgaria in the period 1944...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u166	Thank you and I, dear Mrs. Kuneva. A line? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you, like no one else, should know that after 1954 there is neither terror nor mass repression in Bulgaria. And again to you, like no one else, you should know that in Bulgaria communism has never been there to have an initiative. Maybe as science could be, but it wasn't the object of what you were looking at. Among other things, I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Deputy Minister, when attending such events, means that they legalise them, express the position of the Ministry and its policy. But for me, the initiative "Meet the young people with communism" was written this way for a reason because, if it was correctly written: "Meet the young people with socialism", then perhaps it would be true that Bulgaria's industrial production from 1939 to 1989 has grown 104 times; agriculture. Unemployment practically does not; illiterate practically none; free, generally available healthcare. The main production funds in 1990 were estimated at 134 billion. The dollar, 98% of them were created in the period after 1945, and if this is told to people, then it becomes clear to everyone why there is nostalgia. There is nostalgia because today 43% of the population of the state lives in severe material conditions; 48 are at risk of social exclusion; 30% of the employed Bulgarians are poor. If you want this nostalgia to be overcome, it will not work with such initiatives. It will only happen if today the indicators Bulgaria achieves are higher than those I read to you and who were in socialist Bulgaria. Unfortunately, there is much longer to dream about until we reach these indicators, and these initiatives will lead to nothing but that anti-communism will be a new ideology in Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I feel like you were answering a question and you weren't making a line. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to make a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u169	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u170	You should be familiar with the Staff Regulations. The replica and doppelganger mode should be completed and then you should have the right to request the floor. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u171	Mr. Ermenkov, I did not intend to take the floor and I thought that this very close to the facts and a brief answer would give you the information that will allow you to see that the Ministry of Education and Science encourages every study of students. Look, there was totalitarianism in Bulgaria. And when we talk about that a child is making a film about Belene and Kucian, I assure you, as no one else probably in this room right now I know very well what that means.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u172	But there was fascism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u173	And there's nothing wrong with the fact that the kid made this movie and showed it. Didn't Belene and Kuzian exist?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u174	Does Hawk know this child? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u175	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u176	Okay, that should be known, too. Look, both have to be known. I don't know why we keep opposing one.! If you want to talk about Hawk and someone make such a movie, let's do it. I am sure that in the Ministry of Education and Science there will be people who will respect the students, regardless of how they make the reading of, yes, the totalitarian history of Bulgaria. "Belene" and "Quitian" exist, and their memories exist. These children have told about what they know and what they have seen, and there is no propaganda in this. Mr. Ermenkov, I am ready all the achievements of Bulgaria to repeat them both in the country and abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u177	Do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u178	And I'm doing it! But where we've had a dramatic retreat from all human values, we can't help but say it. This should not prevent us from having an equal understanding of what it means to deprive people of freedom, because they have different political views from you. Really, don't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u180	On behalf of the group, I changed the concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u181	I think this is better in line with the rules, it's the right thing to do. The People's Representative Martin Dimitrov of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is unacceptable in the 21st century to make such propaganda, which protects the communist regime, from people who claim to be part of the European Union and their member is President of the European Socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, communism has collapsed because it has collapsed economically. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It collapsed like a production, collapsed like an industry, so it's gone. That's why he disappeared to most countries around the world, and almost all of Europe disappeared for the same reason. If it were successful, it would have been there and developed from here on out. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Eastern Europe would not have given up communism and accepted the market economy and now be a member of the European Union. As for the fact that there was no communism in Bulgaria. There was, unfortunately, communism in Bulgaria, honourable colleagues. The evidence of this is the camps, the victims, the thousands of people killed, the thousands of repressed people. Now to say that this has not happened in Bulgaria is unfair and unfair. Communism had many victims in Bulgaria. Some of the intelligence was destroyed, it was repressed quite deliberately during this period. The church and Christians were targeted during the communist regime in Bulgaria. No reason by law in the democratic new history of Bulgaria communism was declared criminal. So I do not advise you, colleagues, to manipulate and claim from this high tribune in front of the guests, in front of all Bulgarian citizens, in front of all cameras that there was no period of communism in Bulgaria. Colleagues from BSP, you at least understand, because I look at all of you - you have nice Western cars, I see that many of you are taught by your children in Western Europe. And when you stand in the stands of the National Assembly, you embrace an incomprehensible nostalgia for the communist regime, which is a serious internal contradiction, ladies and gentlemen. But also given the fact that I have already pointed out that your member is President of the European Socialists, try, honourable Members, this topic with communism, which is quite unpleasant and which you should have forgotten, but obviously you cannot hold back from it, stop reminding it, but at least to claim, honourable Members, that during these 45 years after the period, as you call it "socialism," and it was communism, to claim that Bulgaria was then prosperous and that it was therefore nostalgic... No, Bulgaria did not prosper back then. At the time Bulgaria did not prosper in the conditions of closed borders, accumulation of external debts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u183	What's the external debt now?! What nonsense are you talking?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u184	Then you kept a false reality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u185	Please don't call from the gym! Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u186	You had forbidden people to leave the country. You have forbidden a number of people to receive higher education of your choice. There was no private property in practice or it was severely restricted. Then, I'm sorry, you've ruined the country to enough that it takes tens of years to rebuild it afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u187	Cut him off! Look at the crap he's talking!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u188	And most importantly, it's no accident that the world denies communism and turns to the market economy. Even see, China now somewhat denies communism and begins to adopt the principles of the market economy. This is not an accident. That's why I answer to you, not for anything else, but to manipulate young people and to tell people who have no memory, but who are interested in the words spoken by the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u189	How did you survive all this time?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u190	It is unacceptable, honourable Members, to say such things that lead the nation to delusion and to false conclusions. Our conscious choice, honourable Members, is the European Union. And there are no communist states there. And this is no coincidence, because this ideology leads to poverty, poverty and failure. Because it leads to poverty and failure, so no country in the European Union is ruled by such governments anymore. Now I know, I recently found out that BSP has made a friendship with a party from Russia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u191	You've got it all wrong!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u192	I know that's where you want to go. That's clear. We know about everything. We know about it, only that Bulgaria's path should be shared with us and this path is towards the European Union and NATO. We've accepted it together. So I'm asking you not to review it all the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u193	What's the deal? Tell me, scoundrel!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u194	Do you want to hear the affidavit, or do you want to keep calling?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u195	Is that a statement?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u196	Listen carefully to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u197	You are now using the problems of the European Union that exist. Instead of solving them together, because we are the European Union, instead of looking for solutions together, you use the situation to speak against the European Union and against NATO, often. And to talk about how good it was during socialism and communism, which is unfair and wrong. We must give as good examples the most successful Central and Eastern European countries that have achieved what we have failed to achieve. These are Slovakia, Estonia and Romania. They've done things we can't do so far. These are the examples. Not to give an example of communism and socialism, not to give an example of North Korea, which you think it, but not to say it, but to give the most successful examples from the European Union. That's what we have to do. We should not go back to socialism and communism, but we should do what Slovakia, Estonia and Romania have done, where incomes are constantly growing. These are the examples on which we should follow and solve together the problems of the European Union, not look for an occasion and say that this solution and this community is not the best for us, and without saying it clearly, to claim that we need to go somewhere else. And how much to nuclear energy, which has also been mentioned, honourable Members, there is nothing wrong with it, but not in the way that it is extremely expensive and to talk about projects on which to have only damages, penalties and penalties for Bulgaria, and in the end to have nothing else. By the way, I think that's what this whole time was about. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know, you are all a member of the European Union and NATO. Be proud of that! That's what you're proud of, and don't be proud of your former past and your communist heritage. Thank you. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. I understand that only the Attack Party had a declaration. So you have the opportunity, please, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Today we started a debate that only seems to be about the past. This is a debate about the future, about the social structure of Europe and Bulgaria, about that social device, which should integrate the principles of the structure of socialist Bulgaria, of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, honourable colleagues, in a modern and modern world, when the majority of Bulgarian citizens received highly qualified medical assistance, received highly qualified education, with which some today, with education from socialist Bulgaria, reached the peaks of the European administration, took the highest positions in the European Commission and other important European institutions. This only shows that education in the People's Republic of Bulgaria was not only ideological and deideologic. It was at the highest level of education in the field of law, philosophy and exact sciences. Bulgarian engineers built dozens of sites outside Europe in Africa, Asia. The Bulgarian economy was integrated not only in the Economic Assistance Council, but in the trade policy that we conducted with all the countries of the world. The achievements of the Bulgarian agriculture until 1989 cannot be reached today! This is due to the system of planning, the system of resource planning and integration within the Economic Assistance Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u200	Then why did the state go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u201	Today you are trying with an elementary cliché, without even understanding it, to put the historical development of Bulgaria by the wall the most fertile, the most fertile, the richest historical development of Bulgaria. You cannot change the minds of the people who lived in the socialist order, but for no other reason than this is nostalgic, it is objective judgment. This is a comparison between the lives people had and what the liberally democratic, helpless economic ideology offers them today. That's the comparison! And in this comparison, it cannot be replaced by school lessons! Today the political instability in Bulgaria, the instability of the institutions is due to the lack of simple protection, the simple care of the state for each of its citizens. Communism has nothing to do with this story! This story is due to the robbery after communism, organized by the right hand allocated by the right hand, destroyed huge funds in agriculture and industry with the help of the right hand. The dark-bess philosophy of privatization led to total destruction of entire industries in the economy. This cannot be attributed to communism. And another thing, communism is one of the brightest ideologies in the history of mankind! [[Reply of MP Petar Slavov.]] Communism is an ideology that preaches equality between people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u202	But there's a law to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u203	Communism is an ideology that enables each person to be equal among others. And I don't see why anyone should be giving open communism lessons. Communism is something completely different from the system of central planning and political regimes built in Eastern Europe after World War II. I only regret the people who, perhaps because of illiterateness, lack of historical knowledge, mix political regimes with the ideologies and economic structure of the state with some specific other ideologies and clichés that we have here today to disprove. Our historic development after World War II was ascending and this is the overall assessment of our entire society. I have another announcement to make. After the camps were closed in Bulgaria, which has already been discussed, and in today's day the camp continues to operate at Guantánamo base in the territory of another country, outside the United States, under what jurisdiction. I recommend that all future lecturers at school study the totalitarian experience of the United States, the unprincipled application of international law, the resettlement of prisoners from one end of the world with airplanes to the other and their detention without trial and sentence. I suggest that you no longer deal with the light history of socialist Bulgaria in this unscathed way! I suggest you find the most accurate assessment because the Bulgarian Socialist Party protects this story and will protect it; because it is objective, it has it, and you have no chance to delete it, no matter how open lessons you give wherever you want. People have memories, they know how they lived and they can make comparisons! As far as freedom is concerned. Dear colleagues of the right, freedom is an achievement of European civilization. It's not a given for one regime or another. Individual freedom is defended in all regimes at the cost of the lives of tens, hundreds, thousands of fighters and citizens. The freedom of Bulgarian citizens was defended by Geo Milev, by Joseph Herbst, was defended by Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The freedom of Bulgarian citizens was defended by the dozens and hundreds of guerrillas in the guerrilla groups, fighting against the Nazi occupation of Bulgaria and its allied regime of Simeon Saxe-Coburg. This is the actual history of the Bulgarian state! We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will be in this Parliament fit forward so that we do not allow you to impose this profanity cliche for the fight with communism! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u204	Thank you. I hope that we are done with the statements that have been an ideological dispute. This is an excuse to say that we have students from the University of Veliko Tarnovo. [[Applause.]] They can draw their conclusions. We continue with the questions to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Question from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev on the implementation of the Law on pre-school and school education. Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Our question is about the implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act. In the media, you stated a position that the implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act should not be postponed. It also became clear that as a result of the implementation of the Law, students from I and V grade during the first term of the new school year will study on new curriculums, but in old textbooks and different forms of applications to them. Last week, the blitz control came up about this particular thing. In fact you made a commitment that you would not create chaos to start with some textbooks, and continue with others, but obviously you would deliberately create this chaos. Teachers are already quite moaning about this circumstance, which is why I called on you last week to resign to the Commission. In May, municipal councils are expected to determine what will be the new structure of school institutions in municipalities corresponding to the new Law. This will be done before society and the institutions concerned know the new educational standards. Some of them are not yet a fact, including those for school environments and funding of educational institutions. Our questions are: do you think this way of implementing the Law will motivate participants in the educational process to participate actively and confidently in the implementation of the form of education? Are you convinced that this way of implementing the Law and the consequences of this application will confirm the positive image of the educational reform you boast about? Will citizens' trust in the Bulgarian state and education increase?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u207	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mirchev, this conversation is quite biased because, I know, there is a proposal from your parliamentary group that the Law be postponed. I mean, you guessed what you thought was best. However, such an opinion does not raise support, and I believe that we should concentrate on implementing the Law. There is no other option in a rule of law. The I and V-class textbooks, where the new programs come in, was the first case I've dealt with, and let me tell you about the situation that my team and I found. Minister Tanev opened the procedure on 8 January. By law, the deadline for the submission of the draft textbooks is a month, i.e. it expires on 9 August. Until then, publishers can import their projects. The situation is clear. The introduction of projects is until 9 August and then the approval and delivery procedure takes about three or four months. I won't comment on what was done or not done by the previous team. I think it's more productive, and I suggest that we talk to you about what we're doing from now on. The Ministry has taken all necessary steps to successfully implement the Law and to provide textbooks for all students for the upcoming school year. To this end are organized meetings and discussions with MPs, as well as with the broadest range of representatives of the educational system, teachers, experts, and expert analyses have been carried out. From the talks with the Commission's MPs, which you have quoted, with the majority, we have come to an understanding that, although complicated, the situation has a solution and the reform must not be postponed. We conducted lessons with focus groups, with teachers and students to establish the degree of dealing with the new curriculums using the current textbooks. The conclusion was that teachers and students can cope with new programs and active textbooks. Experts in general educational subjects at the Ministry of Education and Science conducted training to implement the new educational regulations with the relevant experts from the regional educational inspectorates, who, in turn, will train teachers in each region on a schedule by the end of this school year. My team and I held meetings every week of April, with about 400 teachers from I and V class participating in each meeting today also have one in Sofia from several regions in the country to take into account the opinion of the teaching community. A series of conversations have also taken place with representatives of publishing companies regarding the upcoming procedures for the approval of textbooks in accordance with Regulation No 6. As a result of the meetings and discussions it was found that the current textbooks for I and V Class can be used for the school year, with the exception of the one on History and Civilizations, where the curriculum is different. After discussing the created situation, an agreement was signed on 7 April between the Ministry of Education and Science and representatives of publishing companies, which made commitments on History and Civilization, earlier than this deadline.................................................................................................................................................................. to the school to the start to the schoolon to the school to the beginning of the beginning of the school to the beginning of the school of the school to the school course of the school course of the school course of the school course of the school period of the school course of the school year.... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The Ministry of Education and Science will launch a procedure for evaluating the imported projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u208	Mrs. Kuneva, you're running out of time. In the back, you'll finish. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u209	Dear Madame Chairman, Madame Minister! The bill to postpone the implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act introduced by BSP left Bulgaria, which you are talking about, continues not to be discussed in the Committee on Education and Science. The meeting and the discussion with MPs, which you mentioned in your reply, was clearly held only with MPs from the representatives in it we were not involved. Today I would like to recall: it is known that the most essential, in my opinion, for the success of a reform, is the attitude towards it of the participants in the processes, the attitude of the people who will conduct and those who will be affected by it. So far, the reform of Bulgarian education has started without political consensus, with at least three public scandals so far, before its actual and practical implementation. I would remind you that this is about disagreements about public funding for private schools, new curricula and new textbooks. What is happening proves that, unfortunately, our concerns shared during the discussion of the Law are justified. It is a very long time for society to get to know one side or another of the reform quite specifically. For the next few years, Bulgarian citizens will realize specifically and on their own back what the new educational Law on their school and village means, their children and their own. There is a restructuring of the system, parallel action of old and new norms, we will see in practice the different aspects of the new Law, through the prism of different groups of Bulgarian society and their affected interests. In certain respects, it will not be very different from what we experience in health care. We voted against this Law, but we are responsible enough as Bulgarian MPs and we do not care about what is coming and how it will affect the motivation for education of teachers, students and parents, how the specific conditions under which the Bulgarian education will be conducted will change. If we are still on the territory of the explanatory work and the PR, very soon we will be on the territory of daily practice in Bulgarian education, it is she who will raise today's and tomorrow's issues. We do not envy you, because you will have to answer and, in our opinion, will become more and more difficult. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u210	A hole, Madam Secretary. You won't use it. Next is a question of the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Stoyan Mirchev about the attempts to politicize Bulgarian education.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u211	Dear Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This question, which we are putting to you right now, fits into the current discussion, which we had and concerns an important reality, and it is the way in which Bulgarian children at the beginning of the 21st century will study the history of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian society in the 20th century, in a comparatively short period of time, which could be given objective historical judgments and characteristics. What is happening today in our society, attempts to ideologicalize the assessments of Bulgaria's history, attempts to qualify with a positive and negative sign one or another ideology cannot lead to anything other than a deformed idea of the students in school for their own history, the history of the Bulgarian state and thus not to be full citizens of Bulgaria and Europe, from the perspective of the knowledge they have. I would like to draw attention to the following. When we talk about studying the history of Bulgaria after World War II, we cannot fail to note that during this period two constitutions of the state were adopted in 1948 and 1971 that the radically changed state structure during this period, that the economy was radically changed, that on several occasions the patterns of the functioning of the economy were changed, and those who know the functioning of the central planing economy and the changes that this model experienced in the 1970s and 1980s cannot be misled under the cliché of comunism, which we are trying to explain a progressive economic and political regime. The objective study of the history of Bulgaria after World War II includes not only ideological indoctrination [[the President signals that time has run out]] It includes studying the Constitution, studying the economy, studying achievements. In the context of this matter...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u212	Mr. Zablyanov, 23 seconds after time, please ask your question. There are two minutes of regulation to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u213	Dear Minister, we want to understand: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education on this issue, as you have also informed us in the previous answers that it is an external educational initiative of the Ministry? Is it acceptable for you to deploy such external educational initiatives on the territory of the Bulgarian school, as they can be organized by different countries and it will become a territory of political clash?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u214	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will continue to try, when we talk about Bulgarian education, to exercise more reason and more self-control. In the question you have asked, no facts about ideology of education and politicisation of the school are mentioned. In my reply, I will present only the principle position of the Ministry. In accordance with the Constitution and the Laws of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Education and Science considers it unacceptable to carry out ideological and political activities in the Bulgarian school as well as indoctrination of education. The new Preschool and School Education Act is quite unambiguous in this regard. It reads in art. 11, para. 2: The system of preschool and school education does not allow the imposition of ideological and/or religious doctrines. This, however, does not mean to deprive the students of their necessary political and legal literacy. Civil competence, if I quote the European Framework of Reference for Key Competentities, provides people with full participation in civil life based on knowledge, I quote:........................................................................................... In this regard, I could point out that in the recently established History and Civilization Programme, it is laid down in the eighth grade, i.e. at a comparative but sufficiently conscious age, students should know in common frameworks and be able to distinguish basic political doctrines at a conceptual level from conservatism, liberalism, socialism and anarchism. The idea behind the educational policy conducted by the Ministry of Education is that the school should prepare the children for active and responsible civic participation in the public processes. This goal is achieved by, on the one hand, giving a solid theoretical basis, and on the other, critical and creative thinking is raised. These are necessary prerequisites in order for a day when it reaches the necessary intellectual and emotional maturity, the student to be able to form a civil position and his own political views. I cannot agree that this represents an attempt to politicise or ideologicalise education. This is a step towards building a civil society that guarantees the rule of law. Children are much smarter than sometimes we tend to rely on them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u216	For a line, please, Mr. Mirchev. Two minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u217	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Since you said we didn't present the facts, you just answered the question about the initiative "Meet the young people with communism" where one-sided and propaganda is spoken of one...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u218	On this matter, the Minister has given an answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u219	Don't interrupt me. I have to ask you a question. It is a question of deprivation of active objectivity to get acquainted with the facts and political event. It is the initiative of the MEP Andrey Kovachev, but you sent your deputy minister to be part of this whole event. I'll read you two sentences from this event. Daniel Mitov, a colleague of yours, stated that: The facts of communism must find their place in the new textbooks and distract the myths that continue to inspire into society, that is, he wants to rewrite history. A commitment is also made to build a concept that should be contained in the history books, as well as which Bulgarian historians can write the textbooks. Now that reminds me a little bit of fascism when we define who's gonna write what. [[Noise and lines.]] No political party or ideology can be declared or validated by the State and that is exactly what you are trying to establish your ideology. The Pre-school Education Act states: "In the system of pre-school and school education, ideology is not allowed, and this is happening. " In the Children's Protection Act: Every child has the right to protection against involvement in political activities..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why do you allow the division of our society again in the school? Why do you presume to revive fascism? Why do you turn a blind eye to the textbooks and to the chaos that was mentioned just now? If you are doing this consciously, really have a little shyness and find the strength to resign and not destroy the system of Bulgarian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u220	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u221	Mr. Mirchev, almost within the joke I was wondering, listing what the political systems could be, whether you have chosen anarchism? I just listed them. [[Reply by National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u222	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u223	Because what you suggest is that the Bulgarian Minister should not comply with the Law, for me does not rest on any...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u224	You don't follow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u225	On the contrary, that's exactly what we're doing. The law must be applied and it will be applied as the Ministry of Education strictly follows its letter, its spirit. Of course, we are aware that the situation in which the order was delayed is not ideal, but this will not prevent us from applying the Law. If you're interested in the history of the Ministry, I can tell you that there have been cases like this before. Teachers will handle it, students will handle it, parents are on our side. Now on the study of the communist regime. I don't know why that bothers you so much. Children need to know that there is a "Belene" that there is a "Kuitian" so there are facts they will go, they will see them in museums. It has nothing to do with the initiative of what MEP Andrey Kovachev has done. His initiative was even geographically different because it was held in Brussels. I believe that discussing matters related to our history and objective view will only help children. A little about the new projects for curricula. At the end of the first high school stage, the 10th grade study of our national history was 126 hours three and a half hours a week. The presentation is forthcoming to discuss these curricula, with an objective and thorough study of the period of the communist regime. I'll make one more point. History is not an exact science, and in teaching history always, in the full pursuit of objectivity, there is some evaluation element. This is normal and responds to the dynamics of public processes. So let it be clear: the policy of the Ministry of Education is that Bulgarian education should condemn equally all humanist doctrines and regimes and all acts of inhumane treatment. If you don't like it, it's really not my problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u226	The last question to Mrs. Kuneva is from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov on the standard for pre-school education.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u227	Madam President, Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! The question we want to raise is related to the implementation of the new Preschool and School Education Act and its consequences. The new Law provides for the introduction of compulsory pre-school training for all children, and we are all aware that there are therefore no necessary material conditions. Those arguments were also raised during the discussion of the law itself. On several occasions in the meetings we had with you, you argued with the fact that the National Assembly has voted on a law which you have received and must carry it out. This Law proved to be difficult and problematic not only in terms of textbooks, but also in terms of the issue we are putting today, as pre-school education, pre-school training becomes compulsory, and for it there is neither the necessary material base nor the necessary teachers. The Law shall enter into force from 1 August 2016. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has proposed that the entry into force of the Law be postponed by one year, a circumstance with which you disagreed and said that there are all the necessary conditions for it to be introduced. We are interested: do you think that compulsory pre-school education can be introduced at the moment in Bulgaria; do you think that there are control mechanisms that can establish the possibility for students to study and pre-school education to be carried out at home, as the Law provides? What are the institutions and mechanisms that will verify whether such education is carried out and what value does the certificate have to be issued for enrolling children in pre-school schools? These are questions for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u228	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u229	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Jevlyanov, at least I am sure that this Law will enjoy a constant and persistent interest in parliamentary control. I think that in the final account is a chance for him to work even better. Thank you. The CPO project, as stated by the abbreviation, provides for an independent organisation to be conducted at the request of the parent, which is for pre-school education, after approval by an expert committee in the Regional Education Administration, and for inclusion in such an organisation, parents must present a program for the development of the child, which necessarily contains: firstly, the selected methodologies and approaches, tailored to the age, individual needs and interests of the child, ensuring the achievement of the objectives of the Pre-school and School Education Act; indicative distribution of topics to achieve knowledge, skills and relationships necessary for the successful transfer of the child to school education set out in the Project with the relevant age group; a list of selected knowledge books and study aids. The draft standard that you are asking about provides for an achievement of a child included in a self-organization to be determined by teachers in kindergarten or school. The criteria for tracking achievements are in accordance with the competences of the knowledge, skills and relationships necessary for the successful transition of the child to school education as defined in the Annex to the Project. A child included in an independent organisation that does not achieve these competences shall be included in a full-time, half-day or part-time parental selection organisation from the following school year. The draft standard provides for the kindergarten, respectively the school, to issue a certificate of compulsory pre-school education for the children from the preparatory age groups who will take part in the first grade in the following school year. In relation to the provisions of the Law, in case of lack or insufficient readiness of the child for school, which you ask, the following measures can be taken: providing support for the child's personal development to develop his abilities and skills; delaying for objective reasons of compulsory training in the first grade for children with special educational needs, but for no more than one school year. The funding of the activities of kindergartens shall be made by means of the State budget and by means of the budget of the funding body concerned. The funds from the state budget shall be provided through the standards for financing the activities delegated by the State. In the course of development is the standard for funding institutions, which will define the conditions and arrangements for financing activities in pre-school education, including part-time and self-employed organisation. I mean, we're not late with standards. We're following the deadlines, and I think they'll be delivered on time. At the moment, this particular standard is uploaded to the public consultation page. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u230	Thank you. Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Madam Vice Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I would like to draw attention to the following that it was detailed and adhered to the Law and to the intention in the standards to develop all legal acts, but it is not uncommon when the Law is fundamentally different from social practice, material opportunities and with public conditions. It seems to me that preschool education is exactly the case. She's often underestimated. I do not know if you remember that this debate was relevant in the Bulgarian society two or three years ago, when again talked about a compulsory pre-school degree. Today we once again have a compulsory pre-school degree, without having the necessary material conditions for this, and this is a fact. I would like to recommend that you instruct the experts at the Ministry to prepare some deeper analysis of how this will affect the existing structure of pre-school education at the moment. The second question relating to the issue of a document. We would not be surprised if a large number of children prefer to stay at home and prepare for the so-called programs, which are not clear who will prepare them. You imagine in every kindergarten that they start developing individual programs for children who have not done as the Law is prepared? There's nothing wrong with having a law. As the draft regulation is prepared, they are out of the conditions at the moment for carrying out such activity. Most probably a large part of the Bulgarian children will receive a fake document, which will go to the first grade at the Bulgarian school, which will not have any value. Our argument, when and at the adoption of the Law we adopted these provisions, was that there is no point in adopting laws that cannot be implemented and create pessimism in the population with regard to the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u232	Thank you, Mr. Jablyanov. Mrs. Kuneva, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u233	Mr. Zablyanov, I assume you are aware that the Operational Program is exactly for pre-school education we expect support and it will work because one of the axes deals with this. So improving the base where the children will study is something that is at stake in the plans. I suggest you, now in the final, this is my last question and my last participation in the parliamentary debate, yet to come out of the negative attitude towards the Law. Control how the law is observed. Continue with your insistence on preparing for its entry into force. But constantly repeating that you do not like this Law does not benefit the Bulgarian education. I will not talk about how many experts and employees of the Ministry of Education and Science disappoint you in this way. Do not do it, let us unite our efforts so that the Law can start properly and do everything possible so that it can be applied as both the spirit and its letter. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u234	Thank you. This was the last question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education Mrs. Meglena Kuneva. We wish you a good job. We move on to the following issues, which are addressed to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The first question he will answer is a question from MP Vasil Antonov about the transformation of the train station Dolni Dubnik from station to station. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Moskovski! For too many settlements from the Pleven municipalities and the Pleven region, railway transport is a safe and accessible means of transport of people and cargo, and to a large extent the only means, especially in the winter seasons. During your first term of management, State-owned Railway Infrastructure has shown very questionable activity and attempted to close Gorni Dubnik Station, which would have resulted in various uncomfortable consequences. You intervened in this period authoritatively, as a result of some of the protest actions of the population, the reaction that we had, and you prevented this from happening. In the middle of the winter this year, however, in February this dubious activity of the railway infrastructure was demonstrated again, to make a statement, and again attempts were made to close the station in Gorni Dubnik. There'll be a lot of trouble coming out of this. I just want to list some of them. That the station will be destroyed, destroyed and looted, none of us have any doubts. I would like to remind you that here is one of the main warehouses of another state structure, which have recently completed the full repairs. Accordingly, here, with him, the rail transport stops next to her, there is a deviation. There are eight portal taps. There are carriages for both BDZ and ferry cars. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing with a last sentence. I would also like to mention that the school in Dolni Dubnik will immediately be shut down by stopping the station and turning it into a stop, not to mention that three of the municipalities in this area are mainly served by this station. My question to you, Minister, is: what measures will you take in the direction of keeping Gorni Dubnik railway station from being converted into a stop and thus destroying and hampering the population and depopulated several villages in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u236	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Antonov! In recent decades, mainly the last two, the structure of the passenger has been dramatically changed - and the freight companies in the Republic of Bulgaria, resulting in a great reduction in the intensity of train traffic and the volumes of work carried out by rail. This requires translating the capacity of the railway network in line with these volumes, reducing inefficient and unloaded railway infrastructure sites, which with their existence generate mainly only costs, without contributing even indirectly to the implementation of the activities for which they are registered and are implemented in the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Before proceeding with any change in the status of some of the stations, an analysis shall be carried out by competent experts who are familiar with the specific conditions on the ground, shall carry out studies and shall take into account any arguments that would enable a decision to be taken in one direction or another. Three such committees were carried out to examine the status of Gorni Dubnik Station. The first on 5 June 2013, the second on 20 January 2015 and the last on 17 February 2016. All three committees have found that the industrial branches adjacent to the station, including the State Agency for State Reserve and Wartime Stocks, have not been served by rail in the last more than eight years, and for this period there have not even been requests made to the National Company for Railway Infrastructure to carry out technical oversight in them. This clearly shows the attitude of the owners of the railway branches to their rail service. Moreover, without having carried out such a long period, the technical supervision of the railway of these industrial branches, including the state reserve, should be justified to assume that they are already dangerous to carry out rail transport on them. In the three years since the implementation of the first commission until today, none of the licensed railway carriers operating outside the State Company BDZ in the Republic of Bulgaria have declared any interest and intention to serve a client on the territory of this railway infrastructure. The latter committee, which examined the status of Gorni Dubnik Station, among other proposals for decisions it has made, has also proposed a satisfactory option in which it is intended to serve on the basis of the state rail reserve in the event of such a need. But at the moment it's not. I would like to inform you that, to date, a final decision to change the status of Gorni Dubnik Station has not been taken. I also assure you that in the future, whatever decisions are made concerning the status of the station and the service of the inhabitants of Gorni Dubnik village by rail are unfounded. Passenger trains, which are now stopping as scheduled at the station, will continue to stop in the future, and for passengers waiting for the arrival of trains, if a decision is made to change the status of a stop rather than a train station, all necessary facilities will be put in place to satisfy the need for passengers to use benches, shelters and so on, which will be a protected place and of atmospheric influence. But at the moment, such a decision has not been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u238	Here you go, Mr. Antonov, for a line. I will ask my colleagues to be tighter in order to fit in in time so that we can, within the framework of the control, end up with the questions to Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Moskovski! Thanks for the answer. I understand you haven't made that decision yet. I recommend another step of courage to prevent such a decision from being made and to close down the station. The consequences, believe me, will be very serious with regard to settlements and villages, and even more serious will be from the point of view that the population, the people who are there, and we ourselves will be organised towards civil disobedience to prevent such a decision. From another point of view, another fact makes an impression. People have the impression that it is the warehouses with the portal taps, with the unloaders, with the playgrounds that are too tasty for some. The arguments given by the Railway Infrastructure (Railway infrastructure) that the railway composition and others are worn out are not serious, because it is precisely the movement in the direction of Varna (Sofia). So there must be an inconvenience, there must be expenses. We have no doubt about this, but the role of the state is precisely in this aspect of railway transport, namely the transport of people, and it is quite certain. If this station was shut down, it would be a very serious blow. Believe me, I am convinced that you are very aware of the consequences and what will happen. I believe in the wisdom of your decision to stand down and hold Gorni Dubnik Station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u240	Thank you, Mr. Atonov. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to, I think everything is clear with regard to Gorni Dubnik Station. We move on to the next question by the MP Iskren Veselinov about the difference in the infrastructure development of the regions. Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, and please stick to the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the reason for the present inquiry was the information about the withdrawal of the Ministry's intentions for reconstruction of the railway section Vidin Medkovets, one of the few serious infrastructure sites in Northern Bulgaria. At the same time, it was announced that there would be no savings from the last lot of the highway This creates the feeling in the people of Northern Bulgaria that infrastructure projects that are important for the development of this region remain outside the government's attention for the entire next planning period. This, of course, develops against the background of a drastic slowdown in the infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria compared to the one in southern Bulgaria, to a much worse and weaker economic development for this reason, of higher unemployment. The fact is that depopulation in Northern Bulgaria in the mandates of the last two governments is in the order of about 14%. This rate of depopulation is 3 times faster than it is in southern Bulgaria. We should note that the funds from the Structural Funds of the European Union have the main task of reducing the difference in the development of the regions, and in the Bulgarian case it is the exact opposite. With regard to the above, I would like to ask the following questions, Dear Minister: Since our entry into the European Union, how many sites and at what value have been financed by Operational Programme "Transport" in Northern Bulgaria and how much and at what value in South Bulgaria? By the end of this planning period, according to your predictions, how many sites and at what value will be financed in Northern Bulgaria and how many in South Bulgaria? What are the infrastructure projects whose realization your opinion will give impetus to overcoming the catastrophic lag of Northern Bulgaria? How will funding be provided for them? Finally, I would like to ask a principled question, do you not believe that this way of allocating funds from the operational programme leads to, in fact, a contradiction with the principles of the European Union? In this regard, don't you think there should be a mechanism to compensate Northern Bulgaria for the systematic neglect of its infrastructure needs over the years?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u242	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. It's an interesting question. The word is Minister Ivaylo Moskovski, we are in question mode for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Veselinov! The project proposals, which are planned to be financed under priority axes in the Operational Programme "Transport" for the region of Northern Bulgaria, are as follows. Under Priority Axis 2 First, preparation of a project for the construction of the Black Sea Motorway, worth 1 million. 325 thousand. 268 euros. Second, preparation of a project for the construction of the road Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." Third, the construction of the motorway of Hemus, stage I, from the motorway of Hemus..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Euros. In the event of a remainder of the funds under Struma, the project will be transferred to the list. To date, by the way, it is not yet clear whether there will be an economy from the highway of Struma. Under Priority Axis 3 "Sustainability' for the transport of passengers and freight and the development of sustainable urban transport. Here it is planned to build an intercultural terminal in the North Central Region for regional development planning in Bulgaria, planned completion in 2018, indicative value of construction 22 million. Euros. Under Priority Axis 4 "Innovation in management and services," deployment of upgraded infrastructure for traffic management, improvement of safety and security of transport. This priority axis will implement projects for the development of information systems in shipping, building up existing systems and systems in the process of construction, supply of specialised vessels, development of information systems for road traffic management, modernisation and construction of facilities for acceptance and treatment of waste in Bulgarian ports of national importance, improving the quality of aeronautical data and information and improving the environmental management of civil aviation, developing railway traffic management systems, building GSM-R network, internal fine roads and ports. The budget is 7 million. Seven hundred and 588 euros. For projects of common importance for Northern and Southern Bulgaria, the budget of the entire priority axis is 60 million. 384 thousand. 520 euros. I say this as a general one, as specific projects are still being identified at the moment in the areas I have listed. Total potential investments for Northern Bulgaria under the Operational Programme "Transport" to this axis I am talking about Northern Bulgaria are 31 million. $110,000. 856 euros. The project proposals, which are planned to be financed under priority axes in the region of Southern Bulgaria, are as follows. Priority axis 1 - "Development of railway infrastructure on the main and trans-European transport network." First of all, rehabilitation of the Plovdiv railway line, phase II, planned completion, 2020 - length of the route - 307 km, project speed - up to 200 km/h, project value 320 million. Euros. Secondly, modernization of the railway section Sofia, September, with track length 30.55 km, divided into two sections: Elin Pelin, Ihtiman, and Ihtiman, September, with track length 44.79 km, project speed up to 200 km/h, project value of 740 million. Euros. The planned closure is in 2021. Third, the preparation of the project "Modernization of the Radomir railway line" Gyueshevo. The start and end of the technical assistance of the project are 2017 " 2020," the length of the route 88 km, the project speed up to 120 km/h. The indicative value of the project preparation is 5.8 million euros. In accordance with the priority axis 2 "Species development of road infrastructure on the main and extended trans-European transport network'. In the first place, Struma Motorway, Lot 3 - Blagoevgrad - Sandanski, planned completion in 2020, a value of 750 million. Euros. Lot 3. includes the construction of the highway with an approximate length of 62 km, divided into 4 construction contracts: Lot 3.1. from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik, 17 km, tunnel at the village of Zheleznitsa, 2 km long with adjacent facilities; Lot 3.2. From Krupnik to Kresna with a length of 21 km, Lot 3.3. From Kresna to Sandanski 23 km. Secondly, a tunnel under Shipka peak, phase 2 of the project "Travel of the town of Gabrovo" with tunnel under Shipka peak, fifth stage, totaling 150 million. Euros. The project is subject to the availability of funds from the Operational Programme "Transport" as it depends on possible savings after tenders for the highway "Struma". Under Priority Axis 3 "P for the intermodality in the transport of passengers, freight and development of sustainable urban transport", in the first place, building a third metrodiameter in Sofia. "Botevgradsko shose" "Botevgradsko shose" "Botevgradsko shose" "Botevgrad shose" "Botevgrad shose" "Botevgradsko shose" "Botevgrad shose"." "Vladimir Vazov" "Central station" "Ovcha coupe". The indicative value is 433 million. Euros. The expansion of the second metro-diameter from James Baucher to the crossroads of the Black Peak with a value of 11 million. 200,000. Euros. On the first two questions I also present the following information: The total value of the infrastructure projects in South Bulgaria is 2 billion under Operational Programme "Transport" from 2007 to 2013. The Commission 138,000. Euros. The total value of infrastructure projects in Northern Bulgaria is 108 million. 437 thousand. 867 euros. The total value of infrastructure projects in both Northern and Southern Bulgaria is about 36 million. Euros. Investment provided under Operational Programme "Transport and transport infrastructure" - total potential investments for South Bulgaria are 2 billion. Four hundred and ten 144,000. Euros. For projects of common importance for Northern and Southern Bulgaria "60 million." 384 thousand. EUR and total potential investments for Northern Bulgaria 31 million $110,000. Euros. With regard to the specific projects that could contribute to the development of Northern Bulgaria, we believe that priority should be given to the development of road connections Sofia It is also necessary to seek priority ways for modernization of the railways Ruse Varna, Carnobat Cindel, in order to build a reliable railway connection between the main ports in the country. In parallel, it is important for the Ministry to attract additional investments in ports with a view to increasing transit passenger and freight traffic. With regard to the allocation of funds from the ESI Funds, it must be borne in mind during this programming period that it relates to the need to complete certain projects and directions already started. That's why most of the money goes there. With regard to infrastructure financing, we are of the opinion that a solution must be sought, it must be an element of an updated transport strategy to be implemented consistently over time and to seek, including various sources of funding outside operational programmes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Veselinov, you have two minutes for two supplementary questions to Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u245	Dear Mr President, thank you for the flexible approach you have taken, because it was important to hear the information on this issue as a whole. In fact, if we have to summarize, in the previous planning period Northern Bulgaria received 30 times less investment, 30 times less than South Bulgaria! In the next planning period you will get 95 times less! These figures are simply staggering as a difference and therefore as a different opportunity for development of the two parts of the still integral Bulgarian territory! I will not take advantage of my right to additional answers. I think the Minister was thorough, and the subject of my questioning is not to delve into the particulars. I think that, in general, governance and we, as Parliament, must realise the enormous importance for these funds for regional development infrastructure. Let's start an active dialogue to draw up a new type of concepts and a new type of approach to finance the regions so that the differences in funding will melt, there will be some kind of regional justice, because all citizens of Bulgaria have the right to access modern infrastructure and, accordingly, at any point in the country, business should have state support precisely through the infrastructure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u246	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Minister Moskovski, three minutes to answer, although these were not questions, but findings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u247	I agree absolutely and join the conclusion made by Mr. Veselinov. I believe that the state and its budget need to find a mechanism that will slightly balance the level of investment in Northern and Southern Bulgaria. Indeed the difference is drastic! The explanation is that the projects that have been launched must be completed, which are heavy, large and in many cases go beyond a political cycle in terms of the mandate. It is not right, in my opinion, to implement one project and the funds to move to another region where another project will be implemented again in parts. It's better to finish something started. Because these projects require longer time, this is why the investment program is in the time frame. I absolutely firmly believe that the moment must be found and in the next few years there should be a compensatory mechanism.. whether through the budget, or through targeted lending, to balance the investment process in Northern Bulgaria as well, because the good thing here is that as a project readiness we are at a good level. For the railway infrastructure we have a draft of an idea phase Mezdra "Gorna Oryahovitsa," which concerns the Sofia direction. There is a ready project Vidin Medkovets, as well as the sequel to Sofia, although this is really a very, very expensive project. The colleagues from the Road Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works also have quite a project readiness along the road sections. I suppose the other ministries of the economy and the environment and water have projects concerning Northern Bulgaria. A common task of all of us is to insist that there is a mechanism to balance investment processes, especially in infrastructure, and for Northern Bulgaria. It is clear that when we complete the projects in southern Bulgaria, we will turn our attention to Northern Bulgaria. Then we will get the opposite.. a large part of the investment will flow to Northern Bulgaria, but if we wait for this to happen only through the operational programs, it will take a long time. I am of the opinion that this process is worth speeding up, including with loans.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u248	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. Mr. Veselinov, would you like to comment on Minister Moskovski's answers? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u249	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I rely on Mr. Moskovski's words to begin to think about such a mechanism and not to be symbolic with dozens, but hundreds of millions, because time does not wait. The time from 2007 to the present and to the end of the next planning period, these years are lost for Northern Bulgaria. It's an escape of investment, escape of people. After that, even in large amounts of investments would not restore the damage that is now being caused. In addition, we expect there to be much less money for infrastructure in the coming planning periods, that is, in any case, to seek alternative forms of funding and not rely solely on European funds. We are counting on Mr. Moskovski and the Regional Ministry, to which I have the same question, and I hope that the next parliamentary control will be answered, the dialogue for the composer mechanism will begin, because everyone in the north of the Balkan is waiting for something like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u250	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The next question to Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, is from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski concerning the preliminary project for the railway hub Plovdiv, the route of Plovdiv Station Filipovo. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u251	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, in my reception room in Plovdiv I was approached by a group of construction engineers and architects with a position on the central train station Plovdiv. The local press found that in December 2015 the Expert Technical Council of the State Enterprise NRIC approved a draft railway hub project for Plovdiv as part of the Sofia railway route. The value of the project is 321 million. lv. According to the publications, it solves the problem of crossing rail streets by building a new railway estacade. Special facilities are proposed to isolate noise from passing trains. Experts stressed that there is no need for this project with many logical arguments about efficiency. Their calculations show that the loading of the route of Plovdiv Central Station is small, and for years no train from and to Burgas passes through this station, respectively through the city. Architects also criticize the 15-meter soundproofing walls provided for in the project. They believe that such facilities are not in harmony with the surrounding architecture of this urban area, and this urban area will look like an industrial area. The expert opinion of engineers and architects is that the implementation of the project with the construction of the estacade is complex, laborious, will take at least three years at the expense of Plovdiv people. Mr. Minister, my question is: is there an economic analysis of the quoted project approved by the technical expert council of the State Enterprise NRIC to justify the effectiveness of its future realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u252	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the answer to the question asked by Mr. Turnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u253	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Turnovalyski, the route of the line in the Plovdiv section is located entirely in urban territory. The existing situational location of the railway road allows the movement of trains between Plovdiv Stations to take place at speeds up to 85 km per hour. The idea project developed an option for a complete doubling of the line in this inter-season and construction of a railway stop in the area of the stadium "Maritsa" in view of the following prerequisites: a marked investor interest in the development of an industrial branch "Tsartsavo" and the city of Plovdiv and rail services of major producers such as "Libher", "Sokotab" and others. Potential for the development of passenger transports by train on the territory of Plovdiv railway hub, using the main advantages of this mass transport on the territory of Plovdiv for the service of approximately 4200 people working in Libher, Sokotab, KCM, Agria Ins Oil, Vurt Electronics, IBB and the Shishmantsi plant. Increasing safety and time savings when crossing the railway line through the construction of the railway estacade and removing the crossings of the boulevard of Peshtersko Shose and the boulevard of Freedom, as well as on the boulevard of Sveti september. In line with the forecast for the future traffic increase, the time during which the barriers have been lowered is determined by the passage of 29 pairs of trains and 5 isolated locomotives, a total of 63 times the barrier is released per day. With multiple and short-term traffic interruptions for an average of seven minutes per train, road traffic will not be possible for a total period of approximately 441 minutes per day for each of the three crossings. The project for development of the railway hub Plovdiv was presented to the public of the city of Plovdiv on 20 August 2015 in the House of Culture. Expert Technical Council of the National Company "Railway Infrastructure" examined and adopted with Protocol of 20 November 2015 the project development. The project was submitted for coordination by Plovdiv Municipality in January 2016. For the purpose of the project an analysis of the costs and benefits, including financial analysis, economic analysis and risk assessment was developed. The main benefits for consumers in carrying out this project amount to 71,4 million. EUR allocated as follows: time saved EUR; passenger costs saved supposed to 3,1 million EUR; costs saved for carriers EUR; costs incurred by the carriers EUR; safety or reduction of road traffic accidents EUR; reduction of air pollution from harmful emissions EUR [[the President signals that time has run out]] ; reduction of climate change - 1 million Euros. The value of the time saved for the entire project for the period 2016 - 2045 - amounted to 180,1 million. EUR, with the share of the same indicator for Plovdiv railway hub alone of 150 million. EUR, or 82,8% of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u254	Time, Minister. You'll be able to answer in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u255	I'm done. Just one more sentence. The analysis was adopted by Protocol of 4 December 2015. Due to the limited financial resources of Operational Programme "Transport" is currently not foreseen the launch of this project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask my colleagues and Minister Moskovski to tighten up so that we can not drive you around next Friday for new questions, to finish the job. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u257	Mr. Minister, there is a solution to this line across town. These problems have a solution, and it is what the specialists call it, the so-called Eastern connection with Thrace Station through the existing bridge of Maritsa and from there on Filipovo. The information you are giving about the great investor interest and the need to transport cargo, as well as the 4200 jobs, what you have quoted, and the rest of the analysis that I am not aware of and will be familiar with, according to specialists, does not correspond very much with the reality and with the facts that are being exported. Clearly, this project will not be financed, then the question remains, what is the point of making such a design, and it simply will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u258	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Secretary? I see you don't want the back. The next question to Minister Ivaylo Moskovski is from Mr. Gokov about the state of Bulgarian State Railways. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. Be more efficient to give the other two colleagues the opportunity to ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! It is clear to everyone that the financial situation of the Bulgarian State Railways is not colorful. The concern about the company also comes from the recently adopted changes in the Railway Transport Act, especially in the part where the market is liberalized and the possibility of entering foreign carriers on the Bulgarian market. Any railway company from the European Union in an interest, desire and opportunity can release their train compositions on our lines, of course, after paying their respective infrastructure fees. And this, believe me, will happen, especially after the rehabilitation and renewal of a number of sections of our railway infrastructure. It is these rehabilitated directions that are one of the most profitable for the state railway and the emergence of competition will shrink to the extreme and the insufficient revenues at this time. I will remind you of the actions of ministers before you, who definitely stated that for a number of reasons BDZ cannot be a serious competitor of external operators and liberalisation should be postponed to become an international service first, then domestic. As a matter of fact, you have also done what is in your power to delay liberalisation after the directive adopted in the Union in 2012 on the creation of the single European railway area, but now the changes to the Rail Transport Act are a fact. The unenviable financial situation of BDZ is also a fact and on the agenda is the answer of the big one, I would even tell the giant question: what will happen to BDZ from now on? It is most logical, Mr. Minister, to stop the impressions of reforms and start rescuing the company in order to make it competitive in the Single European Railway Area, for Bulgarian State Railways to remain a sustainable and competitive company and if it is not a super profitable company, at least to provide cheap transport and decent pay to the workers in it and not to sink financially.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u260	The question, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u261	Mr. Minister, the questions are: what is the current financial situation of the Bulgarian State Railways? And what specific deadlines and what measures will you take to stabilise the company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u262	Thank you, too. Mr. Moskovski, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would like to inform you that according to preliminary data, the group Holding BDZ ends 2015 with a financial result of a loss of 27 million. 215 thousand. BGN, which is an improvement compared to 2014 by 23 million. 362,000. BGN when the loss was 50 million. 577 thousand. lv. The main factors contributing to this improvement are the operating costs achieved, the increase in funding under public service obligations, depreciation revenues and other government budget funding, as well as the increased profit from the sale of non-operative assets. I would like to note that for 2015, the Company paid off debts to financial institutions amounting to 75 million. Eight hundred and thirty-seven thousand. BGN, of which the principal amount of 67 million Twenty-four thousand. lv. and interest of 8 million. 813 thousand. lv. With regard to the BDZ, it has been shown in recent years to reduce the effectiveness of their competitiveness in the period 2013-2015, despite the increase in the volume of services under the compulsory public service contract expressed in train/km and the number of trains, there is no increase in the volume of services under the compulsory public service contract, expressed in train/km and number of trains. A decrease in the demand for rail transport services is reported, partly due to external factors and a number of internal factors, to the unsatisfactory state of railway infrastructure, generally low route speeds, outdated rolling stock, lack of investment. A threat to rail transport is the increase in the share of the personal vehicles used, which is most vividly expressed in the repair sections, the presence of highways and the competition of bus and coach transport. As regards BDZ, a decrease in the negative financial result of 12.5 million has been reported for 2015. lv. compared to the previous year. The productivity of one employed person increased by 45.7 thousand. a mile or 9.7%. The company's debt decreased by 12.8 million. lv. It should be noted that BDZ is an employer of 3200 people who receive their salaries and social security insurance within the time limit. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 315 thousand. 950 tonnes of cargo, which represents 58% of the country's rail freight transport. The objective causes of the difficulties in improving the financial situation of Cargo services are: - the limitation on the carrying out of management transactions in fixed assets of the Company in order to repay part of its obligations to the National Company.. Railway infrastructure.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - current repairs to railway infrastructure that extend the time for the delivery of cargo and reduce traffic speeds, increase the turnover of freight wagons and locomotives, resulting in additional costs; - lack of railway infrastructure capacity requiring adjustments to the schedules of freight trains, resulting in more isolated traffic, train traffic on bypass routes and correspondingly additional unplanned costs for machinery and staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u264	Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u265	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I know it's a serious matter, and within three minutes it's impossible to answer it. However, I do know that if you, as a minister, and the government do not take the shortest market measures to stabilise the Company, it will go naturally. I really wish I didn't hear from you, even though what you're saying is also good dry data. Yeah, it's really working, losing is slowing down. But it was more important for me to know what you thought about this Society, about its future. I strongly say to you that for me and the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria privatization of the Company is not a solution because it is the only thing that can provide some alternative, cheaper transport. Yes, you say that personal, road transport and so on have increased, but there are people who cannot afford the road transport and the only alternative is railway transport. You must be aware that there are people working with poor wages for their work, and they are not responsible for this condition of the Society. Guilty is the state, which, due to its poor governance, led him to almost bankruptcy, and now all the troubles are piled up on the employees of the Society. It is very important that we do not imitate reforms. I don't know how you're a minister, you'll say. I'd like you to state your attitude to the problem with BDZ. Will it be, or are we going to the natural conclusion of this Society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u266	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Moskovsky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u267	Mr. Gokov, the topic is very big and it really requires more time. Here you are, when you have the opportunity, I can tell you for a long time what strategy we follow precisely for the recovery of the BDZ Company, the Bulgarian operator. Tight, in two sentences: 2016 is vital to the fate of BDZ, as this year we have a mechanism on which we work. First, to repay all debts to creditors, since this is the biggest burden of the Company, and in practice by the creditors.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Only with our will in the negotiations with them do we hold back as the state and state of the Society. There is a mechanism on which this year we can repay absolutely all the loans and debts of the Company. In parallel, in Brussels, we are making a notification of State aid to enable us, by providing this resource, to provide it to the railways. In parallel, colleagues must start preparing a procedure for purchasing new rolling stock. We will try in some better volumes to make investments for new rolling stock. In parallel to the fact that we have a plan B, which means they remain a state company, but if there is a privatisation, there is an interest in it, my personal opinion is that it is good to do it, because there are eight private operators on the market. We cannot finance and help as a State of the Company, as it works on a market basis and is best developed this way. The concentration, the commitment of the state will remain for the travel services, where we will try at the end of this and at the beginning of next year to make huge investments, the Company to be sustainable and stable for years to come. We know how to do it, we're working right now, we're realizing this strategy. I'm pretty sure it will, as long as we have political sustainability and support for the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u268	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. The next question is again from MP Georgi Gokov to Minister Moskovski. It is about the closure of Nikolaevo railway station. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Analog question has been asked before, but for another station. Via the municipality of Nikolaevo passes the main railway line Sofia It connects with Tulovo Station and Dubovo Station, which makes it a gesture for the transport of passengers and cargo from Northern and Southern Bulgaria. From this railway station are served all the settlements in the municipality. The railway lines occupy, if this represents any interest, 113 acres of the total area of the municipality. At the end of 2014 it was stated that the intention of the National Company "Railway Infrastructure" was to close seven stations in the country, including Nikolaevo Station. Then the tension was created and the closure of the station was delayed in time. Thank you retroactively for understanding then and for preventing closure. At the end of March this year the municipal leadership and the inhabitants of the municipality were once again surprised that the railway station in Nikolaevo stopped working within a month. This is extremely bad news for the residents of Nikolaevo municipality, they are seriously worried about its upcoming transformation into a stop. The decision to transform into a stop will deprive the inhabitants of the municipality of transport links with both the district center and with a large part of the country. The local population, as well as the nearby ones, will remain without alternative transport. At the same time, unemployment in the municipality of Nikolaevo is the highest for the region of Stara Zagora and is among the highest in the country. This forces the population to seek sustenance in other settlements. In recent years, more people prefer to travel by train, as this is a cheap, comfortable and secure alternative to road transport. Students, students, pensioners who cannot afford another transport, travel by rail to different destinations, work, study and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u270	The question, Mr. Gokov, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u271	I'm getting to the point. The municipal leadership expressed concern to me and I ask you the question: what are the reasons for closing the railway station in Nikolaevo and is it possible in any way to save it, although I have now spoken with the mayor, the station is already closed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u272	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, please answer the question asked by colleague Gyokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u273	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gokov, there's no point in me reading the motives, they're exactly the same as in other cases. We are talking about dozens of analyses being done on the territory of the country. Again, I stress that this is not about closing a train station, it is about changing the status. Each station has staff costs, electricity, heating costs, if you want even maintenance of this room, it is analysed whether it has the necessary passenger load capacity to be able to operate this station normally and at least a little bit of the cost. Given that it cannot, the National Railway Infrastructure Company, and you are in parliament when the budget is voted, it is appropriate then to insist that capital transfers to the National Company be either maintained or at least increased in order to maintain this. Otherwise, we cannot make these costs, as at the moment even the shortage which under the Operational Programme is being granted to us as a loan from the finance, I believe that this is not correct, because then from the capital transfers National Railway Infrastructure will have to return them to the state budget. From this point of view, we are in an even worse financial position than we have been before. This type of cost we make to support stations that do not have the necessary passenger and cargo traffic is a burden for us. That is why these measures and actions are being taken. Economically, we don't close stations, we change their status to stops, people will be able to use them, they will stop trains there. That's what we do. If we have more means, of course, believe me, the last thing I allow myself to do is somehow liquidate the transport infrastructure. We are trying to keep it as much as possible, because you are right here, I am sure that the railway has a serious future and we must realise it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u274	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u275	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Gentlemen of the House! I know that my question about the station directly corresponds to my previous question about the condition of BDZ. I understand your motives completely, but you understand that the financial motives are clear, but for these people, in this declining region, with this high unemployment, the closure of this station will result in negative consequences for all people and for the development of the region as a whole, I even argue that the closure will lead to an even greater decline in the area. It's gonna go down as far as the economy goes. Now we're talking about a huge investment, a metallurgical combination that's going to be built there. Maybe this will revive the station. I want to tell you that the costs you save by closing the station remains to see what happens to the material base itself at the station, with the station building, what will happen without service? Because that will happen when the dozen workers serving the station, even if they don't get fired, will be reassigned, and it will remain deserted. How is BDZ going to manage the preservation of the building fund? Whether the maintenance and security of the building fund and the other material base will not come out more expensive than the current maintenance of the station, or at least equal to it, or have you decided to leave it unscathed? I assure you that in a period of three to six months, this area, with this unemployment, in this state of misery, will be destroyed and brought to a state from which it will never be able to be restored. Within three to six months, I'm telling you again! I hope that your intention is not to remain unscathed. Nikolaevo's development is in your hands because it is largely linked to the existence of the station there. And yes, it's not a station, it's a stop, but there's no alternative... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, Mr. Chairman, just one sentence. Maybe you're right about the cargo, but there's no other alternative to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u276	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u277	Thank you. With just one sentence: if there's an investment interest, there's no better than that. We'll give them the station for a symbolic rent, just to keep it up and cover its expenses. That's what we do in other places. We ask the municipalities themselves if they really consider that they want the big station to stand with all the accompanying costs and commitments, to maintain it, not to destroy it and create a problem, we tend to provide it with use. This cost of us weighs us not so much the monthly maintenance costs as the commitment that construction activities should be done there, and renovations, and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next, a question to Minister Moskovski, made by the MP Vasil Antonov, regarding concrete actions against the vicious practice with the illegal receipt of driver's licenses. Colleague Antonov, please proceed with your questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is about specific actions that you are taking against the vicious practice with unauthorised receipt of driver's licenses, something that I put as a question in July 2015. In your reply, you informed me that attempts at unauthorised acquisition of driver's licenses are mainly due to violations by applicants, and not due to unauthorised actions by employees of the Executive Agency. In order to stop these practices you have taken action and a technical opportunity has been provided by September 2015 for all theoretical examinations to take place on a tablet. You have also stated that a team of employees of the Central Administration are carrying out checks and, in case of suspicion of corruption, the relevant employees are removed from business. With regard to those who have been released for corruption by your predecessor and recovered in your term of office agency officials, you have replicated me that nothing has been proven about them and their malicious actions. Today the facts are as follows: after the measures taken by you, this is your quote, the number of victims of traffic accidents for 2015 is 708 people compared to 661 in 2014, the wounded are 8971 people. In just the first three months of 2016, 129 people died. This puts Bulgaria at one of the first places in this black statistics for Europe. Recently, the prestigious newspaper "Di Velt" quoted in advance data from the European Commission, according to which for the first time in 14 years we have had such a drastic increase in road deaths. And my question to you is, Mr. Minister, what are your specific actions as Minister to deal with this so ill-fated problem of mass buying driver's licenses, and within what deadlines do you expect visible results from your plan and the measures that follow? Asking my question, I realize that the answer will be followed by the blitz control that took place two days ago. I hope that you will use the time to answer my question to supplement accordingly the questions that my colleagues have asked, and you have not answered. Let us not forget that we are in a situation where we have recently been detained [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm graduating from 14 employees, of which one part already has different measures, but the toughest ones stayed in custody. Unfortunately, this is also the head of the structure, with control checks covering several of the district units, not the whole country. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u280	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. The word is Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u281	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Mr. Antonov, with just one sentence, it's not very correct to put my victims on the road. I don't believe they're all due to manipulation during training and taking a law enforcement certificate. The following actions have been taken to identify the infringements committed in the conduct of the examinations and to acquire a driving licence: a review of the video recordings of all driving licence examinations carried out throughout the country during the previous three months shall be carried out. The three-month period for storing the exam records is recorded in Ordinance No 38 of 2004 on the conditions and procedures for conducting the examinations for applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle competence and the procedure for conducting the examination examinations. Some regional structures provide a technical opportunity to store records for a longer period, which will also be reviewed. As a result of the irregularities identified by the records examined in the conduct of driving licence examinations from 1 April 2016, a total of 38 test reports have been cancelled to date. At present, several ways of manipulating exam results have been established: using technical devices, headphones and cameras, by which the correct answers are dictated to the candidate by a person outside the exam room; appearing to another person on the exam instead of what is entered in the test report with a false ID card containing the applicant's data included in the report, but the photo of the person taking the exam is instead of him; by exchanging the tablets, each of which contains a test intended for the other candidate's solution; by suggesting the correct answers during the exam by a candidate standing on the next job or by a kvestor. The Executive Agency of Automobile Administration has taken all possible actions to establish the violations of administrative services and control activities. Complex checks are being carried out in the district departments of the Executive Agency " Automobile Administration" such as in the cities of Sofia, Vratsa, Blagoevgrad, Plovdiv, Pleven, Vidin are checking one hundred percent of the activities of the district departments, including the examinations for acquisition of competence, and in the other 30% of the activity. For the cessation of the vicious practices and their failure to continue in relation to those carried out by the Executive Agency, we provide for the following measures: first, the equipment of the chambers for conducting the special cabin examinations for each particular place of work and non-transparent partitions which will isolate the applicants from each other; the cabins will be equipped with video surveillance cameras and sound recording devices; second, the introduction of a requirement for the personal electronic devices and other technical means and facilities of the applicants to be left outside the room in specially designed places, as well as carrying out a check before entering the examination room with a detector; third, the jamming of the signal of the mobile operators, wireless networks, blutto links in a certain range in the examination room at its holding; fourth, carrying out an examination of the person present in the exam and the person who is recorded in the protocol, is the same person by checking the image in the database of the Ministry's personal maps; fourth, during the examination of the internal studies. In addition to the above, the implementation of the above measures is now under way by preparing amendments to the relevant regulatory and administrative acts and taking action to ensure that the funds necessary to implement them are made available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u282	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Antonov, two minutes for two supplementary questions on your inquiry to Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Moskovski, you shouldn't be offended by the fact that I don't involve you, I asked you a question and a specific question to you. The one who's putting you up to this is the Prime Minister. He made a similar finding just one day ago that such violations and crimes are being committed in every Bulgarian ministry, which the state is being wronged with, so if there is someone to be angry with in this direction, this is this direction. Another point is that in the way you answer me, I come to the conclusion that for a long time there will be no change in the system in which the exams are carried out and, accordingly, books are literally given out. My advice in this direction and the point is that we really need to, you must, as a prime minister, as a minister, and as a principal of the state structure, change the system under which these examinations are conducted. For a long time and this is a notorious fact not only during your reign now, it is an old weakness that has been going on for years and I want to distinguish it well, indeed, that it is not only for you, but the truth is that we must take serious measures in this direction. There's no way to go on the way it is now, because on the other side, after such making of driver's licenses, there are bodies, human corpses, human destinies, broken human destinies. How do we explain, you and I are from the same area of Pleven? You know only two years ago a similar fate, a man without a license of 96-98 violations killed four people, three people and one seriously injured to Lukovit. When we answer these questions, I ask you to bear in mind the fate of these broken human destinies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u284	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Antonov, let's not cross the line with corpses! There are corpses in other places. I am prepared to accept any proposal, expertise and assistance from you, if you understand so much of the subject and if, of course, you are willing to give advice, I will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Antonov, you are entitled to the procedure of two minutes for expressing an opinion of the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I'm under the impression that you're insinuating something that is deeply wrong where you're going, but if you have any questions in that direction, I can really answer that. However, the responsibility we meet here is a question, the question I ask, and that is in terms of driver's licenses. Of course, we will give you the opportunity and everything we can and have, we have the expertise to be useful to you, but do not forget that responsibility with regard to this portfolio lies before you. And I'm telling you this very well, because there were times when your government really had success in that direction. There was a reduction, there were about 550 580 victims who, if you like this word more, in a year were reduced the number of victims, but it takes systematic effort, consistent efforts in this direction. Thank you. We will be very thorough in providing assistance in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-15.u288	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the passing of time in plenary and the running out of questions to Minister Moskovski about parliamentary control, I am closing this session. The next regular plenary session shall be on 20 April 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
