ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I propose to you a draft of: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 8 to 10 June 2016 1. Second vote on a bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers - Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. Adopted on 20 April 2016 in the first vote. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Water Act. The second bill is with importers Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Vili Lilkov and Hristo Grudev. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers "Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. Adopted on 26 May 2016 in the first vote. 4. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015. Importer "The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission." 5. Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. This is intended to be the first item for Thursday, 9 June 2016. 6. Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 19 May 2016. I propose this to be point two for Thursday, 9 June 2016. Point 3 for Thursday and 7 in the Programme.. Report on the activities of the Temporary Committee for Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 and Project for a Decision on the Report. Importer of the requested committee of inquiry. 8. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimal Standards), 1952. 9. Project for a decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius. First degree. Importers - Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. 10. Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. 11. Parliamentary control under Articles 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 142 MPs: 122 against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly is addressed a proposal from Mrs. Bachvarova, MP from the group of BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes that the first vote of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Arendate Act, No 554-01-52 of 13 March 2015 be included as a point in the weekly Programme. Mrs. Bachvarova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose that the Law on the Change of the Agricultural Landing Act should be included in the Parliament's Agenda for this week. This must be a precedent in the National Assembly because the bill was submitted a year and three months ago. We believe that an expert, good discussion was made in the Committee on Agriculture and Foods on the problems in the sector, especially with regard to the conclusion of the lease contracts and from now on this bill does not enter into discussion in the National Assembly. The lack of consideration for the problems that exist in the conclusion of the lease contracts shows, in our view, that the National Assembly does not want to address these vital issues. In 1998 it was created, either submitted to parliament, and since then the Agricultural Landing Act has been in place. During this time, many practices in the conclusion of lease contracts have changed. The Law itself is a framework and has extremely much will in the conclusion of lease contracts. The owners of agricultural land are in no way protected. There are settlements where there is a complete feudalization of tenants and forcing owners to enter into contracts. For those of you who are fans of statistics, I have to say that over 2 million are landowners. Over 100,000 lease contracts are signed annually in violation not only of the Agricultural Landing Act, but also in violation of the Property Act. With our proposal, we would like to draw attention to matters relating to the ownership of agricultural land and its protection, because the other means that we support mostly the large farmers who, at the place where they work, are creating extremely many problems. [[the President signals that time has run out]] and conditions for not solving these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u3	Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme of the bill presented by Mrs. Bachvarova. Vote 148 MPs: 61, against 27, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. A few messages. Dear Members of Parliament, by letter No 654-00-85 of 7 June 2016, received at the National Assembly at 17.24 p.m., the People's Representative Borislav Sabinov Iglev stated that he was withdrawing his submission on 3 June 2016. On Friday, an application to leave the BBC Parliamentary Group. By letter No 654-00-86 of 7 June 2016, the Commission informed Germany that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 3 June 2016, the People's Representative Yavor Iliev Haytov stated that he was withdrawing his submission on 3 June 2016. On Friday, an application to leave the BBC Parliamentary Group. By letter No 654-00-87 of 7 June 2016, the Commission informed Germany that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The National Representative Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev said that he withdrew his submission on 3 June 2016. On Friday, an application to leave the BBC Parliamentary Group. By letter No 654-00-88 of 7 June 2016, Rumen Marinov Yonchev informed me that he withdrew his submission on 3 June 2016. On Friday, an application to leave the BBC Parliamentary Group. By letter No 654-00-89 of 7 June 2016, the Commission informed Germany that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 3 June 2016, Georgi Aleksandrov Kovachev withdrew his submission. On Friday, an application to leave the BBC Parliamentary Group. By letter No 652-25-1 of 7 June 2016, submitted at 17.32, I was informed of the following: "Dear Madam President, we ask on the grounds of art. 13, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be amended to the Special Register of the National Assembly as follows: 1. Amendment to the name of the Parliamentary Group "Bulgarian Democratic Center" by changing the name due to the renaming of the parliamentary group in the "Parliamentary Group" Bulgarian Democratic Center "People's Union." 2. To be listed in the register the change in the leadership of the parliamentary group due to the release of Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev as co-chair of the parliamentary group and the election of Rumen Marinov Yonchev as co-chair of the parliamentary group. This letter was accompanied by an extract from Protocol No 34 of 7 June 2016 at a meeting of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Centre with two items on the agenda After their declaration in plenary, this is already a fact. Bills and draft decisions for the time from 1 to 7 June 2016: - A bill to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importer Yavor Haytov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. - A bill to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importer Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. - A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer Dimitar Delchev and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. More will be seen by the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. - A bill to amend and supplement the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer "Yanaki Stoilov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It will be read by the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Annual Activity Report of the Supreme Judicial Council 2015 together with the Annual Activity Report of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2015. The lead committee is about to be allocated. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activity of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the investigating authorities for 2015. The lead committee is about to be allocated. - Report on the implementation of the Law on the Activities of the Courts in 2015. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." The lead committee is about to be allocated. - A draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Importer Svetlin Tanchev and group of MPs. - A draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importer Svetlin Tanchev and group of MPs. - A draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. Importer Svetlin Tanchev and group of MPs. - A draft decision to change the composition of the Committee on Education and Science. Importer Svetlin Tanchev and group of MPs. On 3 June 2016, by letter of the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Assembly received a re-annual report on the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2015 and its summary. According to the letter to which they are annexed, they are sent again due to a technical error made, as those submitted to the National Assembly on 30 May 2016 were not definitively accepted by the Commission. By my letter, the report and the summary were submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, to which they were allocated for consideration by the President of the National Assembly on 31 May of this year. The materials are sent to the MPs by electronic means and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 7 June 2016, I ordered a proposal to produce a National referendum with questions: 1. Do you support introducing regulation of the fuel market so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support removing the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than four pharmacies in the country's territory in order to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies? 3. Do you support that the state subsidy for financing political parties and coalitions should be completely removed? 4. Do you support reducing the number of MPs from 240 to 120? 5. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of the MPs? This is a proposal to produce a National referendum submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016 and is allocated to the following committees: the Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. They are accompanying: the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy and the Committee on Health. The proposal, together with protocols of 7 April 2016 and 2 June 2016 to verify the signature of citizens who support it, carried out by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and the other documents were sent to the MPs by electronic means. For information after the one-month period which was given to the Initiative Committee to submit signatures that correspond to the legal basis written in the documents for the initiative, the total number of valid signatures is less than 400 thousand, but it is still necessary for the plenary to rule on the proposed proposal to produce a National referendum. On 6 June 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2015 to 25 June 2020 (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). No 611-00-3 has been submitted to the National Assembly a report on financial management and control and internal audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2015. The material has been provided to the Budget and Finance Committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Public Sector Accountability Commission of the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to all MPs in the Library of Parliament. On 6 July 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 July 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 July 2015 to 25 July 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). No 639-00-9 was reported to the National Assembly by the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the one-month period from 25 April 2016 to 24 May 2016 and Protocol No 25 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. I sent it by letter to the Budget and Finance Committee. Any Member of the National Assembly may become acquainted with the materials in the Library. The National Assembly has received a report on the results and analysis of the data from the National Centre for Public Opinion Studies. The material is provided to the MPs and the parliamentary groups by electronic means. The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2016, preliminary data The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to our actual legislative agenda, Point one: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers - Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. He was adopted in the first vote on 20 April 2016. Report for second reading of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Kirilov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On 25 March 2016, the National Assembly adopted the first vote on 20 April 2016 on the Code of Criminal Code. Name: "Acceptance of the Criminal Code." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law, supported entirely by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u6	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and the proposal under point 1. Two is withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 337, para. 1 after the word "Departments', "or destroys cluster ammunition, anti-personnel mines and other items within the meaning of the Law implementing the Convention on cluster ammunition and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their disposal' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u7	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 1, which does not support the text of the importer. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: for 107, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 by importer, supported entirely by the Commission, as well as the edited name for the compartment of the Commission. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 on the Commission report, as well as the name of the section of the Final provision of the same report. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 and the name Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The next item on the agenda is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE WATER LAW. Importers of one bill is Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev, on 18 June 2015 and of the other one Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Willi Lilkov, Hristo Grudev, on 27 May 2016. The report from the Committee on Environment and Water will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission Silvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to meet ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Bill for Supplement to the Water Act, No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Andreev Delchev on 18 June 2015. At its regular meeting, held on 16 July 2015, the Committee on Environment and Water, examined at first reading the Bill for Supplement to the Water Act, No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev and Dimitar Andreev Delchev on 18 June 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Mr. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister; by the contributors the People's Representative Nastimir Ananiev, as well as his expert advisor Mr. Yordan Gospodinov. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, who pointed out that all holders of permits under art. 46 of the Water Act must install measuring equipment and report the amount of water taken away. According to importers, this obligation is extremely burdensome in aquaculture farming and there is no technical need for the measurement of incoming waters which are almost immediately returned to the natural water site without significant pollution. It is also pointed out that pollution is of natural origin and the installation of the measuring equipment, especially when it comes to the water quantity of a significant part of the river current creates an unjustified burden for the business. It is envisaged that the cancellation of the installation of measuring equipment for small aquaculture plants will not apply when using artificial chemicals. The proposed measure will ease the administrative burden and costs for small and medium-sized businesses in this area. No expenditure is expected for the state budget and the measure, according to importers, is without prejudice to European Union law. The attitude of the submitted Bill took: Deputy Minister Pavel Gudgerov, who justified the requirements for measuring and especially water pollution, analyzed the concepts of small and medium-sized enterprises regarding the use and pollution of water; the national representative Chavdar Georgiev, supporting Mr. Gudgerov's motives on the need for measurement; the national representative Georgi Bozhinov, giving an example of the used waters of the nuclear power plant; the national representative Borislav Velikov, supporting the Draft and Mr. Godzordov, who completed the reasons of the importer. The President called for other speeches, then terminated the discussions and announced a voting procedure, in which the Committee on Environment and Waters with 2 votes in favour, without the opposition and 12 abstentions, did not support the bill and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill for supplementing the Water Act, No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Andreev Delchev on June 18, 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. The report on the second bill will introduce us to Mr. Martinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u12	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act No 654-01-71, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 May 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 31 May 2016, the Committee on Environment and Water, led by the President of the Commission Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, examined at first reading the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 654-01-71, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 May 2016. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Atanaska Nikolova The sitting was opened by the President, who presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted by the Commissioners. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its introduction were presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, who stressed that the regional governors have obligations to organize and coordinate the activities of cleaning river beds outside the boundaries of urbanized territories. In view of the public importance of activities related to ensuring the conduction of river beds, where, in order to maintain the conduction of the riverbed, it is also necessary to recall spill-over deposits, the district governor may organise and remove accumulated port deposits which prevent the provision of normal river conduction. The pool directorates will issue permits for the activities to be undertaken to ensure normal conduction of the river, which will ensure that planned events do not result in activities below the level of the active bottom of the river, will not be carried out and the hydromorphology of the river will be violated and will be able to control the process. The Law will ensure the implementation of a single and clear approach in fulfilling the obligations of the district governors and in relation to their competence in the management and management of public state property, as under the Water Act (Art. 11, p. 1) the adjoining lands of the rivers are public government property. The resulting deposits are also public government property. The proposed amendment to art. 140, para. 6 and the related provisions of the Water Act are in order to facilitate the process of cleaning the rivers, when it is found that it is also necessary to remove accumulated deposits, and the district managers can take legal action under the Law on State Property and the Rules on Implementation and other laws and regulations, and with the removal of the text for award and sale it is assumed that any district governor within the framework of operational autonomy can choose from the legal decisions for action what he considers most appropriate. Atanaska Nikolova, expressing support for the bill from the Ministry of Environment and Waters; National Representative Borislav Velikov, on the competent authority and control received a reply from Deputy Minister Nikolova; National Representative Genov on the possibility of circumventing the ZOP and the danger of violation of the river beds, received an answer from Mrs Nikolova and Litchev; National Representative Georgiev on the ownership of the seized material and possible submission of a proposal between the two votes; National Representative Grudev, expressing support for the timely proposals of the Draft and giving an example of the implementation of such a procedure for cleaning of the riverbed; National Representative Bozhinov, on the ordering of a specific text which can be improved; National Representative Stanislav Ivanov on the funds for this activity and Atanaska Nikolova, who explained that following a meeting of the law is a detailed presentation of the draft. The President called for other speeches, then ended the discussion and announced a voting procedure, in which the Committee on Environment and Waters with 8 votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 654-01-71, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 May 2016. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Bill for Supplement to the Water Act, No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on 18 June 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 23 September 2015, discussing a bill supplementing the Water Act, No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on 18 June 2015. In the work of the committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food "Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the Department of Works and Works, Mihaela Velinova, Head of Department, and Plamen Petkov, State Expert in the same Directorate. From the Ministry of Environment and Water: Boril Zadneproski The bill was presented by Rumen Hristov. The bill proposes that the obligation to measure and account for quantities of seized and used water and that polluting substances should not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises that have been granted aquaculture permits, except in cases where the use of water is subject to endogenous chemicals. The Ministry of Environment and Water is strongly opposed to the proposed change. It found it unfounded to the importers that pollution in aquaculture was negligible and did not affect the natural regime and condition of water. According to the Ministry, regardless of their size, aquaculture farms can both draw on significant quantities of water and use low-quality feed to cause pollution. This requires those holdings to carry out their own monitoring of the water quantities used and of the polluting substances issued by the activities concerned. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill and stresses that water is the natural habitat of fish and aquatic organisms, not the raw material for their production. The quantities of water used in aquaculture production pass through the farm basins and facilities and return to the same volume and therefore the requirement to install measuring instruments is unfounded. In addition, the Ministry proposes to waive the water collection fee for aquaculture production. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the parliamentary groups of ABB, the Patriotic Front and BSP left Bulgaria said they agree with the arguments of the importers and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and will support the bill. They also stressed that the Ministry of Environment and Water has the opportunity to control and accordingly punish water users that cause pollution, including with the withdrawal of the permit. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 16 votes for the Water Act, No 554-01-119, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on June 18, 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. On behalf of the importers? Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, on the first bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that we made with my colleague Delchev is related to a misunderstanding in the legislation itself, which obliges fishermen and aquaculture producers, who grow them on rivers, to put water meters in order to understand what water actually enters the fishbowl. Now imagine this one, a big river, pulled off a part to get into the fish pond, and we have to put a water meter. This isn't the water meter you have at home. Currently there is no certified service in Bulgaria and there is no water meter to be installed. We have 240 companies like this, there's not a single one that can put it. That puts them in an obligation they have to do. They can't execute it, and they get fined, they get blackmailed. Absolutely all the acts in the last few years on this subject have fallen into court, they simply have no appropriateness. There's another moment. When you decide to make a fisherman on a river, they say to you: "Put a water meter to measure what you use. " - But when you decide to do it at 3200 dam, there is no fee, you don't want anything. Of course, there is no way in the dam to put such a measuring device. Therefore, our proposal to help small and medium-sized businesses, because this requirement stops it, is to drop the proposal that is in the Law by putting a very specific exception. This was in all the reports the argument that such a measuring instrument should have and, in particular, water pollution, making an explicit exception in the Bill: This exception does not apply when anthropogenic chemical substances are introduced into the water. This option that someone may be contaminating the water is not saying that an appliance should not be placed to measure such contamination. We say: we should not put a water meter on the river, because, first of all, there is no way it will happen, the second is not practical. Imagine the river in September, imagine the river in April It doesn't have any appliances to put in the first place. The proposal itself was not made up when it was entered into the Law, all the acts in the court fall. In my opinion, it is important to support small and medium-sized businesses and to waive this requirement for them, with the support of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. There are similar math problems. The second bill? There is no wish to present the second bill. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. There are no speakers. I'm closing the debate. I vote on Draft Law No 554-01-19, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on 18 June 2015. It is the Commission's view not to support the bill, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, in the first vote, to support it. The leading Commission does not support the bill, the Committee on Agriculture and Food supports it. Please vote. They voted 82 MPs: 63, against 1, abstention 18. The bill hasn't been passed. Re-vote please, Mr. Ananiev. Yeah, there's more guys coming into the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u18	Revoting procedure because they couldn't all vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. It's a re-vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 24. The bill was passed in the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 654-01-71, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 May 2016. The leading Commission, and the only one under this bill, is proposing to the National Assembly that the bill be adopted in the first vote. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 81, against 1, abstention 17. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 26 May 2016. There is a report from the Energy Commission. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to take the floor on a security clearance procedure. Please be admitted to the hall Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister of Energy, Gergana Peneva
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u21	Honourable Members, we are voting for admission in this House. Vote 98 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Nikolov and the experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u22	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u23	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission, for the name of the Law. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The name is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u24	Proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article The Commission shall not regulate prices for the sale of heat and shall not set prices under art. 33, para. 1 of producers who, according to the audited annual financial statements for some of the previous three calendar years, have a total annual revenue of more than 5 million. lv. and their revenues from the sale of electricity from cogeneration of heat and electricity exceed 35 per cent of their total annual revenue, unless those producers carry out the transport and supply of heat to domestic customers or use the heat produced for the production of plant agricultural production.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u25	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, on the text proposed by the importers, I would ask them to explain to colleagues how they have considered the 5 million-dollar income limits. BGN, and the production of heat and electricity, which exceeds 35 percent of their total revenues. If this can be clarified, then we can ask our fellow Members to support this proposal. What do I mean? Now in the Law we have a text that says that only high-efficiency electricity production is subject to regulation and preferential prices. If you read the definition of high-performance energy, you will see that you have no reason to offer any limit of 5, 10 or 15 million. lv. Only high-performance energy is the one that will be subject to preferential prices. We expect for a long time the executive authority to certify and propose to the Bulgarian society and to the National Assembly those highly effective procedures, which must be paid a preferential price. If you can't explain how you made the limit of 5 million. BGN, I have a doubt that you say that certain producers can divert money to 5 million. BGN, although their high-performance production is only up to 1 million or 500 thousand. lv. Colleagues, your proposal with these limits is unclear. I want to hear this so we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u27	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, when the text was proposed, the idea was to be able to exclude producers of heat and electricity that produce agricultural production. That was the idea. For this reason, the 5 million-dollar borders are set. lv. We have a reference from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of all cogenerations that offer such production. In fact, the limit of 5 million. lv. and an average of 17,43% results in a relative share of electricity revenues from their total revenues. We've just multiplied by two, just in case, because there are years that vary more, there are years that vary less, so let's rule them out. Mr. Ermenkov at the Commission proposed a text that could finally remove them from this restribution so that we would not kill their business. That is why these boundaries are at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u30	Mr. Nikolov, you couldn't explain to me why you set exactly 5 million. Let's take Vidahim. Their production of heat for the production of tyres is within 100 thousand or 500 thousand. lv. The remaining 40 million. BGN, which they had taken so far, were considered to be highly efficient production and were paid for. You are now saying to Vidahim: No, you will not take 40 million as a profit from preferential prices, but you will only take 5 million, although you are producing heat to produce 100 thousand tyres. lv. Colleagues, you have no criteria. The criterion is high-performance production, certification. That's the general thing to do. If they made $15 million. lv. Highly efficient production, we, according to the directives, have no reason to limit them. But we can't give any more money. Now all I'm mentioning is Vidahim. Not to mention others who took 130, 150 million each. I am pleased that this proposal for the production of plant agricultural production has entered as a proposal and there is a solution. But the decision on the five million is now looking at the ceiling. As you just said, we've multiplied twice according to the revenue they've received over the past two years. The text isn't precise, not to say it's lobbyist, because it sounds bad. It's not precise to me. It's not that you don't want to and you don't want to limit the flow of funds from now on. The text is not discussed as it should be. If you take it this way, you might have to look at it again after a while. My suggestion is either to withdraw this text or to stop the examination of the Law. This needs to be discussed once again so that we can then make the real decision that is needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose that the deadline for submitting a proposal between first and second readings under the Water Act, which passed as a second item on the agenda, should be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u33	We vote on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for a term of three days. [[Definitions of MP Stanislav Ivanov with the Chairman.]] Cancel the vote. There must be a joint report and only then should we vote. Correctly, the technical secretary helped in the case. Second procedure Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way it is. The Energy Act is extremely important, with a great deal of economic interest. I would like to ask you to apply the requirement of art. 143 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly..... each of the speakers to declare a conflict of interest. I immediately declare that I have no conflict of interest. Let anyone who speaks be so kind as to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u35	Thank you. There is a speech for the people representative Martin Dimitrov, who will also make a declaration whether there is a conflict of interest or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Following the call of my colleague Bajraktarov, I would like to declare that I have no conflict of interest on this subject. Now get to the point. The idea of the plant plant as a concept is to be something that supports the work of a plant. The total revenue from the sale of electricity at preferential prices under this concept should not occupy a major part of the revenue. Therefore, the revenue from the sale of electricity at preferential prices compared to the total revenues of these undertakings should not be higher than 35%. That's what we said in our bill. Thus, the main business of these people should not be the sale of electricity at preferential prices, but by supporting the particular plant and by implementing a given production, the sale of electricity at preferential prices should be a small part of the total revenue. To be more precise, I asked the Commission for energy and water regulation. They told me that on average for these enterprises in Bulgaria, which according to the KEWRC are 21, the revenues from the sale of electricity at preferential prices are about 18,85% of all revenues. This is an average for Bulgaria. In this situation, we decided not to allow anomalies. Our goal is to make sure that there is no leakage in the energy sector. For the past year, we've been pursuing this in different forms. Colleagues who say they can achieve a higher degree of precision, let them propose. If they have a better offer than we do, there might be one, let them do it. The aim in this case is not to allow the leakage of energy funds, which is a prerequisite for increasing electricity prices from here on... something that no one in this House, I believe, does not want to allow. I believe that we all want the state company NEK to have better financial results. What does this text suggest? He says that if, on average, for these 21 enterprises, the revenue from the sale of electricity at preferential prices is 18,85%, then let's put a threshold twice as high, i.e. this average number is multiplied by 2, we get 35%, and we say, so far, up to this limit we assume that there are preferential prices. Above that, we now believe that as legislators, this is beginning to look like some kind of market distortion. What will be the effect? It will be in the direction of spending savings for the National Electricity Company. If you ask me, there is an element of justice. The logic of the plant plant is to assist the plant. That's why it's called a factory. By supporting the plant, the revenue from the sale of electricity should not be the main part of the total revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, in this text, I see a continuation of the reform that we have started together and, for the most part, this Parliament has supported the cost optimization in Bulgarian energy. I accept the debate on specific texts. If someone believes that a proposal or part of the text can be made in a better way, let him propose. But I don't accept people who say, "Let's withdraw everything, let's remove everything so that the order remains. Otherwise proving high-performance production is important. That is why we proposed the installation of measuring instruments in all manufacturers. They should be operational by now. We even gave her a ticket. Soon I will have a parliamentary question and I will ask the Minister of Energy and the KEWRC whether the undertakings that have not installed their appliances, whether it is plant plants or tecs, have suffered the necessary sanctions. Because the will of the National Assembly was to have control everywhere. Honourable Members, proving highly efficient production is one issue. The next question is to avoid excessive anomalies, distortions in the market where the sale of electricity at preferential prices becomes a major business for an undertaking. So I will support this proposal and recommend to all my fellow Members who want to continue energy reform to support it as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Dimitrov, you are one of the importers and continue to confirm that by looking at the ceiling, you have calculated and multiplied the 18 percent times 2 to make 35%. And why didn't you multiply it by 2 times 1.5? You estimate that you allow the energy to drain 18%, and you put more 18%. I am of the opinion that those people who produce highly efficient energy should not receive a penny more than energy, except what they have produced. But at the same time, you cannot offer us here, looking at some estimates from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because the Commission is obliged, on the basis of all the data it receives, that this production is highly efficient, to fix them exactly this price as necessary. This is not a reform, Mr. Dimitrov looking at the ceiling, setting certain figures. Why 35%? Why am I asking you five million? And I say again why when a producer can only get 1 million. lv. From high energy, you say: "No, you will give them 35 million! " - Why when it reaches 18%, you multiply it twice and say: "No, you will take 35%. I do not agree on the principle of withdrawing this so that money can be drained from energy. Absolutely not. Don't blame us for that. But your proposal leads me to think that you are currently regulating a certain cash flow to expire in certain places! That's what I'm worried about! For a declaration of conflict of interest, don't worry, many times I've been checked, eight years. I have no conflict of interest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Dear Mr. Mikov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have no conflict of interest, but it must be clear what the National Assembly accepts as an imitation of some reform. There will be a hit on two businesses. In fact, it was implemented by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC). 600 workers, 500 workers have been made redundant in the last 6-7 months alone. Now this is only legalized, and in fact the liquidation of industrial industries is finished, because in view of this policy no more fibers will be produced in Svishtov and never again in Bulgaria. This is done as a policy through the Energy Act. Actually, there's no problem at all. The workers have already been made redundant and registered at the labor desks. Because when the key infrastructure is hit, i.e. the seed of these enterprises, there will never be industrial production again. This Law further confirms that Bulgaria will be an agricultural country, will produce corn, cucumbers, tomatoes and provide tourist and other services. That is why this is about, and I am also surprised that the government has no opinion on this. Because from the CET1 and CET3, electricity can be bought at 170 BGN, and here small generating capacities with 0,05 of the total 400 BGN per year will be hit by this Law. Of course, there are others who will be arranged and will remain in the circle of those who buy preferential electricity. That's the truth, and you have to say it, Mr. Dimitrov. Everything else is some kind of general talk that doesn't have to fool the audience. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u42	Dear colleagues, I would like to start with Mr. Mikov and tell him that you should speak more to the BSP Parliamentary Group, Mr. Mikov, because the text that concerns the agricultural activity is submitted by your colleague Tasco Ermenkov. He even sits there often next to you. So when you're sitting there... [[See Mr. Ermenkov.]] Ah, here it is, see if it's good or bad. You have to be in the same position. It's not good for one of us to offer it and the other to say it's very bad. It is not good, you are from the same party, you work together and in the field of energy you should have a common position on the topic that it seems strange that one proposed it to the Commission, the other happens here in the Chamber to say that this is the biggest mistake and Bulgaria became an agricultural country. That's what you said. Somehow it doesn't sound credible. Regarding Mr. Ramadan Atali's line. Colleagues, do not look at what we are now voting on as some kind of liberating condition. This is an additional restrictive condition. The restrictive conditions that we have previously adopted continue to work. We are not canceling any previously restrictive condition, we are not canceling that they must prove high-performance production, we are not canceling the measuring instruments, we are not canceling any restribution that we have introduced so far, but introducing additional restrictions. That's what we're doing right now. So my colleague Atalay's concern that almost those who were under 5 million revenues would benefit from something, and something was canceled by the so far restrictive regime, that is not true. The conditions are acting cumulatively, that is, together, and no one will be released from the so far restrictive and controlling, rather the word is................................and all of you, colleagues, we have introduced by a huge majority. You know, on this topic, Parliament will be divided into two groups of those who want more serious control over costs. Because what does my colleague Mikov tell us? No one stops these factory plants from selling electricity at market prices. They can sell as much as they want, but he says so: If NEK didn't buy their electricity at high preferential prices, they couldn't survive. That's what all manufacturers tell us. That's what different RESs tell us, that's what they tell us, sorry, and American power plants. That's what everyone says. They say, "If the state doesn't buy at the highest preferential prices, we can't handle it." But that's exactly how NEK had 700 million. lv. deficiency. Just because prices were high everywhere. We have a consistent policy. It is also to RES, it is also to plant plants, it is also to the thermal power plants, in this case it has already moved to US power plants with the re-negotiation of prices. So we're looking everywhere for more control and saving. Our approach is the same to all of us. Yes, it is normal to be dissatisfied because we optimize the costs, but this leads to recovery of the Bulgarian energy a little bit less.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]] Personal explanation or statement? Please come in for a personal explanation, Mr. Ermenkov, you were mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u44	Tell your colleague I didn't make a line so he can mention me in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u45	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u46	Mr. President, honourable Members, I am taking a personal explanation procedure because Mr. Dimitrov mentioned me here in connection with some disparity in the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Mr. Dimitrov, there's no division. We have always maintained any measures that are linked to cutting costs in the energy system. However, this does not mean that our MPs from the respective constituencies in which undertakings are affected cannot show their social sensitivity to these people. This does not mean that these MPs of ours, because of the common policy, should abandon the interests of their own voters and their own representatives and help to obtain as a result of greater unemployment in their region. So it's a very normal, consistent policy, and you can't bring in any kind of difference that's not there anyway. Don't at least try to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The spirit, principle and purpose of the proposed Draft are understandable and justified from the point of view of the severe condition in which Bulgarian energy continues to be found through the obligations which have been accumulated by the National Electricity Company. But I will express a disagreement, as other colleagues have expressed so far, with the way in which an attempt is being made to, so to speak, ease the situation or reduce the rate of sinking of the sinking ship. We are currently in a situation where NEK is in a deficit of several billion levs, and I am not trying to specify the figure precisely, and in such a situation where we are barely able to keep the price of electricity for bits at the same unchanged level at the expense of affecting the revenues of several state-owned enterprises, as you will see later. In this case, I believe that much more serious, drastic measures should be taken to limit the draining of Bulgarian energy by paying electricity at a double and triple price from the market price. This is done in the direction, as has been mentioned, of US power plants within the meaning of contracts signed decades ago, this is done in the direction of renewable sources, where there are also very serious violations that have been established by our Commission, this is done both in the direction of factory plants and in the direction of heating. The situation at the moment is such that hundreds of millions of levs run right in the direction of payment at a high price of electricity, of production, which is defined as highly efficient, but is not, in fact, such. With these amendments to the Law, as mentioned, there is in fact a blow to only two enterprises - these are the "Vidahim" and "TEC" - Svishtov. That's the truth. True, they aggravate the situation because they have a value of electricity, which, accordingly, receives the power of the provisions and laws in force, now in the amount of tens of millions of levs, but inexplicably why importers forget that in the direction of heat efficiency and plant power plants, one such drain is also taking place. The justification is that the heating industry is almost performing a socially useful activity related to the provision of hot water and heating during the winter period. The truth is that they all sell electricity and receive revenue above those 35%, which are laid down in the text of the Bill. The question is: why should these heat efficiencys be excluded from restrictive measures for the sale of expensive electricity when they greatly aggravate the situation than the two undertakings mentioned? I cannot accept and accept the answer that because they provided warm water and warm in winter. That can't be an answer. For your information, I would like to inform you of the facts that the Commission established in the summer of last 2015. During the hottest July month, some greenhouses continued to sell the same quantities of electricity at a high price to NEK as they sold in winter. What does that mean? It means the greenhouses were heated at an ambient temperature of 40 degrees. Do you think that's normal and that's not abuse? [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Yeah, maybe they've been putting on air conditioners to cool plants, yeah. Good idea in the circle of irony. A second such case I can give you with heat efficiencys that sell the same quantities of electricity in summer as they sell in winter. I ask the question: Do heat efficiencys again produce the same amount of steam and hot water as in winter, respectively, to sell the same quantities of electricity at a high price to NEK? The answer, of course, is no. In other words, these two examples show that there are abuses that we need to put an end to, we need to cross these abuses. This, unfortunately, is not done with this bill. In this regard, there are legitimate questions: why is there a limit of revenue from electricity 5 million, not 2 million, and not 500 thousand, for example? I'd suggest that number. The second question, which was also asked by the stands: why 35% and not 5% and not 15% and not 45%? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this respect, I will not argue anymore, naturally, that this figure is not well argued, it cannot be twice 18% in the average, let it be 18%. I am proposing that a change in the text be replaced by.500 thousand and instead of.35%.18%. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u49	Are there any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? I can't see. The word for speech has the popular representative Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I absolutely agree with everyone who has said so far that this is not the best text. Of course, these are not the best motivated numbers. It is certain that the effect of them will be 40 million. lv. costs that we save to the National Electric Company. I am clearly conscious, signing under the texts that this is a temporary text. This is not a text that solves the problem in the long term. It is with this text that you see that we forcefully introduced it, and we are already looking at it at second reading in this House, we are trying to solve some problems that arise in the Commission's price formation for energy and water regulation. With the entire Law, we manage to achieve no price hikes, even a reduction in the part of the obligation to society, which inevitably reflects on small and medium-sized businesses who will not be able to benefit from the Regulation, which we are waiting for the approval of the European Commission for large energy consumers. Why am I saying this is a temporary text? Because, when we adopt the texts, after consulting the experts from the World Bank, who are currently making a final report on the state of energy and the way in which we move towards full liberalisation, all electricity producers will compete on the market, and the Energy Security Fund, which we have made together, will compensate for the price differences both of these long-term contracts and of the highly efficient industries, respectively. The problem is that currently the Energy Act does not encourage most people to go to highly efficient industries. That's the truth. In some way, we must provoke them to invest and move on to such highly effective industries that will be promoted to an express fact. For this reason, texts will be proposed to implement, respectively, the European Directive on the direct promotion of this highly efficient production. Texts will be proposed to encourage them and therefore come out of preferential prices that do not invest in such highly efficient production. Understand that this Law, which we are currently proposing, solves a problem that can occur both in the price of end users and small and medium-sized businesses. I think it's a good law at the moment. At the moment, no one is ready to suffer the social consequences if we take out, for example, the cogeneration in connection with satisfying the settlements with heat. Who will solve the environmental consequences? The social consequences of firing thousands of people, of indirect proceedings that supply coal for them? Who's gonna decide that? They will fall like a Damoklev sword on the National Assembly. I think this is a good compromise, which will solve the problem at the moment. I forgot to say I have no conflict of interest with the Energy Act. In a future moment, I am talking in a few months, we will already be ready for new texts that will unify precisely those problems that you have put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Mikov. First line. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikolov: you say who pays the social price? Five hundred workers in the poorest city of Bulgaria and Europe, their families, they pay the social price for such types of solutions. Of course, these 40 million you are saving, because there is a fairy tale: On the flour cheap, the bran expensive............................................................................................. You're buying, and here you're saving little ones... I'm talking about one generating power because I'm not so familiar with the other, but it's probably the same thing. Five hundred workers, a sharp drop in revenue, which I will normally tell you by memory, is 6 million of excise duties and VAT in local tax and customs services from coal imports. That 40 million, I'm sure, when you do that, that's exactly what it's gonna come out. That's why I'm telling you this is an absolute imitation exercise. It will not solve the severe deficits of the National Electricity Company in any way, but will create, will break... here only in Vidin And since there's talk of conflict of interest, let the state hold it. Because it is very easy these industrial industries, which Bulgaria is giving up from two industries, the production of polyamide fibres. Before 9 September Bulgaria produced tires. Now it is so that Bulgaria no longer has the opportunity to make bicycle, carney, tractor and no car tires, but will import. Before 9 September there was a tire factory in Sofia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Our modern state ends with the possibility of producing tires. This is the truth other than general talk here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay. Third line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nikolov, first of all, I will not be able to agree with what you suggested was a temporary text and we are temporarily solving things. The National Assembly is not a fire institution so that it can extinguish fires. Each proposal must be justified and justified precisely by here, including by the importers, it is not just you and Mr. Martin Dimitrov. The question that you have raised here about cross-subsidisation and the possibility of how and in what way to provide the Sofians and those living in larger cities to receive less heat is another topic, colleagues, is not a debate for today. If you want, this debate can be very serious in energy, this House can take a very serious decision, but what you are proposing right now does not deal with the issue of cross-subsidisation. Once again, I say to you: Highly efficient production, everyone who has invested in this area must receive just as much money as he has produced that heat for the production of the next production, no more or less. With this, Mr. Martin Dimitrov, we stop the flow of energy money, not turn into accountants here and watch, say, yes, they get 5 levs, we'll multiply by 2, we'll give them 10 levs. Why 10 leva?? There is a law, I ask you to obey this law! If what you are proposing at the moment is not thought out, let us stop considering the Law, because it is proposed with a good idea, but you know that the road to hell was covered only with good ideas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, colleagues, all that is necessary to do to stop the energy leak All that needs to be resolved with cross-subsidisation in order to provide jobs and comfort to certain individuals is a separate topic and a debate can be held in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u55	Third line, the esteemed Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Nikolov, once again I would like to say that I support the aim, the idea of your proposal, but I have a very serious concern that it will produce a positive result in a very short time. This bothers me because, by introducing one parameter, the revenues of each cogeneration plant. Come on, highly efficient, which is not always, can not exceed for electricity over 35%, I am worried that this will stimulate those who are now about ten, fifteen, on average eighteen percent of the revenue from the sale of electricity. In a few months, they will do what is necessary to achieve the 35 percent that the Law authorises them. That's what worries me very much that it will lead to the opposite result. In addition, I ask again: why didn't we try, come on, not put all the heat in, but at least those that are the biggest that work clearly inefficiently? Because with this Law, we do not encourage heat efficiency to improve their production, to introduce new technical introductions with which to actually increase their efficiency as production, but on the contrary, we leave them to continue to work inefficiently or to continue to load all of us with the cost of electricity. In this regard, in conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to just one fact. There is a factory -- Brickel. -- I don't know what heat efficiency is and how much is a production company that doesn't fit into that category and for which there was no data provided in the Energy Commission's table that you introduced us to. I also have data from the production of Brickel. I want to inform you that they have 64,51% of their electricity revenue. Sixty-four percent! In fact, this Brikel is working only to sell expensive electricity and to make perhaps briquettes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I don't know, thank you. I think with the little amendments I've proposed, the law will become more effective, but it must continue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, let us stop speculation that by multiplying by two, almost, we allow all combined industries to take more than the National Electricity Company. That's not true. With the changes to the Energy Act that we have made, with the controls to be placed at the entrance and at the exit, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has enough tools to monitor these things. That is, we do not mechanically give them the opportunity to increase the revenue from the sale of electricity so that they can reach that 35%. That's not true, that's not true. Every year we have done it every month already, they notify the Commission of energy and water regulation, there are relevant appliances that are connected online with the electricity system operator, where absolutely all parameters are monitored. I mean, you can't produce steam to put into the air. This was, indeed, it was, but with the changes to the Energy Act, we have limited this. Why did we insert these texts? Because most of the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation are actually appealed in court. There is a risk that the Commission's decisions which restrict precisely such outrage may not be limited and enter into the Commission's price decision on energy and water regulation in the next period. In addition, I want to tell Mr. Mikov about these 500 families, I absolutely agree, that is the case. The problem is that many companies have been harming Vidahim, piling up huge profits on the back of all citizens. Otherwise, I agree with these 500 families, the social programs need to be made. It's not necessary, I apologize, for a factory to get 90% of the electricity and 10% of the tire production just so we can support these 500 families. The state really needs to intervene there. But I apologize to that feeder, a lot of people got rich. And you know it, there's no point in me telling you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you are, dear Mr. Mikov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this Law is an occasion for one thing: where is the state in the economy? Because the state can at the moment contain Vidahim, only the state, the government, the minister of his economy is very convenient.. has obligations to the reserve, there are many obligations on which the state can step if it wants to keep this as part of the energy. However, it is very convenient for the state to introduce regulations, including one of these, and to justify it with the privates. Why not enter the country there to keep the production of tires in Bulgaria? Car tires are produced in Romania, tires are produced in Serbia. What are they more industrially developed, richer?! What countries are they? [[Heckling]] I don't know what it's like, but I guess it's the same thing. This is a typical example of a clear policy of deindustrialization of Bulgaria, of staying in Bulgaria for low added value industries. And this is being passed through the legislation, through the government's policy with some ridiculous excuses, with the ridiculous excuse that the deficits in NEK will be solved by these two cheques, against the backdrop of the four hundred billion years of Bulgaria's production! This is negligible and does not solve any problem. I make my speech just to make it clear, because often under these political words, people are deluded about the real things of life. The real things of life are these.. ends the possibility of production of automotive tyres in Bulgaria, of polyamide fibers! This work started when "Neftohim" was sold and by Combinat for deep extraction of pheromas became a common refinery, it was destroyed the production of caprolactan in Stara Zagora and now, ladies and gentlemen, set cucumbers, tomatoes, grow sheep and wonder why Bulgarian citizens go to countries where there is much higher added value that is obtained in an economy related to industries! And this is just part of the question: who introduced these non-market prices of TPP 1 and TPP-3, why in the years had Bulgarian citizens to cover them? This is how a country is ruined, not done, but destroyed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. You want a line, Mr. Kanev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u62	Dear Mr. Mikov, since I share much of your concerns... However, I cannot accept the logic you are looking for and the occasion in this Law, which you are introducing to express the fears of many of the Bulgarian citizens. Do we really have to accept that an industry in Bulgaria is only possible through a factual direct indication originating from the pocket of every citizen, as far as every citizen is a consumer of electricity? Is that a symbol of industry? Do we really need to look at this as a symbol of the country's industrialisation, the revival of industry or the preservation of this industry, an enterprise of the type Vidahim, which is legendary with its market failure? Which, for years, everyone knows, in fact, that they produce a limited amount of tires that do not have any market realization, in the name of this, several oligarchs to be charged with huge bills of a disproportionate expensive current. I'm sorry, but there's no tire production in Vidahim, and you know it a lot better than I do because you're from this constituency! There's electricity production there for the sole purpose of gaining electricity! We cannot give this example of industrialization because it turns out that this is the industry in Bulgaria. Not to mention that the lack of modern tire production in Vidin is due to something quite different and it is due to several bold attempts at various governments, one of which belongs to the Bulgarian Socialist Party, but only one of which is outrageous on potential investors in Vidahim, expressed in the request of millions of euro bribes to start an investment and modernization. Why don't you set an example for a successful industry and for example Brikel? I congratulate Mr. Simeonov for daring to say that. It is clear that we are silent there only because of the thousands of workers, we close our eyes to outrageous, monstrous thefts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Mikov has the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kanev, it's a good thing you're asking this question. In 1998, I have three questions: one to Ivan Kostov, then Prime Minister, two to Muravei Radev, and if you read them, you will see who killed Vidahim after the anti-dumping measures by the government of Jean Videnov were not extended when they broke out. Intentionally, the words of "Barum" in the Czech Republic, in the factory store, were more expensive than the tires sold in Bulgaria. It is not only with subsidies that industry is supported! With state economic policy! Take out the transcripts, write "Everything that is happening today is part of what was laid down in 1998 consciously! It's here in the National Assembly's transcripts! Ivan Kostov and Muravei Radev, who did not continue the anti-dumping duties, the Bulgarian market was taken over by imported production and this was the first hit on While there is a government that tolerates Bulgaria only as a market and not as opportunities for industrial production and export, so it will be. And this is the Bulgarian right during the whole transition. If you have any information about any corruption requirements, take them out, you know where the prosecution is. Because such speculation killed additional Bulgarian production. I can get you out not only for Vidahim, and for other cases when a government did not think like a Bulgarian government, but as a trading company.. how to patch the situation, where will the money come from and so on. This many Bulgarians sent them to work abroad and will be leaving more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Mr. Ermenkov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The discussion that we are bringing here today is indeed extremely serious, although it is largely coming out of the specific proposals that have been tabled for discussion. But it can't help but come out of these frameworks because, ultimately, energy is part of the state's economy, and there is no possibility that part of this economy will be good for you and the rest of it will be bad for you. There is no way today to solve all the problems that 25 years have accumulated in the field of economics and industrialization, i.e. deindustrialization, in order to be more precise with the term what is happening in Bulgaria, deeconomicization of Bulgaria, if I may say so, its transformation into a large store of imported goods. This is true and this is really a serious conversation and it is perhaps a topic that should be discussed not only in Parliament, but in a much wider range of stakeholders, if you will do it as a round table of the 1990s, because this really needs to be the foundation and defining for the future of Bulgaria. There is no way to solve all the problems in energy today related to the truly distorted debalanced system for the benefit of privates. In a little while this will be proven again with the next article of this Law, which we will discuss, but when the time comes, I will talk about it. Really right now, we're trying to clog holes with one rug, which, when we pull it off one end to plug one of the holes, we rip it off at the other end. And that's because we're still looking for options to balance the system through taxically, I think Mr. Atalay mentioned it to one of the committees, methods of collecting money through fees, not by market methods and stimulating efficiency. We continue to look for a way to plug the holes in NEK without caring about what is going on in NEK itself, what is the cost there, whether it is proper management, whether this today's management of NEK meets the requirements and whether it makes the relevant reforms. But unfortunately, we're in a situation where we're under pressure. There's a price period. In the end, really, if we look, as cruel as it sounds, the common interests of the Bulgarian people, it is good to look for the options in which the price of electricity is not raised. One of these options is currently proposed by importers. Because, indeed, with 10 pennies, even 20 pennies to raise people's electricity, this will not be good against the backdrop of this poverty to which the Bulgarian people are brought. Again, as a result of deindustrialization, as a result of all the actions that led to this deeconomicization of Bulgaria. I therefore call on you: today, let us support those who think they can be supported as a temporary solution, indeed, it is temporary. Note that Mr. Simeonov has introduced an additional bill that has already been allocated for viewing, namely in the area of cogeneration. Let us then enter into a larger dispute what is this highly efficient production, because there is also Regulation 16-267, if I am not mistaken, since 2008, which defines it as parameters and which gives the relevant laws. But today, indeed, we are at the border when time demands that we make this decision so that we can, however, largely, somewhat tax-free, I completely deny this approach in energy, but for now the only possible way to enable the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to form prices that will not lead to further aggravation of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u67	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We move on to the vote of § 1 and the proposals to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u68	Dear colleagues, we will first vote on a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov and Martin Dimitrov on the topic. 2 which is not supported by the Commission. 1 is accepted, times c. 2 is rejected, we are voting unsupported by the Commission proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 58, against 25, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an editorial proposal made in the plenary of the Parliamentary Representative Valeri Simeonov in § 1, in art. 30 is created. 4 I read for clarity: The Commission shall not regulate prices for the sale of heat and shall not set prices under art. 33, para. 1 of producers which, according to the audited annual financial statements for some of the previous three calendar years, have a total annual revenue of more than 5 million... Mr. Simeonov's offer is 500 thousand. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u69	Can we do it separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u70	Exactly, we vote them separately to replace the figure We vote! They voted 120 MPs: 43, against 14, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. After the "5 000 000" sentence continues: Their revenues from the sale of electricity from cogeneration of heat and electricity exceed 35 percent of their total annual revenues. Isn't that right, Mr. Simeonov? Yeah. Voting regime, honourable Members. Are there any colleagues who didn't vote? I don't see any raised hand. Vote 127 MPs: 57 against 4, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The banal reason I'm asking for a re-vote is that someone hasn't voted. Yes, there are. But my request is to really try to help Bulgarian energy. It's the only solution we're gonna save hundreds of millions here. Be patriots! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. It's true that it's a banal reason, because I asked if there was anyone who didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u73	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Dear colleagues, the revoting regime of the figure is replaced by the figure of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov. [[Noise and lines. The result of the vote on the dashboard has been announced. Members of Parliament shall enter the Chamber.]] I'm sorry, I don't take lines for 33 seconds I've been waiting. The fact that there are people wandering outside in the hallways is no reason. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] They voted 126 MPs: 62, against 8, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. [[BSP LB.]] Honourable Members, I request silence in this Chamber. We are voting for the proposal to create a new § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 112 against 4, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Nikolov, you are
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Dragomir Stoinev. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u76	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In my previous speech, I set an example of how we continue the policy of stabilizing NEK by loading state-owned enterprises in the energy sector. Given that the Electricity System Security Fund is being filled into two thirds of state-owned power-generating enterprises, we are now adding the other two state-owned enterprises that have been lost in the system, which are ECO and Bulgartransgaz, which we will also benefit by 5%. Adding to the fact that the US power plants as private investors should pay 5% additionally in this Fund, but under the existing contracts NEK pays them these 5%, you understand that the We propose, because it is very difficult to explain to the government and the ruling majority, that tax methods cannot solve energy problems, but at least we could put on a fair basis, as in the Constitution are equal state and private property and instead of merely taxing electricity, energy transport companies, to put those involved in distribution. The difference is in nothing other than energy or energy transport services in the case of gas. The difference is that in the case of electricity it is about different voltages, and in the case of natural gas it is about different pressure. There is no other difference between the transport service carried out by the undertakings. The other difference I told you is that one is private and the other is state-owned. We're putting the state down, and we're missing the private. Here they will certainly come up with the arguments that if we also bet private investors, i.e. electricity distribution and gas distribution companies with this fee, we will reach into their ability to make investments. Then I ask: why does this not apply to the ESO and to the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) what, are we not going to reach into the investment, or are there over-profits?! This will probably work out in the end: because ESOs have a lot of money, we can take from them. Then I ask: why, since the ESO collects so much money, we do not reduce the transmission fee, which will reduce the price of electricity and achieve the same effect for the price of final aggregate electricity Then this will be on a market basis. We will enable businesses in the small and medium-sized sector to work with electricity at a lower price, with which we will develop the economy, which is a market principle. Why don't we?! Perhaps it is easier to say that state enterprises are obedient to public policy, and whatever the parliament tells them and orders the government, they will do it, they will not complain anywhere, because in the end, if they complain, we will dismiss their directors for not taking the normal steps. This is the reason why we are actually only taxing state-owned enterprises because we are worried that if we also bet private distribution companies, we will get to a situation where the private parties, because the state cannot order them to complain or not to complain, they will complain in the European Commission and the fee will fall both for them and for the state because it is generally illegal! Therefore, colleagues, I ask you very much, if we are going to support the text in principle, let us support it in the form that we from Coalition of Bulgaria's Socialist Party, left Bulgaria, with a level playing field in the taxation of private and state property. Otherwise, they begin to see interests that are not at all pleasant and make the Bulgarians think that we are the stupidest country he takes of himself to give private companies, which, by the way, do not even pay taxes in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u78	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov. I'm going to ask you before the lineup, for the shorthand recording, you missed reading from the text the unsupported proposal of BSP LB. It became clear from Mr. Ermenkov's statement. Read it, then you have the right to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u79	In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the created new t. 3 the words the transmission network operator shall be replaced by the transmission and distribution network operators. 2. In the created new t. 4 after the word "gas transmissions', the word "gas distributions' is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u80	Now you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, I would like to remind you that in June of last year, you made a similar proposal, with which I agreed at that time to place 5% on these two companies. I would also agree with your proposal. I said it at first reading, and now I'm going to repeat it again: the only big problem I see to agree with this is the Investment Promotion Act, first. Secondly, the agreements that we have concluded with the Czech Republic and the State of Austria to promote investment. You know there's an arbitrage case in Washington. We're being sued for a small sum. My concern is that cases will increase if we accept this text. Because we cannot guarantee that this will not happen, I do not want to risk burdening the Bulgarian taxpayer with a much greater amount. I think your proposal from June last year is now being implemented in this bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u82	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u83	Dear Mr. Nikolov, what we have then proposed is the same thing that we are now proposing that electricity distribution and transmission companies be placed on the table. We didn't separate transmission companies from distribution companies. What you're doing is accepting half of our offer. I must tell you that the logic whether and how we violate the Investment Protection Act is quite controversial, because I say again: the two properties are equal to the Law, whether private or state. There is no reason for one to be subject to taxes, fees or anything, and the other not to be taxed, because in this case you place one undertaking in a preferential position before another undertaking which performs the same activity. I don't agree with what you're saying as an argument. I only recognise your concerns that this will fall into the European Commission because, in principle, this way of raising money hardly corresponds to European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to clarify the proposals made under § 1. Colleagues, there's a clash of two philosophies here. The first is what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms proposed for a differentiated approach to fundraising to the Fund. Those enterprises, whether private or state, here I open a clamp for my colleagues from BSP, because they keep repeating that we are constantly attacking state-owned enterprises and not attacking private companies, which is not true, but this is not the subject, those who have high preferential prices had to bring a higher percentage to the Fund. Those who built photovoltaics, vices at low investment prices and received high preferential prices had to bring a much higher percentage to the Fund. The proposal of colleagues from GERB was of all groups, in one cup to collect 5%, whether they participate in the formation of the deficit to the Fund or the deficit in the payment of green and brown energy, to pay 5%. In the clash today it is evident that we are trying to collect the deficit in the Fund not only from the enterprises that produce electricity, but also from the enterprises that transport the transmission companies. And that's why now that colleagues are proposing and others are asking why electricity distribution companies are not included, the idea is not because they are private, but because they are a transport company. Instead of bringing 5% of the ESO power plant together at the moment, we had to move on to another action, colleagues, namely to reduce the transmission charge to the ESO, so that we could secure a price for electricity that is fair to society. I am not saying low price, I am not saying a price that does not cover cost, but that price, which is set by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and creates high collection rate, a lot of revenue and the ECO. In order not to allow the ESO to currently have 100 or 200 million profits and to spend them as they see fit, better, colleagues, even if it is temporary, to support what colleagues currently offer for the 5 per cent for the ESO and the Bulgartransgaz. The next step we need to take, fellow Members, is to address this Fund as that institution that must cover that shortage of green and brown energy, or this Fund to be like the Health Insurance Fund, from where they can provide and pay any income that is not covered and not by the National Electric Company. If we do not do this thing, NEK will always be harmed, it will always be that enterprise that one way or another will have to stir into those funds that are not there to pay. I therefore propose that we support this text for now so that we can enable both the National Electricity Company and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to move towards a next step to see what we do with the Fund and how we will structure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any lines to Mr. Atalay's statement? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. Honourable Members, first we vote on the proposal from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Zhelyo Boychev and Dobromir Stoinev, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 117 MPs: 29, against 23, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u87	Mr. Chairman, I would read the next text, but it was related to the vote on this one, so I'm going to read it again, because we have to put it to the vote. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u88	We vote on what Valentin Nikolov has just read on the proposal of the importer for § 1, which becomes § 2, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u89	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording of the name: "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u90	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name "Transitional and final provisions" supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The proposal for the name "Transitional and final provisions" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u91	The Commission proposes to establish § 3: .................................................. The proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this Law for the regulation of prices for the sale of heat for the determination of prices under art. 33, para. 1 shall be terminated if the conditions laid down in Article 1 are met. 30, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 3. Please vote, colleagues. Vote 112, MPs: 110, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u94	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for § 2, which becomes § 4 supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u95	Proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov, Alexander Nenkov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on Climate Change limitation (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "s71 per cent of "s' shall be used. 2. Art. 58 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u96	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 5. Please vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted and the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 654-01-66, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016, was also adopted in a second vote. Before I give the floor for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, one message, honourable Members: from 11.30 am in the Club of the National Representative will be opened documentary exhibition. The exhibition was prepared jointly by the Political Party "People's Union" and the State Agency "Archives" and presents the life and activity of the prominent statesman and politician in the past years for our country. All MPs are invited to the opening. After the declaration, the holiday until 12:00 p.m. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately for the entire Bulgarian society, parents and teachers, the constant crisis in which secondary education is located does not seem to end, regardless of whether new laws have been adopted, have the ministers been changed and how many deputy ministers there are. On the contrary, the novelties follow a new Law, a new leadership of the Ministry of Education and Science, strengthened, almost airport control over rewriting of poor students, replaced police functions of directors and teachers during the exams. The external evaluation after the 7th grade in recent years has become a public sorrow and a severe test for the management of the Ministry of Education. This year there is no exception, regardless of Ms. Kuneva's lacquered promises. External assessment, rather than fulfilling its main focus, namely to give a common national criterion for assessing students' knowledge, is becoming a constant source of stress for students and parents, for our whole society and for acute public response and distrust against the entire education system. The main question that we are interested in today is: when will the drop downhill of the Bulgarian school stop? How many declarations should be read from this tribune and how many times the BSP should say that the adopted Law, practices in the Ministry of Education, the way standards are adopted, the forced entry of the Law into force, the lack of textbooks for the V grade, all created unprecedented chaos in the system of secondary education, which will only strengthen. I warn the parties that support the ruling majority of the House of Education, because the likelihood of confidence being shaken there, the residual trust in your government is enormous! The results of this year's exam are publicly known.. They are worse than those last year. The short assessment is that 4189 children, or almost 9%, do not know Bulgarian because they have pairs of external evaluation! About 16 000.. a figure that we couldn't learn after all what it was, from the students, from the appearing 53 212 of external evaluation have pairs in mathematics, which makes more than 31%! Dear colleagues, 31% have pairs of external mathematics evaluation! We do not need to say that the results of the external evaluation are completely contrary to all the strategic plans and oaths of the Prime Minister, his strategists, the amazing deputy ministers for the future technological development of Bulgaria; in complete violation of Mr. Plevneliev's ideas, which would make Bulgaria a kingdom of information and information technologies! Full balloon on that background! Unfortunately, the adopted new secondary education law does not eliminate the main shortcomings that lead to these results. The structure of education and primary education will now be completed after the second grade. Students from I to IV class do not receive grades and pass automatically from class to class.V, until three years after the completion of the IV class they are hit on the head by the Ministry with the so-called external assessment and with modules which even they themselves do not understand! The new structure of education provides for the completion of primary education after the 7th grade. That is, after these external evaluation assessments, more than 31% of students who have received couples will not be able to complete primary education! All these things I think we said several times during the adoption of the Law. We explained what the new structure of secondary school means. The conversation was like a deaf one. The result is now disastrous! The other option is to give them some grade at school so they can graduate from the 7th grade! You do understand what a ridiculous situation we're getting at here, don't you? And perhaps this is the reason why our draft law, which was entitled the Education Act, was rejected because the goal is not the education of the nation, but the aim is to read statistics from the Ministry of Education, which even they themselves do not understand, as the investigation of the National Television showed. Deputy Minister Diyan Stamatov does not know the assessments in the external evaluation of mathematics for which module are written, in which module how weak the assessments are and how to calculate them in the end! It's a freaking situation! Head of the Ministry of Education has illiterate political leadership. I think that's the point. And here I want to stop another chaos by announcing the results of the exams created by the Ministry's leadership. The reason why Deputy Minister Diyan Stamatov tried to hide the results of the mathematics exam was not clear by announcing 3800 couples after it turned out that they were 16 000! National TV conducted its own investigation into the case and, I believe, if this information had not been made public today, the Ministry of Education and Science would have convinced us how couples have declined several times compared to last year. Well, that's exactly what couldn't happen. And here I would like to stress that regardless of the possibilities of modern political advertising, the leadership of the Ministry of Education has been polished. The truth is cruel and uncompromising, the whole of Bulgaria sees it not only the ruling majority, the cabinet and the Prime Minister. After all, what is the answer to the simple question: why does Stamatov lie insolently and insolently? Because, esteemed Members of the National Assembly, respected Bulgarian public, honourable journalists, on June 19th, in the Hall of Armeets is scheduled a gigantic Master's Council, a mega-event with a vague purpose, but with clear costs! Fifteen thousand teachers will be gathered to read to them the Minister of Education the new Education Act! It's a ridiculous political event! The education system has become another field for the realization of PR of one or two Bulgarian politicians, of which the qualities have long been well known to the Bulgarian public! Such a miracle, like this council, our teaching community doesn't remember! A meeting to explain the application of a law! Perhaps by this logic, after every law we pass in this Chamber, we should gather the miners, the chemists, the doctors in the Armeec Hall to explain the law to them. I hope the Prime Minister stops this insane event. And more specifically, let's figure out what's going on. How will fifth grade students start studying without textbooks? Who's gonna teach them after 123 directors have been retired? Not to mention the teachers. How should the history book be interpreted in one school or how will it be taught in the next textbook, which has nothing to do with the textbook of this school next door? This is the result, honourable Members, of the general reform efforts for secondary education, which have become an abuse on parents, students and the educational system as a whole! Quality is dropping, fellow Members! Education is falling downhill. The motivation of teachers disappears, parents and Bulgarian society are in perplexity. We expect the Ministry of Education to analyze the results and the reasons for the constantly deteriorating results in external evaluation, to change the adopted supposedly new secondary education law so that the trust of Bulgarian citizens can be restored to the education system. And finally, Prime Minister, this is happening in your yard! Not even in the backyard of your government, but in the front yard, the schoolyard of your government. Who will bear responsibility for all that is happening?? The Minister of Education Mrs. Kuneva, Mr. Prime Minister, by resigning or Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov, who was forced to lie blatantly on the National Television? [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u98	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. At 12:00 we continue with the Energy and Water Regulation Commission Activity Report 2015 Half an hour off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u99	Dear Members of Parliament, please take your seats in plenary. We continue on the announced agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION FOR 2015 The Commission's report on energy must first be presented. Mr. Nikolov, please submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the 2015 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report, No 620-00-9, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 31 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Energy Commission examined the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report 2015 (inc. No 620-00-9, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by: Assoc. Dr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman; Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Mrs. Svetla Todorova, Mr. Georgi Zlatev, Mr. Remzi Osman, Mr. Alexander Yordanov, Mr. Vladko Vladimirov, Mr. Dimitar Kochkov and Mr. Valentin Petkov. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Ivanov. The exhibition stated that this was the first report after the election of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission directly by the National Assembly, and one of the most important objectives was to increase confidence in its work. Specific data were given on the Commission's meetings in directions and on the difficulties caused by the limited financial resources during the year. Mr. Ivanov noted the main directions in which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has been working over the past year. First is the financial stabilisation of the energy sector. Secondly is the establishment of the regulatory framework for liberalization of the electricity market in Bulgaria. In this respect, changes in the rules on electricity trading were adopted in August. The third direction is the establishment of regulatory acts within the framework of the reform that is taking place in the sector of Viki. With the help of the World Bank, the Commission is developing two regulations, one for the quality of drinking water and the other for the prices of drinking water. Structural changes have been made with regard to the control and resolution of complaints. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................... 15 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of the discussion and subsequent vote, the Energy Committee proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015, No 620-00-9, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u101	Thank you. The next opinion is from the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u102	"COMMODITY" on the 2015 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report, No 620-00-9, submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 31 March 2016. At its meeting held on 21 April 2016, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC discussed the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report for 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mr. Ivan Ivanov. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Ivanov. The exhibition stated that this was the first report after the election of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission directly by the National Assembly, and one of the most important objectives was to increase confidence in its work. The Commission has managed to make significant progress in implementing the legal and regulatory requirements, and price policy has led to a significant improvement in the state of the National Electricity Company. Specific data were given on the Commission's meetings in directions and on the difficulties caused by the limited financial resources during the year. The following discussion raised questions from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Tasco Ermenkov, Georgi Nedev and Dragomir Stoynov. In the context of the discussion on the questions asked, it was noted that it was necessary to strengthen the internal control activity in preparation of the Commission's decisions. Attention was paid to the need for a more active position when changing the forms of financial support for green energy producers and heating companies. The need to apply administrative and criminal measures to licensees who do not fulfil legally regulated obligations, such as the purchase of energy facilities (trafoposts) has been emphasised. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................... 15 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Monitoring Commission of the activities of the SEWRC proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: Project! DECISION on the 2015 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's Activity Report 2015 No 620-00-9 submitted by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 31 March 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. The draft decision has also been presented. Go ahead, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, as well as of the members Valentin Petkov, Svetla Todorova, Alexander Yordanov, Vladko Vladimirov, Dimitar Kochkov, Remi Osman and Georgi Zlatev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u105	Honourable Members of Parliament, vote for admission to the Chamber of the President and Members of the Commission. Vote 68 MPs: 66, none, abstention 2. Please invite the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to the House. I will give the floor to Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission. Until now, the opinions of the specialized committees have been heard. You have the opportunity to make a summary of the report you have submitted to the National Assembly within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you are looking at the first Annual Report of the current Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC). In the light of the circumstances, its presentation coincides with the date when this composition of the Commission was elected. When the Commission took office, the state of Bulgarian energy was extremely difficult. To justify this claim, I would argue that only in the National Electricity Company (NEC) the accumulated old liabilities were of the order of 3 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, of which one billion and 300 million for the project "Belene"; one billion for the project "Tsank Stone"; at that time more than 900 million to the two US power plants for the purchase of the amount of electricity, as well as an additional between 300 and 400 million to other electricity producers, to which NEK owed the corresponding amounts. In addition, for the last year before our inauguration, NEC reported a current deficit of 586 million. Thanks to your decision, which entered into force on 2 April last year, the Commission entered into office with clearly defined powers. First of all, the Commission, under the Law, was already a political independent body because it was elected precisely by the legislative supreme authority of the state. I would like to assure you that within the past year and two months there is no case where the Commission has been subjected to political pressure. In addition, the Commission in its actions acts in a professional and independent way and in corporate interests. There is nothing more important than public interest and no corporate can break through the Commission until this is our basic principle of action. I assure you, that will be the case in the future. What action did the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission take, which are fully described in the Report before you? First of all, the energy system had to be financially stabilized. This was achieved, firstly, thanks to the legal changes that took place last year, on 6 March and 24 July respectively, and entered into force, and accordingly the Commission adequately reflected them in its price decisions. In line with these legal changes, we were able to reduce NEK's financial deficit at the end of the year from 586 million to just below 200 million. BGN and for the first quarter of 2016 NEK is on a profit of 39 million. lv. This is indeed an important result, which shows that the energy system in these actions and price decisions from our country is stabilizing financially. Next, the Commission applied in a really adequate way the Energy Act, which required fair distribution of the burdens of preferential prices, which are given for three segments of electricity producers, is for the two plants in the Marishka Basin, for cogeneration and for RES plants. The same value has been established of the obligation towards society for all consumers of electricity. Although this met resistance from the Bulgarian industry, in the end, after heavy and prolonged talks, they really understood that this is the fair approach and other reserves should be sought. Such other reservations the National Assembly found in the amendments to the Law, which were voted on July 24th with the introduction of the "Secretary System Security" Fund. The revenue from the Fund, which is of two main directions, above all from the sale of carbon allowances, as well as from a five-percent contribution of all electricity producers, regardless of the nature of their primary source, has allowed sufficient funds to be collected to compensate for the cost of NEK, which is made for the purchase of electricity at preferential prices. To all this, I would add that through our decisions a serious reduction in the amount of high-efficiency electricity was achieved and at its price, which is bought from the cogenerations in the country for both heating and plant plants. Of 650 million. BGN, which NEK spent as a cost of buying such energy, with our last price decision on April 1 it decreased to only 415 million. BGN, and with the new price decision will fall from the order of 370 million. The costs of NEK were reduced to approximately 50%. The costs which NEK gives for renewable energy were also reduced because, firstly, the definition of net specific production was introduced and the own-use consumption of the plants was taken into account and reduced in terms of the quantity purchased from them. In addition, outside the regulated hours for the purchase of electricity at preferential prices, power plants had to realise energy as an excess on the free market or directly enter the market and sell electricity at freely negotiated prices. In conclusion, I can say that, all the time, the Commission, apart from these important actions, with which it was an important element of the energy sector reform that was taking place, I say, an important element, because the reform is actually carried out by three pillars: The Bulgarian Parliament, especially the Energy Commission, through which the amendments to the Law were initiated and accordingly voted in the framework of last year, as well as the last change shortly ago. The second pillar of the Energy Ministry, whose Minister Temenuzhka Petkova at every moment with the right actions supported the Commission's decisions on energy and water regulation and in its person we saw an absolutely correct and professional working partner. The third pillar is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission itself, which, with its price decisions, must implement both the amendments to the Law and the policy that follows the Ministry. Energy is like a three-legged chair if one of the three pillars is missing, it is like not having one of the three legs and therefore the chair becomes unstable and sitting on it, and these are the Bulgarian domestic consumers and the Bulgarian industry, respectively, fall to the ground. Mr. President, without going into details, I would nevertheless like to point out that during this period the Commission worked with Bulgarian consumers on a much larger scale than before. Indeed, the number of complaints that were addressed to the Commission was significantly greater, on the one hand, showing that the Commission's involvement in the resolution of such disputes is indeed necessary, but also an element of confidence in the Commission as a body capable of resolving consumer complaints fairly. In its litigations, first of all, with the three electricity distribution companies to which the Commission for Electronic and Water Regulatory is a party, and these cases are 825 in number, so far the Commission has won 263 cases, with the relevant criminal decrees in force and the majority of the other cases continue the procedure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention and for the support that the Bulgarian Parliament has provided for the implementation of the reform of the Bulgarian energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Several MPs have already applied for speeches. In the order of the parliamentary groups these are: Mr. Valentin Nikolov from GERB, Mr. Borislav Velikov from the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Georgi Nedev from the Bulgarian Democratic Center - People's Union, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov from BSP left Bulgaria. If there are others, they can get involved. The word is Mr. Nikolov. If the discussion imposes representatives of the Commission will then be able to respond before the decision is taken. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this is the Commission's first report in this Chamber. I would like to start shortly before the Commission's very election. In order for this to be possible and to work the three pillars Mr. Ivanov spoke of, we had to reduce the political speech, precisely in the In order to be able to make constructive decisions, dialogue had to be more technological and expert, and to reduce the political charges of this or other parliamentary groups for previous governments accordingly. I think this is exactly what we have achieved with the forty-third National Assembly. We all sat down at the same table, no one took credit for what is currently happening in the sector. We managed to do very good things together. The very fact that the previous Law we adopted, the dialogue was very good, very expert and there was no mutual accusation of this or that. I think we've accomplished a lot of things. The first, of course, we have achieved, is the independence of this Commission, which we were able to choose in this Forty-third National Assembly. At the very least, with the election, we have been able to increase consumer confidence in the Commission, which is one of the biggest problems of our statehood at all, because we have a lack of confidence in specific institutions. I think that trust in the Commission has already reached the necessary levels so that the decisions it makes can be assessed properly by society. The second thing is that the National Assembly in its entirety, in all groups, and with the good speeches and proposals being made, we managed not to raise the price of electricity, but to achieve a balance so as not to increase deficits in the National Electricity Company, and to even reduce some of the debts that have accumulated over the years. I think that exactly the three pillars Ivan Ivanov talked about, we should maintain them in symbiosis, in good partnership, so that energy can find its impact in both prices and investments. What is lacking in our energy, these are investments in new technologies, in new industries, and we must work accordingly for the vision of our energy. Before that, in order to think about such things, about the accumulation of specific capital for investment, we therefore need to cure our energy from old pains. We need to modernize it, get it into a new competitive environment. This competitive environment will, of course, have a negative impact on some industries. Of course, we will have to make some force majeure amendments to the Law, as we did with the previous Decision amending the Energy Act, but this is the right path, and I would like to give a high assessment to the entire Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. With her work so far, she has not violated the trust that the National Assembly has voted on and that the consumers expected them to have. I would also like to congratulate them and, accordingly, all those in the National Assembly who take an active position on these ill questions, because in this way we will preserve our energy and find the future vision of continuing investment for new capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines to Mr. Nikolov's statement? I can't see. To make a speech there is the popular representative from the Reformation Bloc "Borislav Veliev." Here you are, Mr. Veliv, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Assoc. Ivanov, representatives of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! Indeed, from the report presented to us from the presentation of Assoc. Ivanov, it is evident that our National Assembly made a correct move a year ago, choosing a Commission that is actually more independent in its approaches, has a more expert approach, also something that is undoubtedly valuable and I expect almost unanimously to support the report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015. My thesis, which I developed a year ago, and in other cases personally with Assoc. I have developed Ivanov, and before other colleagues from the Commission it is that there is once again an understatement of the water sector. After all, the Commission is for energy and water regulation, and we have witnessed, probably due to the lack of time that today in the exhibition of Assoc. Ivanov the President of the Commission, for the water sector there was not a word. Of course, this understatement is probably also due to some objective reasons. Perhaps the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission needs greater human or expert potential, capacity, and resources if necessary. If so, let us answer the questions assoc. Ivanov should also focus on this issue and whether we should help the National Assembly to help, in this sense, improve the Commission's expertise. A few examples that are also seen in part by the report and, on the other hand, those of us who follow, although remotely, the work of the Commission, we could point out. For example, prices relating to electricity supply companies are considered regularly at six months, to the best of my knowledge, while the prices of water services are considered more irregular on demand, under a more steep procedure. Some water operators received an interim price update before expected in early 2017, and others do not, and we know that for some water companies that mostly draw water from groundwater with pumps, the prices of this pumping water should undoubtedly be updated when it is updated, understood and increased the price of electricity. This somewhat passive attitude as if, which gives an impression to the issues raised by the Bulgarian Water Association and trade union organisations, should really be addressed, since updating prices and water services is in view of necessary investments and improvement of services, career development in the industry and so on. The report notes that some of these remarks are likely to be resolved with the adoption and application of new regulations, regulations and the progress of water reform. What we do know is that two regulations were adopted in time to regulate water service prices and to regulate the quality of water services. Personally, I am also impressed by what is noted in the report, the comparative analysis of the work of the water sector in our country. In my opinion, the more accurate concept of what is noted in other parts of the report as a benchmarking, but this is something that is good and needs to be continued. Whether there is a movement between the preparation of the report and the present moment with regard to the regulation on the definition of requirements and criteria for water operators, I am not aware. I would ask for an answer afterwards: why is it delayed, if this is really still a fact, the lack of this regulation or the single information system for water services, the register of associations and water operators and some other regulations that are required also by adopted amendments to the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation? In a nutshell, one last topic. The report notes, which is true, that the threshold of social tolerability of the prices of water services has been reduced from 4% to 2,5%. This really limits the possibilities for increasing the prices of water services, but it also limits the investment opportunities of water operators to improve the water supply network, the outgoing collectors and so on. It seems to me that in the long run this is not right. I would also ask for an attitude on this issue, Professor Ivanov, or someone here from my colleagues, since this is the case when some municipal council does not wish to join the water company to a single water service operator of the district, in the case of Montana, is with the water service, let's say, because they believe that the water price will rise, even though it will remain below the threshold of tolerance, then if we would have this instrument, the so-called water assistance, which has been referred to here more than once, this could undoubtedly be a tool for convincing, and not for any forceful force of these municipal councils to join the association, which would guarantee more investment in our entire area? And there, now and recently, for example in the Lom Municipality, there are significant problems with the bringing, pressure plumbing from Dobri Dol and with many other technical issues on which there will obviously be no good movement as a result of the attitude of the Municipal Council of the municipality of Berkovitsa. However, if we would have had a water service, then the social tolerance threshold should not be reduced anymore, but we would give the water companies the opportunity to invest more in the necessary improvements of the relevant networks and systems. So on these several questions, if possible, Mr President, then, if there are other questions, of course, to be answered by the President of the Commission. It does not seem right to underestimate the water sector, including when a brief statement is made on the report, and even in the report of the Energy Commission, there was also some understatement. There I may have misheard it was said about a Regulation regulating the quality of drinking water, or something like that, and it's about the quality of water services, but it's a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u111	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. A line of speech? I won't. To speak the word has the folk representative from BSP left Bulgaria Tasco Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] By the order of record you are before Honest Vesselinoff. At least that's how it's written down, but if you give up your turn... [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is indeed the Commission's first report on energy and water regulation from the moment it is elected. What I want to remind all of you who are here in this Chamber is that when this Commission was elected, we ensured that it would work independently. We guaranteed that we would create all the conditions for her to work independently, and we managed to break those guarantees this year. As unpleasant as it may seem, what I am telling you, we have indeed promised independence, and independence is achieved by providing the necessary financial resources, not only in order to operate within the Commission's energy and water regulation building, but also to carry out all their internal state and international functions. From this point of view, we, as Parliament, are debtors to this Commission and I hope for the next budgetary period when we will discuss the procedure and we will discuss the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, to take note, because our claims to the Commission are very great, and at the same time when it comes to giving them the necessary funds, we are something of a miser. That's what I meant in terms of our commitments. What surprised me in the presentation of the report, and not in the report itself was after I stated what deficit NEK had found why, and for what reason, without any explanation, we started with the nuclear power plant "Belene" and "Tsankov Stone" which made it clear to all of us that there is no way that an investment project that is stopped in the middle, without any reason for it to hang us as a millstone of the one who was a co-investor from the Bulgarian side, and there is no way that it really does not reflect on the financial situation? But it's not the fault here, it's not the fault of the politicians who stopped the project because it was really stopped for political reasons. There is no way that such a completed investment project as a "Tsank Stone" would not hang around NEK's neck, provided that 800 million. lv. of this money must go to API, because they are API's, they are a path, it's a tunnel. I expected here in the report, which was from the KEWRC, when we were really discussing the financial situation of NEK and the measures on which it should be stabilized, to mention this at least that these assets should be transferred where they belong and not hang around NEK's neck. A few remarks that I would say are observed in the Commission's energy and water regulation activities if, of course, they do not distract them there and want to hear what I'm saying. [[Noise.]] Mr. Ivanov! I ask you very much, Mr. Lazarov, if you want to finish it, then finish it, but right now I want to be heard by the Commission about my recommendations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u113	Relax, Mr. Ermenkov. I'm making an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u114	Thank you. Sorry, Mr. Tsochev. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u115	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u116	I said, a few small remarks regarding the Commission's activities, which I want to hear from the Commission. Firstly, in my humble opinion, the Commission was rather a registrar of some nonsense or some imperfections in the laws, rather than signaling us in time what we should discuss in Parliament, purely friendly, as they say, so that we may not come to the consequences that we can then correct, and that we can have preventive and legislative measures to alleviate their work. I will not dwell on specific examples. Mr. Ivanov knows about some of them I'm talking about. So this is a recommendation that they need to take into account for subsequent periods. The second thing I would like to mention is that the Commission has somehow started working as if it started everything from it. Yes, it was renamed the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but this Commission had a history and it did not become clear what happened to the acts establishing administrative violations and the penal decrees that were issued in the period before the Commission entered into action. And the last thing I would like to mention is that the Commission has really tried to deal with the system's price problems and to a large extent balance the obligations, whether to domestic or industrial consumers, managed to do this thing - but, as well as discussing just now the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act, largely on the basis of our legislative decisions, which were far from market principles, something that is contrary to the aspirations that the Commission itself had mentioned, that we would try to liberalise the energy market completely. For this reason, I also want to ask a question that has not been reflected here. I pretty much know what the answer will be, but let's have all the colleagues here hear it. Why is it allowed, for example, in the ESO to have such large revenues that we then wonder how to take them from the ESO to bring them into the energy system instead of looking for options through price transfer solutions to regulate both transmission fee and final energy prices plus transmission and distribution to consumers? Once again, I would like to express our support to our Parliamentary Group to what was adopted at the outset for the Commission to be chosen in the way we have chosen it. You know that to a large extent the reform that has been implemented within the framework of the price balancing of the market has also been supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party.Coalition left Bulgaria, we will support this report, but once again please: the recommendations we made to the Commission to be taken into account, because it is not only a registrar and to find things, but should be a slightly more active participant in the formation of the rules of the energy game. Colleagues, I turn to us: let us not forget what promises we made when we created this Commission and in the next budgetary period we really provide the funds that are necessary for its work. Otherwise, we'll have problems. We will have problems even with their representation during the cases being conducted in the state, because so we changed the administrative law that they started to go to places to meet the plaintiff's place, which requires both costs and staff, and which, ultimately, is harassing their and other more important work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. A line to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I can't see. Georgi Nedev and Iskren Veselinov are enrolled for speech. Martin Dimitrov is now enrolled. Mr. Veselinov, I ask you: let's hear Mr. Nedev, then you. Let us hear from the Members of the Commission and you as President, in the end, summarize, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u118	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission! Admit it or not, 2015 was a year of changes in energy, and carried out without much noise and comments, consistently and irrevocably. Some have stepped on this fact, others are dissatisfied with it. But they all consider their actions to the changing and changing conditions in which they are forced to work. In order for all this to happen, I join many of the speakers before, naturally, the defining entities are three: parliament, government through the Ministry of Energy and the independent energy regulator, whose activity report we are looking at today. The report is sufficiently thorough and I will not dwell on the individual elements of it. For me, the most important advantage of the current regulator lies in the fact that it managed to preserve its independence and, in principle, stood up for its reasoned position in all its decisions. The latter are distinguished by their adequacy and principle, following the objectives of the planned changes. In my opinion, President Ivan Ivanov has a major role to play in this, which naturally stood decisively at the heart of the events and argued every decision and action of the regulator during this period. I have repeatedly had the opportunity in the committees on which I am a member to express my opinion that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission during the reporting period has been held responsible for everything that is happening in the energy and water sectors, even what is the responsibility of other entities of the changes. Working in accordance with European and Bulgarian legislation, the regulator managed to put the right conditions of its activity at this time of changes and to acquire the quality of an insurmountable principled participant in the changes. Because without the adequate action of the regulator on the establishment of a regulatory framework and without its correct decisions to regulate the activities in the energy and water sectors, the liberalisation of the energy market, the tattering of the balancing electricity market in Bulgaria and the beginning of the implementation of the new Strategy for Development and Management of Water and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014. The achieved is a fact, it cannot be denied. But trust has to be constantly worked on. The fact is that the ongoing reforms in the Bulgarian energy and the Bulgarian sector are accompanied by some weaknesses and imperfections that need to be urgently removed. For example, currently available specific deficiencies in the organisation of the free market in electricity can lead to distortions causing damage to the participants in it. Troubleshooting existing gaps is entirely within the regulatory capabilities, so no legislative changes should be expected. Enough changes in the regulation, which the regulator can safely carry out on its own. I personally expect the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to make changes to the rules on electricity trading in a very short time, ensuring that the market improves in the direction of equality of its participants. I also expect greater activity from the Commission to implement the upcoming reforms in the water sector, which consist of initiating regulatory changes ensuring the implementation of reforms. Although in the beginning I expressed the thesis that changes in Bulgarian energy are taking place in 2015, I am far from the idea of a complete job. It is clear to everyone that only the beginning and this large-scale reform, which must stabilise the energy sector, is yet to come. This conclusion also fully refers to the participation of the energy regulator in the process. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission created during the year the feeling that it was reforming. Now he has to continue his involvement in dealing with the severe problems in energy. The existence of these problems is also confirmed by the communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the European Investment Bank on the state of the energy union in 2015. In this document, the Annex concerning Bulgaria has drawn conclusions on the state of the electricity gas market, which impose the following practical actions of the regulator as a subject of energy reforms. First of all, and in 2016, the Energy and Water Regulator Commission must show that it is not a... and here I will quote what is written in this application: a weak and politically dependent energy regulator. I mean, I say the opposite: the Commission has shown that it is not a weak and politically dependent body, but in 2016 this needs to be strengthened, i.e. to strengthen the confidence created. Secondly, the regulator must continue to contribute to transparency and competition on the Bulgarian electricity market in order to improve the platform "Day forward" which has already been introduced and market development within the day as well as long-term transactions. Thus, there will be no conclusion for Bulgaria that, for example, a market within the day has not been introduced. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must continue to work on the elimination of the single buyer model and the quota principle for the distribution of producer participation in the regulated market. An important task is also the creation of a new mechanism or model to compensate for investments in the RES sector and to stimulate cogeneration of electricity and heat in accordance with the guidelines for State aid for ecology and energy. It is high time to do something about the development of the natural gas market in Bulgaria. Last but not least, indeed, in order to be correct, there is still much to be done in relation to the RES sector to put at least the start of the Strategy To conclude, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union will vote for the adoption of the Commission report for 2015, thereby expressing our positive assessment of the activity. In addition, I am really joining what some of the speakers before me have said that all the parliamentary groups must give practical support to the Commission by voting on the necessary budget for next year, naturally, when the time comes for its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u119	Thank you, dear Mr Nedev. Any lines to Mr Nedev's statement? I can't see. First, Mr. Iskren Veselinov, after him Martin Dimitrov, after him Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The statements of my colleagues before me have greatly alleviated my speech, as many of the conclusions and analyses have already been made. Indeed, 2015 - although not too much noise - was the year of the most serious reform in the Energy Sector - a sector that was generally associated with a ball of problems, with a ball of deficits, and generally a lack of solutions. I think that we have come out of the situation in which the energy is looking for the culprit and we are in the situation where the solutions are being sought as a small contribution, which is why the new composition of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is taking place. Indeed, the role of the Ministry of Energy should also be noted here, and the role of the parliament, which has not embarked on the momentum created for years, where every deficit and every problem is placed on the back of the consumer and it must pay for it, because before that these problems have already been generated. We have actually approached, I think, sufficiently responsible to the citizens of Bulgaria and to the business and managed to vote on several amendments to the Energy Act, which have finally introduced a regulatory opportunity to develop a new balanced price model, which the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has not hesitated to do and which, in the end, takes account of objective realities and allows electricity prices not to be increased for a year now. On the contrary, we're looking for reservations in the system. Of course, there could be much more to be desired. Of course, there are contracts that are yet to be re-evaluated in the field of energy, which I am sure will create additional opportunities. In fact, this was the first major challenge facing the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, namely this new price model. The second major challenge was liberalisation. I believe that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has also dealt with it at a high level. Speaking of the independence of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, we should note that there is a Parliamentary Commission monitoring its activities. We should note that the Parliamentary Commission, despite the dissatisfaction of many non-governmental organisations, has never allowed itself to interfere with decisions or exert any pressure. Our aim has always been, on the basis of constructive dialogue, to show those problems that we believe are important to fellow citizens and are at all important in regulatory and functional terms. I think the balance has never been broken in this regard. As an example, our Parliamentary Committee has taken steps to discuss in detail the problems of the sector "Topolenergetics" which is now reflected in the proposals to amend the general conditions of the heating companies. Special attention was paid to the practice of providing buffers for these companies in interim pricing, when changing the prices of natural gas. A discussion was initiated on the problems of joining customers to the network of electricity distribution companies. We also had a special meeting here because it turns out that one of the extremely serious problems facing business is this accession to energy companies. Cases were shown in which two years each, two and a half years each a certain entrepreneur is waiting for accession from a certain ERP and this is not happening. I believe that the Commission is still, in a sense, in debt here, although there is some discipline in energy companies. We have neighbouring countries where the accession period is, for example, two weeks. We really hope to go in this direction, because the racketeering of the monopoly is something that needs to be handled, and systematically. In the same direction were the discussions on the purchase of the Trafoposts, which are owned by third parties, which has been sleeping in the Energy Act for years and continues not to be implemented by the energy companies. There are proposals for a legislative initiative, respectively, for sanctions for companies that do not do so. In general, given the general improvement of the environment in the sector, I can do nothing but call on Members in this House to support this first report. The same will be done by the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u121	Any lines to Mr. Vesselinoff? I won't. There's a word for it, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The Commission's report on energy and water regulation is an occasion, firstly, for a general assessment. She can't help but be positive. I would immediately like to start by saying that the good results achieved in the first year should not calm us down, because the problems of energy are of such order that future mistakes can again reverse the cart. So my recommendation to my colleague from the KEWRC is to behave in the same independent and responsible manner from now on and to continue reform together. But the challenges, colleagues, will not be less. I would like to start with the old obligations noted in the KEWRC report, which were said not to belong there. That's where they belong, because these are NEK's old obligations: 1.3 billion "Belene," 1 billion. lv. It's a really big deal. I mean, it's a really big deal. These mistakes must be remembered and repeated so that they do not happen in the future and know that they should not be considered megalomaniac projects without impact assessment and without secured funding from here on, and they should be reasoned pragmatically and responsibly when making such commitments, because they weigh later as a millstone. There is no way that the Commission's assessment of energy and water regulation will not start with the change in NEK's deficit. The facts show the following: NEK's deficit was 586 million in 2014. lv. and that's not even the tariff deficit. This is the final value of the deficit. lv. At the beginning of this year for the first quarter the result is positive. Once again, this should not calm us down, but should mean for us only that the measures taken so far have been correct "they have been taken by a large majority in Parliament and that they must be continued. The most important thing I would like to say to the Commission as a recommendation is this: honourable Members, you are, of course, an independent body, making your own decisions, but personally I think it is important to hear the recommendations of the National Assembly. I want to start with this: it is important that you develop your control functions from here on. We continue to receive information that despite the legislative texts of the National Assembly, despite the fines that have been recently voted, not all the tez and plant plants, for example, have installed the measuring instruments. So it is important that what started as joint checks between the KEWRC and the State Financial Inspection Agency be developed over time. The notion of KEWRC should not be simple as a body that sets prices, but as an authority that controls, which sends people to check whether the provisions previously issued are implemented, whether the Bulgarian legislation is implemented. So what I wish you, realizing that the Bulgarian Parliament did not respond to your request for an increase in the budget and here the colleagues from all parties are doing the right thing and we will try next year, life and health to correct this injustice, but everything must be done, despite the shrinking budget of the KEWRC to develop its control functions. Energy enterprises should know that if they have not installed controls, which I have given you, or do not comply with other parts of the Bulgarian legislation, representatives of KEWRC and ADFI will check them and there will be sanctions. It is very important to have sanctioned enterprises for failure to comply with the Bulgarian legislation. Consider this as my first questions to you in this regard. You already have the opportunity to impose fines that the KEWRC will impose. We will be happy in the Special Committee and in the Bulgarian Parliament to find a way and form to inform us how these procedures are developed. So the most important recommendation I am making to you and hope is: you are doing well...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u123	Would you like to extend the time, Mr. Dimitrov? You have a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u124	Yes, please, Madam President, extend the time of the Reformation Block. You're doing well, but develop your control functions from now on. The biggest weakness of Bulgarian energy in recent years is that these control functions exhale. Good decisions are being made by the parliament and the Ministry of Energy and by the KEWRC, it is now important to implement. Let's bet from now on on on about controlling the implementation, which is why I insist, and I believe that we will work together each in our place from now on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u125	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Mr. Ramadan Atalay has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Today, it seems as if we are giving more assessment to the commissioners themselves than to the report that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has presented to us. By listening to colleagues, everyone who speaks from here with these superlatives, with these praises, Mr. Ivanov, not to take yourself very seriously and the next report not to be what you present to us at the moment, because this report is indeed a good assessment of your activity. Honourable Members, this report is also an assessment of the activities of the National Assembly, or an assessment of each political body in terms of exactly what Commissioner has proposed and whether these commissioners perform their duties conscientiously in the interests of society. I believe that so far, in terms of whether this Commission has regained confidence in society, that trust that was lacking at the moment is a good assessment for both themselves and the National Assembly. Indeed, political parties can now talk about the fact that trust in an institution is restored in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The public trusts and accepts the decisions of this Commission. These decisions so far, honourable Members, have always been in the public interest, somewhat to the detriment of business, but when the Commission makes independent decisions, they are not subject to one or another political power or to one or another non-governmental organisation, then trust in society is also returned to these commissioners. Colleagues, the previous decisions made by the Commission have been made so that the price of the determined energy has always remained or decreased the price of electricity. I don't know if the time comes when it is necessary to cover the cost of the cost of certain enterprises and you have to raise the price of the relevant electricity, then there will be a time apart for you to see if society still has that confidence in this Commission that you are currently building. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, fellow Members, have proposed another composition of the Commission. The philosophy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was, in addition to the Commission's budget and the composition of the Commission, to be of such size as to have control functions. Mr. Martin Dimitrov's wishes at the moment that you can control it is not true. You do not have the physical ability to control all businesses, and therefore, notice, just an hour ago the National Assembly finished part of your work.........................we adopted a bill to give in your hands the opportunity to take away some people from energy, but at the same time we have given others the opportunity to accumulate profits and it is uncertain. Dear colleagues, in this Chamber experts alone, without a budget you will not be able to do what you are appointed to do, even though you are currently receiving praises. Therefore, it will weigh on the National Assembly if we do not change the Commission's philosophy on energy and water regulation.................................................................................. When you make independent decisions, and in the interests of society, we welcome you. When you don't have the ability to control it, I told you that trust would disappear. Then all the political forces here will expect the protests that may appear in front of both Parliament and you. Because I, colleagues, will focus only on one feather in the prices that you set, Mr. Ivanov, innovations and investment processes that you set in these prices are minimal, even in some enterprises you take away their ability to develop. Sooner or later, in energy, the uninvested funds will produce a bad result for the activities of production companies. Colleagues, our assessment of the Report on what happened this year is positive and we will support it. We welcome your efforts, your abilities and qualifications to create the self-esteem of the independent body. But I'm turning on those political powers that are going to be useful for energy, to think, to build the system so that your control activities can be from the entrance to the exit, so that we can be calm when we accept your reports. A short while ago, a colleague said: "The gypsy woman has died praising us, we have now begun to boast ourselves, which is not good at all. I wish you to still be independent, stubborn, not to succumb to any organization, even more to the executive power. Keep away the Prime Minister in determining the price of any energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u127	Any lines to Mr. Atalay? I won't. Colleagues, are there any other MPs for speeches? Questions were asked to Mr. Ivanov. You have an opportunity to answer them, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank the MPs who took part in the debates; to thank for the positive assessment that was given for the Commission's energy and water regulation activities in the past year and two months. With even greater gratitude, I would like to say that the remarks, recommendations and criticisms have been very carefully heard by both myself and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We'll get to know them in detail once the transcript of today's meeting appears. I will not dwell on any recommendations or questions made, but I would like to draw attention to a few. First of all, I would point out that the water sector is in no way underestimated in the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This is also seen from the report itself. With regard to what was stated by Mr. Borislav Velikov as a recommendation, namely that the prices of the water services should be updated periodically, I would like to point out that at the moment, before the entry into force of the new regulations, prices are updated and such applications are considered when they come from the water operators. With the new regulations, which will be our starting point for the period 2017 to 2021, each water operator, together with its business plan, shall also apply for prices. In such a way, a slowdown and irregular price update will not work out, but it is already regulatoryly set until it had to come on a proposal from the water operators themselves. In relation to the new regulations, we held training seminars with the representatives of the water companies, of which they are very pleased because they have to apply the new regulations and in a certain way we control this implementation of them. With regard to the threshold of tolerance laid down, this is under the Law, and we can only comply with it. I can only point out that for two areas of Targovishte and Montana, there is a slight excess of this threshold and three are on the edge of Dobrich, Silistra and Haskovo. Perhaps in the area of water supply services should also be introduced the concept of vulnerable users of water services, which should be protected in the same way as the active participation of the energy regulator introduced this concept and measures were identified to protect energy vulnerable consumers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u130	Thank you. Regarding the need to remove the object, this is actually the only buyer in the face of NEK, which Mr. Georgi Nedev proposed should happen with a change in the Law and I hope that the Energy Act will receive its next change as early as September. This will be an important issue. We are ready in a certain way with the cost compensation model at official prices, but we expect the Report and the Road map, which must be presented by the consultant of the Ministry of Energy, this is the team of the World Bank. About our participation in the natural gas market. Mr. Nedev, yesterday I participated in the meeting, which should finalise the interconnection agreement between the Bulgarian and the Greek gas transmission operator. This will allow through the existing Interconnector The Tower.. Siddirocastro at least at the beginning to be carried out virtually and subsequently.......................................................................................... And it will be the first time that Bulgaria will be able to have another natural gas supplier other than the monopolistic at the moment. Then we can work on the Natural Gas Trading Market Project. What I'm going to finish with is about controlling the measurement facilities of heat efficiency. A question which Mr. Martin Dimitrov raised but was often discussed at meetings of the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the KEWRC, as well as of the Energy Commission. Thanks to our energetic efforts, not only ours, but also the requirements that were laid down in the Law, there are currently only six heating companies that still do not submit in real time data on the useful heat and relevant electricity produced. In fact, they only provide information on electricity produced in a combined manner, but subsequently those data received on a monthly basis in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission allow the Commission, with the respective coefficients and formulae, to calculate the quantity of high-efficiency electricity that is allowed to be redeemed. If this quantity is exceeded in the month concerned, the excess amount shall be deducted for the following month. There is a very good basis for full coverage of all the cogenerations of this process. Once again, thank you for everything in your speeches, which will contribute to the better functioning of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues who would like to take part in the debate? I can't see. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. The Commission's report on monitoring the activities of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is attached to the draft decision on the basis of which the relevant text of the Energy Act should be supplemented, as well as the operative part to be refined. Project of: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the 2015 Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Activity Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 10, para. 3 of the Energy Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission's 2015 Activity Report Please vote. They voted 118 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 3. The decision's been made. We should thank Mr. Ivan Ivanov and the members of the KEWRC for their participation in today's plenary session. Honourable Members of Parliament, points 5th, 6th and 7 of our Programme have a fixed time, respectively, for tomorrow's plenary session, as points from first to third, which is why we are now going to point 8: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF CONVENTION No 102 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY TRAY (MINIMAL STANDARDS), 1952 Importer of the Council of Ministers. We will hear the report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u133	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u134	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), 1952, No 602-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May 2016. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 25 May 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), 1952, No 602-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Ivanka Hristova, Director of the Directorate of State Affairs and International Cooperation and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ivanka Hristova. According to the reasons of the submitted Draft Law Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation was ratified by Law on 13.06.2008. To this ratification is annexed a Declaration with which the Republic of Bulgaria assumes the obligations arising from Sections II, III, V, VI, VII, VIII and X. These are the chapters related to the coverage of standards for medical care, sickness benefits, old age benefits, occupational accident benefits, family compensation, childbirth and birth compensation and survivors' compensation. We do not join Section IV, because at that time expert analyses show that we are not ready for this, that is to say, only two standards remain uncovered, one is for unemployment benefit, the other is for disability benefit. It is essentially that, by 2008, our unemployment benefits did not reach the minimum standard of the Convention on this type of benefits. In 2013, preparation was launched for ratification of Section IV of the Convention with a view to the commitments of the International Labour Organisation in 2012. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with the National Insurance Institute, collects and analyzes statistics relevant to the standard of this Section and presents them to the International Labour Organisation. The experts of the organisation shall carry out a preliminary assessment of the relevance of the standard with our national levels of this type of compensation and an assessment of the formula for their determination. According to Convention No 102, the covered risk includes the suspension of income laid down in national law due to the inability for the protected person to obtain appropriate work that is capable and ready to perform. That compensation shall be granted at least to persons having a completed period of law deemed necessary in order to prevent abuse. The risk thus outlined, the conditions for granting the compensation and its characteristics comply with the conditions for granting unemployment benefit under the Social Security Code, according to art. 54a, para. 1: The right to an unemployment benefit shall be granted to persons for whom insurance contributions have been paid or payable to the Fund (SOE) for at least 9 months prior to the termination of the insurance and who: have been registered as unemployed at the Employment Agency; have not obtained the right to a retirement pension in the Republic of Bulgaria or an old-age pension in another country or have not received a retirement pension or a reduced age under art. Art. 68a or professional pension under Art. 68a. 168; do not engage in employment for which they are subject to compulsory insurance under this Code, except for the persons referred to in art. 114a, para. 1 of the Labour Code, or the legislation of another country. Seen by the hypothesis of our national norm, the conditions for obtaining the right to unemployment benefit are: the person to be unemployed, who is confirmed by registration in the Employment Agency; was provided for a legislative period against the risk of unemployment and no other income arising directly or indirectly from employment. Registration with the Employment Agency as an unemployed person - according to art. Article 18 in conjunction with Article 18 17 of the Employment Promotion Act, fulfills the prerequisites of the Convention on which persons may be beneficiaries of unemployment benefits: any Bulgarian citizen, as well as any citizen of another Member State of the European Union, or any other State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation seeking employment, may be registered in the territorial division of the Employment Agency. In accordance with art. 18, para. 3 of the same Law, rights as persons seeking employment may also be exercised: foreigners authorised for long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria; persons granted the right to asylum; persons granted refugee status or humanitarian status; persons provided for in an international contract to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; persons who are third-country nationals who are members of a family of Bulgarian nationals or nationals of a Member State of the European Union, a country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area or of the Swiss Confederation; members of the family of foreigners authorised for long-term residence; holders of a blue card of the European Union who remain unemployed within three months or wishing to change their employer. Job seekers are registered in different groups, one of which is unemployed. Persons who are registered as unemployed shall be obliged to follow the recommendations of the labour mediator as well as the intended actions, deadlines and visit schedule. Registration of unemployed persons shall be suspended except on other grounds and in cases where: 1. do not comply with the recommendations of the labour intermediary or actions, deadlines and timetables for visits included in the action plan; 2. shall not appear at that date and time in the written invitation from the employment agency's division or within three working days of that date; 3. refuse to accept their proposed appropriate work and/or inclusion in programmes and measures for employment and training for adults under this Law, as well as in programmes and projects financed by European and other international funds. The concept of appropriate work is clarified in § 1, item 1. 4 of the Employment Promotion Act and is based on the interpretation of the concept given by the Social Security Experts Committee to the Council of Europe. The second requirement under our national legislation that the person be insured for a certain period against the risk of unemployment is in line with the application of the Convention to at least ensure that persons having a completed period of law deemed necessary for the prevention of abuse. The third requirement of our national norm is a lack of income related to the work of the European Union is in line with the condition of the Convention on the Stopping of Incomes, which makes it impossible for the protected person to obtain an appropriate job that is capable and ready to perform. Article 65 (1) of the Convention provides that, in the case of periodic payments, the amount of compensation increased by the amount of any family aid payable for the duration of the case covered should be such that, in respect of the period in question, for the typical (standard) beneficiary referred to in the table annexed to this Section, at least the percentage of the total amount of the previous benefit of the beneficiary or of the person providing support for the family and the amount of any family benefit payable to the protected person with the same family obligations as the typical (standard) beneficiary. According to the attached table in the Convention, the minimum unemployment rate shall be 45 per cent of the previous income calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Convention. The commitment under this Section of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation would not lead to additional expenditure on the budget, as it is evident from the above and at the current levels of benefits, and therefore the minimum standard of insurance contributions would be covered. For the same reason, accession to this part will not require changes in our internal legislation. The Commission received opinions from the Confederation of Labour Both opinions were positive, with the position that Bulgaria covers at the edge the minimum standard of Section IV of the Convention, which does not mean that the adequacy of the amount of minimum unemployment benefit in Bulgaria is high to ensure a decent existence of people left unemployed. In the discussion the MPs expressed the opinion that the adoption of Section IV of Convention No 102 is a good step of the government towards more ambitious measures to improve the quality of the insurance protection of Bulgarian workers and employees. But they expressed concerns about the fact that the people who are taking the minimum unemployment allowance in Bulgaria have increased in the last year. Each fourth of the registered unemployed takes the minimum compensation of 154 BGN. This means that it is provided on the minimum wage and takes 7.20 leva. a day. The compensation hasn't changed in the last five years. The amount remains the same for 2016. Last year the share of people receiving minimal compensation was 23% and 12% took between 150 and 200 BGN. monthly. Rough readings show that against £7.20. A day and 154 leva. A month gets 36.67 per cent of the minimum wage. This means that, with regard to national minimum standards, there is still much to be done so as to fully approach the minimum standards of Section IV of the Convention. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote held with results: 11 votes for the Council, without abstention of the Law on the ratification of the Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), 1952, No 602-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u135	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. From the importers? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. People's representative Dragomir Stoynev come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we from BSP left Bulgaria will support the ratification of this fundamental international act in the field of social security, such as Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards). We believe that this Convention can be called a flagship of all conventions of the International Labour Organisation and establishes minimum standards and norms for all nine social security directions. We will support this Convention because we live in the 21st century and we have claims to be a civilised and social state of the European Union, and it is unacceptable that we do not fully join such an important document. Dr. Ademov stressed in his report that it was this Convention that was adopted in 2008, June, during the three coalitions. We have made commitments in Sections II, III, V, VI, VII, VIII and X, and only we have not made a commitment concerning unemployment benefit and disability benefit. At that time, in 2008, unemployment benefit levels were considered not to reach the minimum standard of the Convention on this type of compensation. The great challenge is now, all the more so, that in 2012, when this analysis began, we are almost given a document that says that we meet these requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, in Bulgaria the minimum daily amount of unemployment allowance is BGN 7.20, which is also set with the 2016 budget. As Dr. Ademov's report said, it has not changed the last five years and this makes the average compensation, I quote from the report: every fourth receives a minimum compensation of BGN 154. Here the big question is, ladies and gentlemen, whether this compensation of 154 BGN. is it an adequate fact because it's the CST that says we're on edge? So we have to think about a specific increase because 154 BGN. per month, agree, it really is not a dignified compensation that allows people who have lost their right to work to live a decent life. Okay, I understand that GERB is not like that, according to them 154 BGN. It's enough to live a decent life. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova to come out and explain exactly how people can live with one such compensation, but the truth is that here we should all just think And in order to be stimulated to provide them, they must also be compensated accordingly when that risk arises. Therefore, I say again, we support the ratification of the Convention, of course, that we are going to vote for. But somehow, when we look at the statistics, 154 BGN. for a month this is 36.67% of the minimum wage, and for last year it is approximately 40% of the minimum wage. Not enough, ladies and gentlemen! It is good that we ratify this particular Convention in this Section to think from next year about a higher average increase I am talking about the minimum, which is BGN 7.20. That is why we will propose: as there is an upper limit, why there is no lower limit and it should be defined, for example I say, like 60% of the minimum wage, which means, ladies and gentlemen, at least 12 BGN. per day, or 252 leva. a month. Agree to £252. is much better than BGN 154, but it depends on our will and whether we are really ready to meet these criteria, because the CST says that we are on the edge. I'm not going into the Ministry's analysis that's been drawn up. I believe in the expertise of people who work, and I believe in social partners. I see that already in the new leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy this may be one of the first challenges and in the face of Mrs. Denitsa Tsacheva to think about next year to really have an increase in this compensation. It is quite normal that when people are provided and when that risk occurs, they have at least one minimum decent existence. In our opinion, maybe 252 leva. is much better than the present BGN 154. This does not mean that everyone who has fallen into this risk gets it, but according to Dr. Ademov's report, a quarter of the unemployed receive this compensation. I very much hope that, as we all ratify this Convention together today in this Section, we will be forced to review this minimum compensation for the next 2017 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Stoinev, I take the floor for a reply because you challenged me in your speech regarding the minimum amount of daily compensation of BGN 7.20. which is paid in case of unemployment. I would like to say that the amount of unemployment benefit, in order not to mislead the audience, is 60% of the average monthly remuneration on which insurance contributions are paid 24 months back before the date of exemption. You're talking about this, the minimum, of BGN 7.20. a day. It is paid in two cases: firstly, on mutual dismissal and the second case is on disciplinary dismissal from work. So these are some minimum standards below which it cannot fall and cannot be a base for people who are unemployed. Moreover, an important argument, which I must add, is not to receive a longer period of compensation, but to have the employment bureaus find work for them. That is, to re-enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Any other lines? I won't. Would you like to use the back? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, I agree with you, but here it is that the average daily amount for unemployment benefit is BGN 7.20. and on the report each fourth of those registered receive a minimum compensation of 154 BGN. Every fourth one! Here is the question: Are we, indeed, the MPs, ready to raise this compensation in order to truly be about a decent existence, and understand your thesis as well? That doesn't mean we raise him too much so that people don't look for jobs. Yeah, they should keep looking for jobs and I'm about to. Really, you have to! But if you want, you can make it 50 leva. Then it'll be outrageous. The point is, like the unions say, we're on edge. From now on, by ratifying this Convention, we must think of a higher compensation so that the people of labour, when they fall into this risk, live one, two, three, four months of dignity until they find a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u142	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, our parliamentary group will support the submitted Draft Law on the ratification of Convention 102 of the International Labour Organisation. My fellow Members, I would like to make some clarification on what we have just heard in the speeches and the lines. When it comes to determining the amount of unemployment benefit under the Bulgarian legislation, the amount of unemployment benefit is defined as the average daily monetary unemployment benefit is 60 percent of the average daily wage or the average daily insurance. That's the amount of compensation. As regards the minimum amount of compensation, it is determined each year by the budget of state social security, which means that when we discuss and adopt the Law on the budget of state social security, everyone can make their proposals and if the National Assembly has the will, this text can be supported. Otherwise, the idea is now the National Assembly and the State of Bulgaria, as a member of the International Labour Organisation, to do everything possible to introduce this Section IV of the International Labour Organisation Convention, according to which minimum standards are laid down according to that of risk insurance. Otherwise, the large issue related to the amount of minimum unemployment benefit, with the nine-month insurance period in the last fifteen months, and as regards the amount of compensation that Mrs. Angelova said 24 months ago from the termination of the income, this is a topic of another conversation and in the context of the discussion of the budget of state social security and the State Budget Act. Believe me, the International Labour Organisation has sufficiently serious experts who, within the framework of periodic monitoring reports, observe the implementation of these standards. Once we have agreed to ratify this Convention, this Section IV means that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the National Statistical Institute based on the Methodicals of the International Labour Organisation, has concluded that Bulgaria covers this standard. Therefore, it was no coincidence in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy that all MPs supported the proposed Draft. I also call on the plenary to support the proposed Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment and Supplement to Convention 102 of the International Labour Organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u143	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Do you have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I am closing the debates and putting to the vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security........................................................................................... The bill is No 602-02-18 and was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May 2016 to the National Assembly. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. For the procedure Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be adopted at second reading in today's sitting, as it was adopted by consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u145	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Hasan Ademov. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to report the bill to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u146	THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), 1952 (DV, No. 54, 2008) It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The declaration to Article shall be amended as follows: "Bulgaria" states that it assumes the obligations arising from Sections II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and X in relation to art. 2 point (a) (ii) of the Convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u147	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. You have the floor to speak. I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the second vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), 1952, No 602-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 May 2016. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously and on a second vote, and became a law. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO PROPOSAL TO THE PRESENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR REPRESENTATION WITH ORDE SV. SV. KIRYL AND METHODION Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs, on 11 May 2016. The opinion of the Health Committee will introduce us to the People's Representative Kiril Dobrev. You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on a draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of St. St. First degree Cyril and Methodius, No 654-02-36, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11 May 2016. At its regular meeting held on 19 May 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed a draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for awards with the Order of St. St. First degree Cyril and Methodius, No 654-02-36, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11.05.2016. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Adam Persenski, Chairman of the Department of Medical Sciences at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Academician Bogdan Petrunov, representatives of state-of-the-art organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. In accordance with art. 11, para. Art. 1 and 2 in conjunction with art. 5, para. 1 and para. 3, p. 2 of the Orders and Medals Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria awards with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius. First degree Bulgarian citizens who have a significant contribution to the development of culture, art, education and science, on a proposal adopted by a decision of the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the respective ministers, from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the higher schools, from the Bulgarian Red Cross, from creative unions, associations and other non-profit organizations, as well as from the Committees of Citizens. The National Assembly received a report-proposal from the Rector of the Medical University of Plovdiv for awards with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius "First Degree of Academician Art.-Kor." Prof. Dr. Nikolai Ivanov Popov, D.Sc. for its great merit to the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of dental medicine. Proposals for the award of the Academy of Sciences Popov with high state awards were addressed to the President and to the Minister of Health on behalf of: Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Academic Management and Rector of the Medical University Prof. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov (Bulgarian Association of Oral Implantology), Association of Bulgarian Dentists, Head of MMA, Major General, Art.-kor. Prof. Dr. Nikolai Petrov, PhD, and by an initiative committee. Academic Bogdan Petrunov acquainted the members of the committee with the activities of the academician Nikolay Ivanov Popov in the field of dental medicine. Academic Nikolai Popov is a prominent scientist in the field of dental medicine. He is the author of more than 130 publications in Bulgaria and abroad and 14 textbooks, he is the founder of dental implantology in Bulgaria, with the help of him a new, modern specialty in dental medicine is formed in dental implantology. Academic Popov is the creator of original dental methods, as well as tools, instruments and tools for dental practice. It was emphasized that acad. Popov has trained hundreds of dentists in the field of dental prosthesis and implantology. During the discussion, the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Adam Persenski, expressed support for the proposed draft decision. The Vice-President of the Bulgarian Dental Union, Dr. Svetoslav Gachev, pointed out that Akad. Popov has been an honorary member of the word organization since 2003 and highlighted his contribution to the formation of the new specialty of dental implantology. Members of the Health Commission have united their positions and have expressed support for the proposed draft decision. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly a draft proposal for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order. St. First degree Cyril and Methodius, No 654-02-36, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 11.05.2016. Chairman of the Committee on Health: Dr. Daniela Daritkova
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u149	Do you have the solution project, Mr. Dobrev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u151	I ask you to present it to the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u152	Project! DECISION for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius. First degree. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 2 in relation to Art. 5, para. 1 and para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on Orders and Medals of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Offers the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to award art.-cor. Prof. Dr. Nikolay Ivanov Popov, D.Sc., Ordered by Sv. St. First degree Cyril and Methodius, for his great merit to the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of dental medicine. Importers: Dr. Daniela Daritkova and Group of Members of the National Assembly
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u153	Thank you. The first reason is art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the presented draft decision by the MP Kiril Dobrev. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The draft decision has been adopted unanimously. It's 14.01. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-08.u154	Tomorrow we continue with item 5th of the agenda: Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement, Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. I'm adjourning the plenary session. The next plenary session is tomorrow, 9 June 2016, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
