ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable MPs, with a deep earthquake, we welcomed the news of the barbaric terrorist attack in Nice on the day of France's national holiday, where dozens of innocent citizens were killed. This is yet another rude and unacceptable violence incompatible with the values of the modern world. At this difficult time, we express our solidarity for the friendly French people, we mourn the victims and we empathize with the grief of their families and relatives. Today, we once again strongly condemn every form of terrorism and declare our determination to fight uncompromisingly all acts of violence against innocent citizens. We are sure that the world's democratic community will be increasingly united in dealing with the greatest threat to the modern world. Let us bow our heads and with a moment of silence honor the memory of those who died in the tragedy. [[All rise for one minute's silence.]] May they rest in peace! We shall begin the meeting with the point laid down as the first one for today, namely: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PORTRAIT OF CANDIDATES FOR THE COMMISSION'S PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL SUPERVISION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION'S BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS well as THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, we will be introduced by its President, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed rules of procedure for holding a public procedure under art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Financial Supervision Commission. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure is necessary in relation to the election of a new President of the Financial Supervision Commission with a view to the expiry of the current President's term of office. 5, para. 1 in relation to art. 6, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly must elect a Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance, with 9 votes for...... 3 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and submitting their documents. 1. A proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 5 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the Model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for higher legal or economic education; (f) evidence of criminality; (g) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good professional reputation, professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service experience in the field of law, economy or finance for the last 10 years. II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 5 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Applicants shall be submitted in alphabetical order to their own names by the importers of the proposals within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates shall present their concept of the Financial Supervision Commission's activity within 20 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair in alphabetical order of their own names within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of candidates in alphabetical order of their own names and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. V. Election of President of the Financial Supervision Commission by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex 1 to the Decision Annex 2 to the Decision Annex 3 to the Decision
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. To speak the word has the popular representative Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at its meeting decided not to support the proposed procedural rules and the procedure for electing the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission for the following reasons: First, this procedure was supposed to be initiated by law about three months ago. We have no clear answer why in these three months this procedure has not been opened, all the more so that the new team would have been able to prepare both the teams and the rules and everything to conduct the review of the assets of insurance and pension companies, as well as the stress tests provided for them. Secondly, what is not said, but we have information that, until the last moment, the decision has been a decision by the majority, I mean, I do not claim the credibility of what I say, but the facts also indicate that the decision was that this composition of the Commission to carry out the stress tests and the review of the assets, and then to make a choice of a new composition of the Commission because most of the mandates expired, except for the President and two of the alternates. Thirdly, what does it require now, two weeks before the parliamentary session is completed, this haste? A haste in which let me say that the usual deadlines are being violated. This is the purely formal side of the issue, because of which the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this procedure for five days, instead of the usual 14 for proposals, from then on all other deadlines have been cut. This does not correspond to the responsibility we should have in choosing this extremely important body, but even more important, given what lies ahead in the sector and even more important, given the closing procedure in the banking financial sector. We don't understand this haste. Let me say that if this haste has been triggered by a letter from the European Commission that carried a griff "Confidentially" and was addressed to the prime minister, to the Financial Supervision Commission, and appeared on the pages of a daily, how confidential was it, first? Secondly, there is nothing in this letter that makes us hurry. This letter states that the Commission is delaying the procedure and selection of evaluators and that it is taking opaque decisions. If this were true, this is self-incrimination of the Commission itself, of the European pension and insurance regulator EIOPA and of the European Securities Regulator ESMA, because these organisations have representatives in the styling committee that performs all these activities. Let me tell colleagues who are not material experts that, unlike the review of the assets of the banking financial sector, where all this is done by BNB, in this sector there is a committee in which there are participants: 1. from the Ministry of Finance; 2. by BNB; 3. of the EIOPA in question; 4. of the ESMA in question; 5.The Financial Supervision Commission. All these people signed under all the decisions. There are protocols for this. Where's the vice? Where's the vice that makes us hurry?! In the field. Opacity with signed protocols, with decisions taken by a full majority of the styling committee. I ask: where is the vice? From this point of view, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Parliamentary Group will not support this procedure. It does not contribute to the competent and responsible election of the President, firstly. Secondly, it will bring further turmoil to the Commission itself and to the very work it is about to take. Thirdly, the question remains open to the ruling majority and GERB, why was this not done for three months, for what reasons? Now we're in a hurry?! You may be in a hurry, but without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the national representative Rumen Gechev. You have the floor, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria I am empowered to state the following. The adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions of the offer and the selection of candidates for bodies by the National Assembly shall apply art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The rules are a regulation, therefore the time limits laid down by it are regulatoryly established and their compliance is absolutely mandatory in view of the lawful conduct of the electoral procedure. All decisions of the National Assembly, including decisions of organisational, technical and procedural nature, shall not conflict with promulgations and shall enter into force a regulatory act such as the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Principles in the conduct of the electoral procedure. Law and publicity. In accordance with art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the choice of bodies, in whole or in part, shall take place under the legislation in force and following a public procedure. The National Assembly shall adopt separate procedural rules for the selection of the relevant body in strict compliance with all regulatory requirements both on the special requirements for the position concerned and on each stage of the selection procedure under those Rules. Honourable Members, pursuant to Order No 1 of 19 January 2016 in Constitutional Case No 5/2015, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria has accepted that, I quote, the decision to choose is an individual legal act. Until the adoption of that act, a procedure shall be followed, which shall take place under the condition and procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. These rules constitute the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. These rules reflect the National Assembly's view of the appropriateness and operationality and the provision of organisational and technical conditions in order to reach the choice to be made in accordance with the established competences of the Constitution. Their consistency and their content shall be determined by the National Assembly itself as appropriate and in accordance with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I shall conclude the quote. The rules of procedure shall reflect the specific requirements of the special laws concerning election office and shall comply with art. 89 of the Rules of Procedure will thus ensure compliance with the principle of legality, insofar as those Rules, concerning the electoral procedure, include a requirement to provide information to the public about applications made and the possibility of interested parties to participate in the procedure. Only the lawful and strict application of the Rules will ensure and respect the principle of publicity. The meaning of the 14-day deadline for publishing the proposals for selection and the documents of the candidates is to give publicity to the applications and the opportunity to make questions and express opinions by third parties Compliance with the 14-day deadline, instead of its illegal reduction, allows for a longer and fuller public discussion, more opinions, questions to candidates and so on, with a view to choosing the most suitable candidate for the maximum public participation. The period of public consultation under art. 89, colleagues, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is similar to the prescribed period for public consultation in art. 26, para. 2 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the What are the violations of production rules? Failure to comply with a regulatory act by the authority whose activity it regulates is not merely a bad practice or a procedural infringement, but the issuing of an unlawful act to the legislature itself and, in particular, in the event of a material breach of production rules. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89 of the Rules also specify the time limits for the stage conduct of the electoral procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, for publishing the proposals for the selection of candidates, I quote the Staff Regulations not later than 14 days before the hearing. This is art. 89, para. 2. For submission of opinions and questions to candidates from non-profit legal entities not later than 3 days prior to the hearing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 89, para. 3. For the presentation of the report of the respective Permanent Committee of the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the National Assembly meeting. The Rules do not provide for a provision excluding the application of those deadlines or their reduction, in particular circumstances. Moreover, the application of different deadlines can only be done when the legislator has provided for exceptions in certain hypotheses which must be regulated at the legal level. Such hypotheses are not provided for in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly or in other laws. The content of the procedural rules should ensure, I quote, that speed and efficiency are achieved, determine what the elements of the procedure will be, how they will be distributed, what their content and relevance will be, including compliance with the requirements of openness and clarity, the order in which agreement is reached. This is the order of Constitutional Court No 1 of 19 January 2016 in Constitutional Case No 5. Furthermore, the procedure of choice ends with a decision of the National Assembly to elect the President of the C.F.R. I quote: It is this act that is subject to the control of constitutionality within the meaning of art. 149, para. 2 of the Constitution, where it determines that, apart from the constitutionality of the laws, the Constitutional Court shall rule on a request to establish unconstitutionality and other acts of the National Assembly. Constitutional control shall be subject to acts, decisions of choice under art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution and not always the decisions of an organizational and technical nature which the National Assembly and its bodies adopt to establish the rules of procedure for the phase of discussion and preparation of the legal act of choice. The decision to elect a President of the C.F.R. has been adopted under the Rules of Procedure, the content of which is contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, will be vitiated due to the alleged violation of the production rules and there will be grounds for referral of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria with a request to declare its unconstitution. Dear colleagues, it has become the practice of the government not to comply with the Constitution, laws and deadlines. We've had more than six months delay for the CDC. Honourable Members, for more than two years the mandate of the NSI has expired. I don't know when you're planning on proceeding, maybe around New Year's Eve? So you broke the law. We, honourable Members, are currently not making any personnel comments, no assessments. We respect the principles of democracy and accept that since you have a majority, you are entitled to propose the President of the C.F.R., but, honourable Members, above us is the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the laws. BSP left Bulgaria wants nothing more than to strictly respect the Constitution, the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules that we have adopted, and since you want to violate the Rules and the Constitution, we strongly oppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u7	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the attempt to neglect the adoption of these procedural rules and not to have a majority statement, I would like to share my point of view. It seems to me that, as a National Assembly, we must be consistent in choosing such important regulatory institutions. A few weeks ago, we completed the selection procedure of the Commission for Protection of Competition. At that time, the pillars of the Strategies came out here, out of this tribune. Once we stopped the procedure, because, you see, there was a candidate and there was no time, we changed the rules, we increased the deadline for proposals to 21 days, which was not bad, we also gave the non-governmental sector the opportunity to make proposals with the arguments that more transparency and publicity were needed when choosing members of this type of important regulatory authorities. That's good. But what's happening right now? At the moment back, we're reducing the time limit. But when it comes to a deliberate choice, when it comes to choosing one of our own, of course, time limits, principles have no meaning for you. That's why I want to make a few things clear today. Today, we are going to vote on rules which will vitiate the procedure for the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Today, we will vote on rules that will make it clear that this is a pre-emptive vote for the future election for President of the Financial Supervision Commission. When journalists ask me the question: Will you make proposals, I tell them that this is a mockery of the National Assembly? How can you make a proposal when today, by voting the rules, five days start running, of which Saturday and Sunday are the first two? Whatever documents you need to get the candidate and make calls, you understand that it is simply impossible to deal with these deadlines. But why do I think all this is being done? That's the big question. Because PP GERB wants to escape its responsibility for the previous work of the Financial Supervision Commission. I would like to remind you that the current President of the Commission Mr. Mavrodiev is one of the founders, of the founders of the Political Party GERB, one of the leading members of the political team of this party. Crushing the debate, crushing the deadlines, you are trying to escape the conversation about the outcome of the Financial Supervision Commission's activities, and it is very clear: crushed capital market, depreciated Bulgarian financial exchange. And you know that the capital market is one of the sources of financing for the business. From there, this directly prevents growth stimulation in the country. From this conversation you are running now and showing that you are not learning from your mistakes, because the way you chose Mr. Mavrodiev, you are trying to choose your man again. What is more worrying is that we are torpedoing the possibility that the Financial Supervision Commission is indeed an independent body. I would like to remind you that your government has tried several times to put its hand on some of the eight billion leva that are located in pension funds. Well, now you're gonna make it. By choosing the Deputy Minister of Finance, consider that you will also subdue this sector and you will be able to put your hand on these funds. And that's essentially what we're talking about right now with this choice. We removed the opportunity to make a public, transparent procedure, to give enough time to everyone who wants to meet the candidates, to have the opportunity to ask questions, to check their qualities and ultimately take a step towards increasing the trust of the Bulgarian National Assembly. I guess you don't need that. You need regulatory authorities, institutions to be subordinate and managed by phone through you. Don't expect us to share that responsibility. I hope this time I will not hear again that for the current work and state of the capital market in Bulgaria and for the activities of the FSC is guilty BSP or Oresharski, because that is all you can bring out right now. The whole work of this Commission is a result of your appointments, from your staff that you have been offering at the moment. You want for five days to elect a chairman of the body that must control the entire sector outside the banking business in Bulgaria. The whole sector! Let's pick him in five days! Right now! I think this is shameful for the Bulgarian National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u10	An extension of time, just in case. Mr. Boychev, you have done a good analysis of how they are in a hurry, why they are in a hurry and how this is one of the ways opaque to hire our person. But you may have missed another point in your speech, which has been quite relevant since yesterday. This is the moment when the Prime Minister himself admitted to you that he would make changes to the government, and after losing the elections at all, he would make preliminary... [[(Lowered noise and lines from GERB: This is not a replica!]] It's a line, guys! Have a little patience. That he's going to make early elections. Yes, perhaps GERB feels that their political time is running out and that is why they are in a hurry. Please think very carefully about whether you missed this in your speech. The political time of GERB and the haste to master important control bodies in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u11	Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to say what you missed in connection with the procedural rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u12	Unfortunately, you're right, Mr. Ermenkov. It is normal, falling out of power, to have an effort to provide the main members of the political party's governance. Unfortunately, the Financial Supervision Commission is viewed as one port for a few years' term of office, but, nevertheless, I think what leads here is another. When you need to analyze the actions of GERB, always be guided by the money. As they say, follow the money. We are talking about billions of assets that this regulator has a responsibility to manage. It's their ambition. And what they certainly want to achieve is to have an independent supervision and regulator to work in the country, outside the instructions they will receive from the Prime Minister and from the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u13	Thank you. For the next speech, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I listened very carefully to the speeches, lines and rejoinders of colleagues from the opposition. They basically formalized their statements only on procedural rules, articles, internal rules, Constitution and so on. However, the much more important issue is the capital market in itself, and this is one of the reasons why we insist that the choice of a new composition of the Financial Supervision Commission be carried out as quickly as possible. You know that the deadline for this choice has expired. If we do not complete this procedure by the end of July, it will probably last several more months, because the National Assembly, for better or worse, in August rests. That is, our criticism of Mr. Boychev that the Financial Supervision Commission is not doing its job well and the capital market in Bulgaria is not there, it is slightly contradicting the first part of his speech about not being in a hurry. You are talking about the difference between seven and five days, whether it is seven or five days, this election of the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission should have taken place a few months ago and you should be prepared for this. Not only that, but the President must be elected as quickly as possible, because the two Vice-Presidents, you know that they are also with an expired mandate and this is not the fault of the National Assembly, but the President's fault, because the President of the Financial Supervision Commission offers the National Assembly a choice of Vice-Presidents. Mr. Angel Jalazov, who is in charge of pension funds and pension supervision, has expired a term of two years, and for one year we have been acting as Investment Supervision. If we manage by the end of the month to elect a Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, in early September, he will be able to offer us Vice-Presidents who, you know, legally have autonomy that are at least as important as the President. Why do you have to hurry? We need to hurry, because as you said, the capital market is extremely important for the development of the economy, which is extremely important for us to have higher economic growth than we have at the moment. By putting off a few months, the only thing we're going to achieve is slowing down this process of restoring the capital market. Why do I say that on the capital market? I'll give you just a few details. In 2007, the turnover of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange was 8 billion. Three hundred and thirty-one million. BGN, in 2015 the turnover was 410 million. lv. That's 20 times the difference. Twenty times difference, guys! In 2007 the capitalization of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange as a percentage of gross domestic product was about 50% - 51.29%. For 2015, it is 10.19%, currently below 8%. Why is this data important, and why am I saying it? According to the World Bank's 2013 data, the growth in market capitalization compared to gross domestic product by every 10% results in an increase of approximately 2,500 euros in gross domestic product per capita. Currently, the capitalization of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, as I have already said, is below 8%, and in different European countries it is between 60 and 100%. In the US and Britain is 120% of gross domestic product. Even the Romanian Stock Exchange has a capitalization of almost twice as much as the capitalization of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, compared to the country's gross domestic product. On the other hand, since the financial crisis in 2007, world markets have recovered. They reached index values before the crisis. SOFIX 2008 dropped 85% of its peak and is currently on three quarters of its peak, i.e. the Bulgarian capital market has not recovered. You know that without a capital market, we cannot have high economic growth. You know that the government is trying to stimulate the capital market, including with various programmes to finance the Bulgarian enterprises to go to the capital market through the Operational Programme "Competitiveness." The first scheme has already started August 15th is its deadline, in October November we hope to succeed with European funds to support the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the Bulgarian Depository and the Bulgarian companies to raise capital through the Exchange. So the subject is far more important than minor abuses for procedural rules, for seven days, for five days, whether we will have time, Saturday or Sunday are the first two days, or not, to neglect all these facts and to postpone the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission for the end of September. GERB Parliamentary Group and I hope other groups in the National Assembly will vote for the rules of procedure because we see no problem in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The first line is the People's Representative Yordan Tsonev, after him the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, and the third line is the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I am making a reply, not to question your competence and your speech, because I have respect for you, but as a matter of fact before my fellow Members. The turnover of the capital market does not have much connection with the regulator, but the purity of this turnover has a very high link. Compliance with the rules of the capital market has a very strong link. In this regard, Mr. Dobrev, I also turn to my colleagues, it is an exceptional merit of this composition of the Financial Supervision Commission and of this Chairman's efforts to clear the capital market from capital manipulations, from misuse of information and from a number of other negative phenomena that had become a permanent practice on the Bulgarian capital market. A witness to this is the dozens of files brought to the prosecution on this topic, namely abuse, abuse of the state, harming minority owners and so on. So the capital market is important. It must really raise turnover, but it depends on the economy, depends on a number of other factors. Of course, it's up to the regulator. But the regulator mostly depends on the purity of the operations there, compliance with the rules, and right here Mavrodiev is not reproaching and you all know it. The reason for this choice to be delayed for three months lies also in this in its efforts to clear the market from market manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Dobrev, I will develop what my colleague Yordan Tsonev started in order to make it clear to the MPs how capital market, speculation and manipulation is made. Perhaps few people are known to a fact that bloomed in 2012 as a signal from the Financial Supervision Commission to the State Agency "National Security." The two billion turnovers you are talking about actually represent a huge manipulation in the energy sector. A company, honourable colleagues, just registered a patent to build, notice the wind parks on the high mountains, which are still missing to this day. This patent was registered at a value of 30........................................................................................................ lv. Suddenly, after a dubious assessment, this patent was worth 500 million. BGN, and only two months later, shares of the stock exchange started to be issued at 2.5 billion. lv. Here, that's capital! After the State Agency for Financial Supervision was approached, suddenly the turnover dropped sharply and those shares were sharply depreciated. So your example was extremely inadequate from this point of view, because indeed in this direction we must note, however, that the Financial Supervision Commission has indeed made serious efforts in this period to clear the capital markets, for a reality of these turnovers and, most importantly, for the non-manipulation of this market, which is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. The third line is the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, first let me remind you that this is about your President after all. You have had all the time you have been provided with, under the Constitution, under the laws and regulations of the National Assembly, to initiate this procedure. Now there's a vacation, are we formalizing?! In general, from here on out of this tribune to talk about formalisation, Constitution and Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which has the power of law in one sentence, is absurd. That's what this Constitution is about, that's why it's these Rules to formalize. Therefore, these deadlines are given, and if the National Assembly does not comply with the Constitution and its own rules, what do we want for the other institutions in the state, which should protect and defend precisely the Constitution and the laws of the country? Yeah, he's on vacation, he's on vacation, and why didn't you start the procedure early? We are not questioning your right! You've got it, as they say, you've got the knife, you've got the bread right now, you've started it. Please don't use the word "formization." Formalisation is not equal to law, but the law requires it and we must abide by it. Nothing more, nothing less! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Dobrev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u22	Dear Mr. Tsonev, I will tell you what the relationship between turnover and the Financial Supervision Commission is. It is direct and can be described in just one word trust! I'll give you an example of whether or not there was trust. 2007 - 2008, true, before the crisis, there are new issues on the stock exchange: 2007. .. 39; 2008.................................................................. '41. In 2015, emissions are three, 2014 emissions are two. This is because of the lack of confidence in the Financial Supervision Committee! I don't question the qualities of Mr. Stoyan Mavrodiev, I didn't criticize him in his work, I'm not doing it right now. You are right that one of the most important tasks of the regulator is to monitor market manipulation in the country, so do not understand this as criticism. I don't know why you're trying to protect Mr. Mavrodiev, as long as no one stops any of the groups in the next five days after we accept the proposals, if he likes Mr. Stoyan Mavrodiev, to suggest it. It can again be proposed as President of the Commission, so do not misunderstand me. Here we are talking about problems in the capital market, which we must try to solve! Regarding Mr. Bayraktarov's reply to the 2 billion patent in question. BGN, as I recall, the case was from 2010. There is no such turnover of 2 billion. BGN, Mr. Bayraktarov, because for the whole year 2010 the turnover is 680 million. There's no way that the entire year's turnover is 680 million, and of that, 2 billion is just one issue. There was an attempt to register a patent at increased prices and the Financial Supervision Commission did its job. Regarding Mr. Filipov's line. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Philip Popov, I apologize. I'll buy you a shirt. [[Laughter, excitement.]] With regard to your line, on the one hand, you do not agree with the rules, on the other hand, you do not like Mr. Mavrodiev. There's a situation where you both want a shift, and you don't want a shift now. This is about formalization. Otherwise, I support you in the fact that the rules of the National Assembly must be respected and especially the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The debate went to capital markets, pension funds, insurance companies. I propose that we return to the subject today, and it is a very simple adoption of Rules for the election of the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission. The term of office of the current President of the Financial Supervision Commission expired on 18 June 2016. The National Assembly under Law had to elect a new President of the Commission by 18 May. And now that this is happening, very strangely everyone is against at least those who have spoken so far. I'm asking myself why they're against these rules. The rules are as were the rules for all the other regulatory authorities that we here in this National Assembly have chosen. Why this fierce resistance to the rules?! Well, it's clear the resistance isn't against them, but it's against the initiation of a procedure that could lead to a change. I don't see any other reason. It is very wonderful for me that the speakers on the left side say that if you see the deadlines proposed in the procedure will not be enough for them to be able to offer their own candidate or get acquainted with the qualities of the proposed candidates. I don't want to remind you how in this room in one morning you chose the head of the DANS! With what rules and how long have you chosen the head of the National Health Insurance Fund! [[Single applause and shouts "Bravo" by GERB.]] He repays and is responsible for over 3.5 billion. BGN, and here you are talking, see that you cannot work Saturday and Sunday, even more so, Monday and Tuesday. Maybe the unions forbid it?! [[Laughter, excitement.]] But let's get back to the rules. The rules are absolutely legal. If the National Assembly adopts them by decision, as it is, they become equal to law. This means that any attempts to make these Rules unconstitutional are simply an attempt here to explain to us an inexplicable position on the left half, that they are against us at all following the Law and choosing the chairman of the C.F.R. I will not comment on the statement in this direction. Colleagues, I ask you, all of you who still want the National Assembly not to give a signal today: I do not care about the Law. We will not elect a President, even though his term has expired, even though two mandates of the Commission's alternate vice-presidents have expired. We decide against the Law, we decide against the Rules of Procedure! Therefore, please: vote for the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. First line.. People's representative Petar Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, perhaps you made an honest mistake in the language by saying that these are procedural rules for change? They are rules of procedure for a choice that is also evident from their title. The change rules were when six years ago you changed the law to replace me. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u27	Mr. Boychev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova! I'm making a line because it's the law we're interested in, and we want it to be respected. You, as Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance in the Bulgarian National Assembly, have a direct responsibility to meet the deadlines in the Law! The responsibility for this procedure to be carried out now, the responsibility for this procedure to be crushed in the most imprudent way, is entirely yours as Chairman of the Financial Commission. But I went out for something else. Mrs. Stoyanova, I would still like to hear your assessment of the previous work of the Financial Supervision Commission and its Chairman Mr. Mavrodiev, of your associate! We do not want it to remain in office, but on the contrary, we wanted the Law to be respected and there to be a change in the Financial Supervision Commission. However, I would like to hear your assessment of your former associate Mr. Mavrodiev, of the achievements he has had within these six years in the Financial Supervision Commission! My concern is that you are not learning from your mistakes: as you have chosen Mr. Mavrodiev and you see the result, you are proposing such a procedure, you want us to crush this debate, you want us to escape the conversation about how the Financial Supervision Commission works and offer us another protégé in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u29	Is there a third line? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat. I'm asking you to have the backrest in the context of the procedure, not to answer imaginary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u30	I will answer the questions Mr. Boychev asked me. Firstly, I must say that, indeed, as President of the Commission, it is my fault that this procedure has not been launched so far. But I therefore insist that we do our job today, and if we are late not to be late for a year or two, as we are late for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. Secondly, Mr. Boychev, you or your fellow party members of this tribune have repeatedly called for this. And it is surprising to me that when the rules for launching the procedure for election of President are proposed, you are against. As for the assessment of the work of the Financial Supervision Commission, not of its President, but of the Commission, because if you have knowledge of what the C.F.R. Act says, you know that the Vice-Presidents actually have portfolios in which they are absolutely competent. Absolutely. And the President of the Commission has no competence in these portfolios. His role is rather organisational, his role is rather coordinating and you know it very well. So don't manipulate the National Assembly. If we are talking about assessing the work of the Commission, it is given when the report on the work of the relevant body is given here in this National Assembly, as the accounts of other bodies are looked at. So in the procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure, there is no way for an evaluation of the report on the work of the FSC to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I won't. There is one more statement from the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov. [[Radio.]] Please really respond more quickly to the question of whether there are other speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u32	Mr. President, honourable Members, unfortunately Bulgaria is becoming popular with the fact that there are a number of regulators with expired mandates and this no longer makes an impression. Even journalists talking to me this week told me: "Okay, it's only one month later the term of Mavrodiev has expired, what is the problem? " The problem is very serious. The problem is that mandates are running out, new regulatory authorities are not chosen in time and this has become a practice in Bulgaria. It is for this reason that, in order not to get this far, Members of the Reformation bloc more than a month ago, we submitted a proposal to the Budget Commission to elect a new Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. And if you'd listened to us a month ago, we wouldn't have made it this far. There would have been time, there would have been a new procedure, there would have been a long deadline for nominations, everything would have been done according to the rules. The reality is this. At the moment there are many people in this room, they took the floor and know who they are who want this expired term to continue. And people with an expired mandate to continue to be in the Financial Supervision Commission, to continue to work, not to be replaced. That's the point. They, of course, can't say it that way and don't say it that way, but that's actually their goal.... they want the president of the C.F.R. with an expired mandate to stay there if he can until the end of the year, and why not after that. That's what the people from BSP and DPS want me to say to make it clear. [[Relations from BSP LB and DPS.]] And what we need to do, despite the delay, despite the clear error of our colleagues from GERB, who did not see, heard and did not listen to our proposal, nevertheless the right thing to do is to do the right thing, namely: support the selection procedure and have a new legitimate composition of the C.F.R., at least because stress tests, asset assessment should be done by legitimate leadership. And, Mr. Chairman, after all, on my behalf and on behalf of our colleagues in the Reformation Block, I propose that we include in the Rules a text that was in the KPC's Choice Rules and NGOs can offer nominations. Let's have it as an opportunity. It's part of the democratic choice. Let there be such suggestions. They are, of course, to be imported by MPs after all. Let us have it as an opportunity so that there can be more competition and the opportunity to choose more quality applications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u33	Thank you. There is no ban on this being done by MPs. Here's a line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u34	Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you make repeatedly suggestions and these rules, which we change each time, grow more and more with your suggestions. However, the present proposal is absolutely pointless.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u35	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u36	Because only MPs and parliamentary groups can make proposals and nominations to enter and be heard. And the fact that NGOs have the right to make such proposals to the MPs does not need to be recorded in rules. It's a normal relationship. And I have to tell you, for example, that in our Commission, and I personally have three such proposals from NGOs. Perhaps by your logic, since there is no member of the Rules, I should throw them in the basket and not at all inform the MPs of these proposals and they should be discussed? I think you should stop offering things that are absolutely pointless in order from this tribune to say what a great transparency fighter you are. [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u37	Thank you. Welcome to the second line of the people representative Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Dimitrov, I would have passed your words without a reply if it did not affect the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Once again, I ask you from this tribune that you there, on the right side of the Chamber, do not speak on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, what the Movement for Rights and Freedoms thinks, what it means and what it does. Because we do it very clearly, very transparently and very accurately. In my speech, I informed you of our decision and of its motives. And it was said there that we were to follow the procedures, that the procedure should have been opened three months ago, that we would have participated and participated in the selection of a new leadership, that it was right to change this leadership because its term had expired or to be re-elected. But putting words in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that we haven't said is incorrect. Because this means, if I have to go into your tone, to emphasise your extremely strong interest in regulators from the beginning of this term. Not, of course, in order to improve their work, but in order to make sure that an economic circle around which you gravitate gets business-friendly regulators. Because you're pulling me by the tongue, I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u39	The third line is the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, I was very interested in your speech. You were the biggest rider to have more time, more transparency in the KPC procedure. Now, at the moment, you are being offered the opposite and I am very interested in how you will vote. I would like to tell you that it does not matter to the Bulgarian Socialist Party whether the President of this Commission will be named Stoyan Mavrodiev or whether he will then be the respective Deputy Minister of Finance, because they will receive their order from the same place. So don't put us in this group that protects you-who in this regulator. But from now on, I can tell you, Mr. Dimitrov, that you and your group will very strongly support GERB's proposal for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, and this will be a very strange metamorphosis of all the claims you have had here from this tribune when it comes to these procedures. Because it is not about choosing real and independent regulators, it is about who will control them and who will give them orders for them, and you are currently packed with GERB in this game. You have that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u42	Mrs. Stoyanova, from the stands you should have admitted your mistake, not entered into an unprincipled attack. More than a month ago, we offered you this procedure to begin. Why didn't you? We have tabled a proposal to start the procedure more than a month ago so that there will be time for competition to be transparent! And instead of saying, "We at GERB made a mistake, we slept through it this month, we couldn't make a deal, we had disputes inside, you had to admit, you're looking for guilt in the Reformation Block. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It wasn't fair. With regard to nominations from civil society organizations, Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm sure you've read the Election Code. Why does the CEC say that NGOs can offer? [[GERB lines.]] Why does it say that? Why did we write that in terms of the KPC rules? We wrote it because it is important, when the MP submits the concrete proposal, to say who did it to him, which NGO was the originator, and he is the formal importer! It's more honest and more transparent. When you, Mrs. Stoyanova, come here or submit a proposal regarding the C.F.R., but do not say which non-governmental organization is the main originator, the procedure itself is much less transparent and unfair. If you don't understand the difference between the two, I can't be clearer. Furthermore, the non-governmental sector should be invited. It must be clear that we want their nominations to be active and to offer their representatives. I therefore hold on to my proposal, Mr President, and I believe that there are people in this House who understand the meaning and meaning of such a proposal. As for colleagues from BSP and DPS, behind the many words and behind the many empty stories lies the following: that they want a regulator with an expired mandate to continue to work under the conditions of expired term until the stress tests pass! This is the pain and desire of BSP and DPS. Nothing more, nothing less. There are many words, there are many statements, but there is only one point. Understand, there is no other country in the European Union where so often the mandates of regulators and Parliament or other responsible bodies are to expire not to make procedures and not to choose new ones. It's a terrifying, harmful practice, and it has to be stopped! There is almost no regulator or control body to be re-elected in time, hardly happens! Ms. Stoyanova, just so you don't get to today, so that you don't fall into this situation, we, our colleagues from the Reformation Block, more than a month ago, submitted a proposal for the launch of the C.F.R. President's election procedure to begin when it's time for us to follow the rules, but you didn't listen to us! [[Descriptions from DPS: "Search! "]] Every mistake has a price.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u43	Where do you propose to place your proposal? [[Definitions between President Dimitar Glauchev and MP Martin Dimitrov.]] The next speech is from the MP Radan Kanev. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've heard the remark and I'll answer it. The first question is: why are we suddenly in a hurry to elect a new President and, accordingly, a new composition of the Financial Supervision Commission? Because we took our time. And he's very right, my colleague Dimitrov, saying he's had a proposal a long time ago. I would recall that many pό have long been proposed to change this regulator. We are in a hurry for a very simple reason because a letter came from the European Commission, which says what we all know! However, a letter from the European Commission should come by tradition in Bulgaria to remember what we know about Bulgarian government. We are waiting for a report from Europe to tell us that we have corrupt justice, given that every Bulgarian citizen says it and everyone in this House knows it, often from personal bitter experience.. here we are half of us practicing lawyers in some period of our lives. There is only one reason that the European Commission will not recognise the stress tests carried out by the failed and dysfunctional management of the C.F.R.S.! This Commission has not worked for two years and everyone in this House knows it. We have, for a reason, proposed a legislative solution to this problem, because it has, apart from personal and structural problems, and they will manifest themselves again. There is now a hurry because it is clear that the carrying out of stress tests by this composition of the Financial Supervision Commission is a disaster, they will not be recognised by Europe, they will not put confidence in the Bulgarian financial community and the international investment community! We all know that Mavrodiev hasn't worked in years, that there is no team, that there are no vice-presidents! That's absolutely clear to everyone. The question is: why did this happen, why did it happen this way? Because, colleagues, Mavrodiev, you chose it the way you propose today! No one knew when, no one understood what and no one understood Mavrodiev! [[Reply from the hall: "Speak for yourself! "]] I don't want to quote the name of a member of the biggest party in Bulgaria who told me: "This one we chose to get him out of the parliamentary group because we didn't trust him. [[GERB's line: Zhah don't talk nonsense!]] which shows a complete lack of knowledge of the role and functions of the Financial Supervision Commission, of the importance of this institution, of this regulator for the management of the state. So the nightmare of Mavrodiev's governance in this Commission and the crisis that we are facing now and because of which we are in a hurry is due to a previous such haste and a previous misconception. I support Mr. Martin Dimitrov's proposal for editing, although it is a very small part of the solution to the problem. To our colleagues at the DPS, because they first asked us not to speak on their behalf, and then they spoke on our behalf very incorrectly, I would like to say that today because of the letter of the European Commission and because of the obvious need for a legitimate composition of the FSC to carry out the stress tests, if our editorial proposal made by Martin Dimitrov is accepted, we will support this procedure. But in the course of the procedure, forget about voting for C.F.R. President. Whoever beats him up, he's gonna take it! Don't blame us on how we're going to vote and who told us how to vote is this bullshit! And to BSP colleagues, for exactly the same reason, you will not be able to clear the stain of the pathetic agreement you made for the KPC in the interests of Lukoil. We won't give you that chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. First line.. People's representative Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honored Mr. Kanev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u47	Honorable?! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u48	Honorable Mr. Kanev! Yeah, that's my cue to you. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms agree and said that the choice of regulator should have started within the legal deadline. And we were going to support it, and we've said it more than once. Selected in time, legitimately elected body does better stress tests. Don't get us wrong. But if you were here at the beginning, when I was speaking, you'd hear... By the way, I thank you because you said it was because of the letter.. now it became clear where this letter came from.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u49	Who called who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u50	In my speech, I told you that the letter contains two arguments, both are untenable! The two arguments are opaque in decision-making, and in the styling committee there are the same representatives of the same bodies that have signed up, and there is a protocol for each decision. The second is that the process was delayed. But these same people have slowed him down, who are now protesting! In other words, the letter cannot be a reason for speeding up the procedure in five days to do so. We agree that there must be a choice. Let us make the choice within the statutory deadlines, give if we have to do it in the middle of the stress tests, but do not wave to us a letter of the European Commission as a bat, because even more you increase our doubts that this bat is carved in an economic circle, with its links in Brussels and its connections in the right part of the room where you stand! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Both you and Mr. Dimitrov are confirming these suspicions....don't at least do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u51	They're on payroll there!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kanev, let us, however, inform the National Assembly of something extremely important, and it is.. and you know perfectly well that stress tests of pension funds are being carried out for the first time in the European Union. Isn't that right? So the European Commission cannot send me a letter on how to do tests that no member of the 28 has ever done. This is important information. [[Noise and lines.]] You have many greetings! Go online and check it out! The first texts will be made in Bulgaria. If the National Assembly has delayed this choice and will now make a new choice, it means the frustration of stress tests. In addition, the stress tests of the funds are not carried out by the Financial Supervision Commission (FSC) yes, it is responsible for their organisation but are carried out by other institutions. We all want to know the truth about pension funds. Even if the government completes the embezzlement procedure of some 7 - 8 billion. BGN, we are in our right and we are obliged as MPs to know what is going on there. Therefore, BSP left Bulgaria believes that this initiative for checking pension funds is correct and we insist that it be carried out, even though it is pioneering in the European Union. It is absolutely pointless, colleagues, here the argument, who proposed when, because, Mr. Kanev, the Budget Committee is here and the Chairman Mrs. Stoyanova, more than two months ago we have recorded the same proposal, not because we are smarter than other colleagues, but because we want to follow the procedures. It is high time for parliament to start following these procedures. I'm graduating. It's good to do stress tests. No one has done these stress tests before Bulgaria, which is good. To conclude, you are right that we must respect the opinions of our partners in the European Union, but I do not agree to use letters from anyone to a sovereign state to justify that we have not done our job here in Bulgaria. Isn't that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u54	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Third line.. People's representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, just a few days ago, the report on national security has been passed through all the permanent parliamentary committees and an extremely important report has been adopted. It is interesting how many of you have read this report, but I will focus on the Boysomol speech of colleague Dimitrov and colleague Kanev. Page 13: The NGO organizations are promoting foreign interests and endangering national security. It's literally written, by memory I quote it on page. 13 in this report. In fact, I am asking you, honourable Members, whose interest do you want to push and which NGOs, with another interesting analysis that says that the same NGOs are everywhere, the same NGOs are organizing some strange protests, defending foreign interests, and trying to form an internal political opinion in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u56	With the same money.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u57	There's no way... Probably the same money. This is the other question where does funding come from to these so-called NGOs? I will not open the clamp that some other NGOs, naming themselves Ecologists, have become pure racketeers and racketeering both the state and the business, and almost we have to comply here with the opinions of these... I remind you that there is a Law on Legislative Acts in which every Bulgarian citizen has the right to such an initiative and a proposal. Be more careful when you act as civil rights defenders. And to recall, as I said in my previous remark, that not the NGOs, but the Financial Supervision Commission in 2012 cleared the financial market manipulations, addressing the State Agency's National Security. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm closing the debate. [[Loud noise and lines.]] That was a line. There's no personal explanation. Please order in the court! There's no personal explanation for a line. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u59	It's for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u60	Sorry, Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is quite understandable to miss to give me the floor for the duplicate because of the lack of any political content in the lines that have been addressed to me. [[Noise and lines.]] So if it wasn't for this pass, I wouldn't have taken it, because I can't comment on those of the type that thanks to me from the European Commission came a letter to the Bulgarian state. That is not the case for great regret.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u62	Your boss. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u63	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u64	Very, very, very far from our political resources is such a thing. In the same way, I should rather agree with Mr. Gechev that we should not have letters from the European Commission to dictate management decisions to sovereign Bulgarian authorities. However, Mr. Gechev, with his line, denied Mr. Tsonev, who said that the letter had no basis. The problem is that the letter has reason that the people in Bulgaria who are responsible for the power know that there is reason and therefore the work they did not do in time is now in a hurry to do at the last moment. It is not a question where the letter comes from that it is clear that it comes from the European Commission, it is clear that no Bulgarians dictate to the European Commission what to write, it is clear that the letter is too serious and therefore in the Bulgarian Parliament the government is forced to support. Last to Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Bajraktarov, Bulgaria is a free country. In it, everyone has freedom of association. It's in the Constitution. Anyone, under certain conditions, can make a non-governmental organisation, can also make a political party, and from there must comply with the laws of the state. I have no doubt that in Bulgaria there are both non-governmental organizations and political parties and registered religions that very often serve foreign national interest. And it may be considerably more than one foreign national interest, but this cannot be an argument against the non-governmental sector or against the political parties, which, I would say, are more sold in Bulgarian terms. It cannot be an argument because Bulgaria has external intelligence and counterintelligence, Bulgaria has investigative police and prosecution. The failure of the institutions that care for Bulgarian security cannot become an argument against the freedom of association. This is an important political issue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u65	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u66	Time's up, yeah. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. After reference it turns out that the people representative Radan Kanev mentioned the name of Martin Dimitrov. You have the floor for a personal explanation, but only within the range of concern by Radan Kanev. If you get out of this range, I'll take your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u68	Dear Mr. Kanev, any generalisation of all NGOs under one click is a bad signal given by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u69	That wasn't affected. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u70	Did the people's representative say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u71	I also appeal to you, Mr. President, please interrupt the MPs who say and place under one barrel all non-governmental organizations and say that they serve external interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u72	I'm asking for a personal explanation to Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u73	I'm asking you to interrupt, because this is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u74	That's another procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] That's another procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u75	...a very bad signal given by the National Assembly. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u76	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u77	Respect the non-governmental organizations that have the best to the worst people. That is, we need to give this opportunity for people who want to participate to be able to participate. By the way, this is a good test for parliament. Let's see today how the Bulgarian Parliament will appreciate the possibility of non-governmental organizations proposing nominations. Nice test!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Martin Dimitrov, which reads as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. A proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. Non-governmental organizations can do this is in fact the proposal... nominations through a MP or a parliamentary group. Where available, the national representative or parliamentary group shall disclose it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u79	No, no! We don't accept that! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u80	Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: 40 against 30, abstention 107. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision, as presented to you in the report by the President of the Budget Commission.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are voting on the draft decision. They voted 175 MPs: 108, against 39, abstention 28. The draft decision has been adopted. We have run out of time for legislative activity today. I'm calling a break. As of 11:00, we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u81	Honourable Members, Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 8 July 2016 to 14 July 2016 A question was received from MP Rumen Gechev to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning relations with the Republic of Cuba. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 July 2016. A question was received from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov to Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, concerning problems with the implementation of Regulation No 1 of 21 January 2015 of the Ministry of Health for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 July 2016. There was a question from the MP Slavi Binev to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, concerning the policy for attracting foreign direct investments in the Republic of Bulgaria after Brexit. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 July 2016. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MP Mihail Mikov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to two questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Daniela Panayotova; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski and a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Ahmed Ahmedov and Hassan Ademov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Culture of a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. We are continuing with the planned issues for today's parliamentary control. I will first respond to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. She will answer a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Stoyan Mirchev concerning structural changes regarding the entry into force of the Law on school and pre-school education. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u82	Dear Minister Kuneva, honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, as you know, we have a difference regarding the new Preschool and School Education Act. I realize that the fault of this Law is not yours, as it was tabled by a parliamentary group, not by the Ministry of Education, but you were not a minister of education at the time. I have repeatedly expressed the opinion that you are the person who can deal with some of the negatives that give rise to this Law. In this case I will talk about a specific example from Blagoevgrad. Colleague Vigenin and I want to pay attention to you because it is the fates of working people who remain weightless. You and the institution you represent are the person who can help in the particular situation. By its decision the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Blagoevgrad decided to close the Center for Arts and Youth House, as announced, and for their upcoming merger with the United Children's Complex in a new unit of the Center for Personal Development. This restructuring is laid down in the new Preschool and School Education Act. Aside from the appropriateness of this restructuring, the fact that the two units are being closed is perplexing for us. People are sent to the stock market and are in the dark about their future. It is unclear who will bear the responsibility of the material base. And all this two months before the Law came into force and defined the structure of the new unit! So people and material bases remain hanging in the air. In this regard, we would like to ask you: do you intend to urgently send instructions to clarify the necessary steps and prevent such unambiguous actions by the local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mirchev and Mr. Vigenin, who asked the question of closure, as you said, to the Center of Arts and Youth House in Blagoevgrad! Firstly, I would like to emphasise that we are available to make any clarification both to local authorities and to anyone who is interested in applying the new law, of course. However, let us give some very important starting points when we clarify what the role of the institutions is. Under the current Law on People's Education there are the so-called Municipal Service Departments. They are five species in total, two of which are extracurricular pedagogical establishments and organized recreation and sports units. After entering the new law, which yes, many times you have assured me that you do not like, continue to carry out their activities as centers for support for personal development. The united children's complex in Blagoevgrad is an extra-school pedagogical institution, i.e. it is a kind of municipal service unit in the system of folk education. This means that under the Preschool and School Education Act, he will continue to carry out his activities as a Centre for Personal Development Support. That's how his destiny becomes clear, isn't it? The Center of Arts you are talking about and the Youth House are also units of Blagoevgrad Municipality, only they are not in the system of folk education and the Ministry of Education and Science has no authority over them. I give both legal grounds for their existence, transformation and so on so that we can make the difference between one and the other. I repeat, the Center of Arts and Youth House are units, only to Blagoevgrad Municipality and are not in the system of folk education, and the Ministry of Education has no power over them. I would also like to make the following clarification: under the current law, municipal service units in the system of folk education are closed by order of the Minister of Education and Science on a proposal from the municipal council. Of the three institutions that you mentioned, only one of them is in the system of folk education. I didn't give an order for her closure. That's important! Nor have I received a proposal from the municipal council, which is also important. It continues and will continue to function, and it is even entitled to keep its name "United Children's Complex" and after the entry into force of the new law when it will become the Center for Support for Personal Development. What I can do under my authority, Mr. Mirchev, Mr. Vigenin, for the preservation of this institution, I have done it. I believe that with the help of the municipal council, this condition will continue. That's what I can say as Minister of Education and Science. On the other question that you're asking me, it's just not in my power. But I can make it clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The right to reply please, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the information provided. In fact, the idea of this issue was not to criticise you for actions carried out or not carried out, but to make public a problem that is likely to arise or will also arise in other municipalities, which, using the case and the possibility of entering into force on 1 August of the Pre-school and School Education Act, are fully subject to municipal subordination and funding, explaining these restructurings with the possibility to become part of the future Centre for Personal Development Support. The point is that the closure of these two units is practically two months before the entry into force of the Law. The people working there are practically already on the market. While we have the assurance of the municipal leadership that each one of them will receive a new job in the new unit of the United Children's Complex, which will be the Centre for Personal Development Support, we believe that this type of action is at least inadequate with reality. When units are closed, the new structure should also be applied directly, so that these people will not remain weightless. By giving publicity to these actions of the municipality of Blagoevgrad, we hope that through your capabilities, including the answer you have given today, it will become clear that such actions are unacceptable, that it is not right for the law to explain such actions at municipal level and that all future actions on this issue should take into account the need for people currently working to continue their activities on the relevant functions they have had so far in the new units which the law provides. Once again, thank you for your reply and I hope that your reply and the comment that has been made will serve as additional information for the municipality of Blagoevgrad and for those who intend to carry out similar actions from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. The right of the doppelganger, Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Mirchev! However, I want to give a very clear sign that I cannot be responsible for things that are not within my competence. The fact that you are using a question for a minister does not leave me calm. I can give you this information that you have and talk to your representatives at the municipal council, but that's basically asking me why something is going on somewhere with a hospital that may also have something to do with children and education, because children have to be healthy to be educated, but somehow too far away is the shot. I took the back not to express these concerns, but for something else. We need a lot of teachers in our education system. I want to invite all the people, I don't know what the municipality will do, but I want to invite all the people who have the necessary pedagogical internship and desire to continue to engage in this noble profession, to feel calm and welcome; that the framework in which we seek and stimulate teachers is something that I personally engage as a main political goal, and they are very wide, and they are welcome. We have opportunities both through national programmes and through the mentoring of young teachers to use those with greater experience. Let's turn your question to a positive with this extra line of mine. We have no right and no desire to lose qualified teachers. Our system is open to them and will attach their professional status. We need them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from MP Stanislav Stanilov on research policy, which is contrary to the requirements of the European Union. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The International United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna was established in 1956 and so far hundreds of Bulgarian scientists from leading universities and from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences worked in it. For the first time since the establishment of the Institute Bulgaria has not paid the contribution for this year. Bulgarian scientists working on modern scientific projects there were warned that the Russian side would allow them to work in Dubna only until the end of the year if our country did not pay its debts. Traditionally, the membership imports to Bulgaria are paid through the budget of our nuclear regulator. However, the Agency's 2016 budget does not provide for such funds due to the request of the Finance Minister that all funds related to scientific activity be paid through the Ministry of Education and Science. It's been seven months since the administrative arrangement has been made for who's going to pay this money. According to the Chairman of the Agency, Assoc. Lachezar Kostov, talks have been made about the transfer to happen through a decree which should be drafted by the Ministry of Education, but none so far. Professor Kostov has informed you in writing about the missed deadlines and the warning from Dubna. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to prevent the interruption of the work of the Bulgarian scientists at the International Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u91	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u92	Dear Mr. Stanilov, we are indeed in a bit of a strange situation where not exactly the Ministry of Education and Science broadcasts, so to speak, representative and not through our participation is the presence in this truly reputable center as Dubna. I'm aware of the question. It's really the way things were built. I would not like to go into a situation where I blame a previous team of the Ministry, but we will need time, because we are currently a Ministry, which is making a reform in every field of education and education. What my colleagues have convinced and assured me of and given me proof of this is that our participation in Dubna is a necessary tool and cannot be replaced by Bulgaria's participation in CERN for example. We are looking for a way, we know how much Bulgarian scientists are interested in this. My proposal would be: when it comes to funds and since it is the Agency that represents Bulgaria there, it is better that this money goes into their budget, but this is a conversation for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u94	I didn't understand anything...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u95	I also think that your question is not on the subject that is defined in the context of asking. Your question is about research policy, which is contrary to the requirement of a European... And this question from the Secretariat...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u96	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u97	No, I didn't withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u98	But this isn't the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u99	They exchanged the headlines on both issues, probably in... [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u100	But as I see Mrs. Kuneva's competence, she will also answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u101	Because Mrs. Kuneva said she was aware of the matter. My question is: will money be paid by the end of the year so scientists can work in Dubna, or will they not be able to pay? Because from what you said, it didn't make sense to me. I'm sorry if I did something wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u102	Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u103	Honourable Professor. Stanilov, good that I am following all your questions, because the question that you have asked and which I publicly had to answer now, according to my program is related to research and I am ready there for an interesting debate with you. But on the subject on which you asked about Dubna, I told you what the political intention is. Political intent must be covered by budget options. We are aware of that, and as soon as I can give you a budgetary answer, I will give it to you. At this point, accept my political response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question from the MPs Dimitar Dubov and Ivan Ivanov on the closure of the Professional High School of Mechanical Engineering in the town of Sofia Noisy. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mrs. Kuneva, this issue also concerns to a certain extent the implementation of your professional education policy and, in particular, a vocational school in the city. Noisy. You may be aware that in recent years Shumen is a famous city with expanding construction of new production facilities and at the same time the Regional Inspectorate of Education. Shumen proposes, as far as we have heard from media publications, that the Professional High School of Mechanical Engineering be closed by the new academic year 2016 - 2017. The school has a long history. It was discovered as early as 1962, through its existence vocational education there went through different stages of development, as it went both through PTU and SPTU, and reached the level of modern vocational high school. We are interested in what are the intentions of your office on the proposal made by the Regional Inspectorate of Education and does it really respond to your policy regarding vocational education and against the backdrop of the newly adopted Law on Vocational Education in Bulgaria? If you approve such a move, will this contribute to this development, especially on the territory of the city. Noisy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for your answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dubov, I see that Mr. Ivan Ivanov has also asked me this question. You can't ask it on time, because I ended up in Shumen last week, saw teachers and district inspectors in three districts. One of the questions we were looking at was this one. The meeting was with about 300 or 400 people. There's a really impressive teaching staff in Shumen. We've been discussing professionally, and this particular high school, and I even know her nickname in Shumen. I suppose you too? Here is the opinion of the Regional Inspectorate of Education. There are some disturbing findings that I would like to share with you as well. Training at the Professional High School of Mechanical Engineering is carried out with an outdated and depreciated material and technical base in theory and practice. The teachers confirmed it. During the last three years, the schooling results of students in daily form of training have shown low effectiveness of training. Only 41% of the total number of graduates of a successful XII grade is a fact and have acquired secondary education or a second degree of professional qualification. Only 41%! That's under half. From 316 students to the month of April 2016 less than half are actually in daily form of training, and most are in evening, finished and independent. In each upper class students are getting smaller and fewer, and in the last XII grade the number is half of those entering the ninth grade. This is not a healthy learning environment.. agreed everyone who attended the meeting. Here's what's going to happen after closing, and I want to tell you first here. Students will be targeted for training at the Professional High School of Mechanics, Electronics, Telecommunications and Transport, which means we will not have a loss of students, which has a modern material and technical base and in general training, and in the subjects of professional training: modernized five computer offices; laboratories; workshops equipped with modern equipment. In addition to the material base there is another important moment the school host has pedagogical staff with a higher educational, qualification and professional qualification degree. I am in touch with the Inspectorate there, and I believe, since now, with the new education system and in general education schools, we are teaching professionally that there will be no teachers who want to continue their work in their field, not being able to use their capacity. Finally, I would like to say that we are also seeking to respond to quality, and we are taking such steps only and only if the Inspectorate has proposed them and only and only if we do not see other data. That's why I was in Shumen, along with many other topics we discussed this one, and I will continue to follow the case very closely. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u108	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. The word for a reply has the popular representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mrs. Kuneva, not only in Shumen, but everywhere, the closure of schools is very delicate and you understand the public interest that rose up there and people do not accept a uniquely similar decision. I am convinced that this is not your personal decision and my request is indeed, if you can do a more detailed examination of the activities of the Inspectorate, to see all the facts, because what you have presented to me tells me about negligence over the years, as far as the Inspectorate is concerned, and regarding those who work at the school, that is, reduced control. What you have shared here is the result of a reduced control. Perhaps it should be re-evaluated precisely the activities of the Inspectorate, why it has come to this point, and if you really accept it as an appeal from both my side and the citizens and the teachers and the students, until the beginning of the school year, to find an option to keep this school, because, believe me, the city is developing, new production capacities are opening up. By the end of this year and the beginning of the next year, two new plants will be found, which will need precisely such footage. I'm worried about transferring them to another type of school if they're going to keep these majors going. For me, that one part of the students and half of them are not in regular form means that these are people who are working and looking for a way out of work to improve their qualifications. I believe in your ministry's capabilities and I am convinced that after a detailed review, perhaps you will reconsider this decision and find a way to increase control and quality of training in this school. If the closure is inevitable, at least give us some information, some conviction that this thing will not be replicated in the new school, that is, the Inspectorate will do its work and we will not hear such data here that the school has no students who graduated less and so on. I ask you to step into your role as Minister and exercise maximum control that this thing no longer happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for the right to the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u111	I am very aware that every case is special when it comes to people, to living people, every case is special, so I was there. So ever since I took over the ministry, I've already had a meeting with more than 4,000 teachers, and I'm gonna move on. I will say again, over the last three study years, the results have been such that this decision has not been taken lightly. I'll take care of the following things: students, teachers and no more children drop out of school. As for the building itself and its equipment, unfortunately, we must accept the facts. We need to give quality to both teachers and students. For teachers because they compete and compare with better and better colleagues, and students because when the environment is more demanding, they really pull forward. I understand your concern very well. If a person looks conscientiously at his work as a Member of the National Assembly, he is obliged to clarify these concerns, but believe me, for me as Minister of Education, there are even greater tensions and the desire to seek the best solution. Unfortunately, the demographic crisis is also a problem, and the changed demographic composition, and children who drop out of school very early. These are things we have to fight together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u112	I thank Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Vladislav Goranov will answer one question and ten questions. The question is from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev on the policy for financial provision of the projects for the re-arming and modernization of the Bulgarian army. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By decision of the National Assembly were adopted and approved projects for investment costs for modernization of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the acquisition of a multifunctional modular ship for the Navy and the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. Dear Minister, the price for the acquisition of the battle plane is 2.6 billion. lv. I quote the official reports that have been dealt with in the National Assembly Commission and have been part of this decision......................................................................................... lv. For the purchase of one squadron of 16 planes. This is planned to happen in two stages and first 8 aircraft will be provided, the value of one is 1.5 billion. BGN, the budget burden will be on average around 200 million. lv. by 2019 " 2020' At the same time, however, until the new fighters are partially interoperable and entered into combat duty, you know that we must maintain the country's current fighter aircraft, namely MiG-29. In the most pessimistic way, I have taken no 16 MiG-29, and we have only 8 complete, fit to carry combat duty. For repair, repair and maintenance of them in the most pessimistic version, the Ministry of Defence gives the sum of about 100 million. The current maintenance must also be provided, which is part of the modernization project and which is about 35-40 million per year. Total only for the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria there is a financial burden of 330-370 million per year by 2019 and then the amount increases from 480 to 590 million per year. The other project approved by a decision of the National Assembly is the multi-functional patrol ship, two in number, the amount is 820 million, I still take the pessimistic option, which is a five-year deferred payment. This means from 114 to 171 million every year, again we have to put funds to modernize the current frigates, which are of the order of 70 to 100 million per year by 2020. Here we have a load of 250 to 300 million per year for the Navy or a total of the two projects 550 to 600 million per year from now on, Minister, from the Ministry of Defence's budget. You know that the budget is 1 billion, you know that 75% of it goes to the Fund "Work pay" and only about 5% for capital expenditure. The third type of armed forces is not envisaged here, and they are the main Bulgarian army for their project. In this regard, my question is: what is the policy of the Bulgarian government on providing financial resources to secure the forthcoming modernization of the Bulgarian army? What is the amount of funds needed in the medium and long term? What will be the source of funding and at the expense of what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u114	Mr. Boychev, this may be in the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u115	I set an example with a nearby Greece, where you know that not a small part of this great lengthy time was precisely to rearm their army. An extremely important issue is in view of the budgetary position in which the Republic of Bulgaria is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Minister Goranov, you are entitled to an answer within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Boychev, before I begin the exhibition, it is not clear whether you are against these projects or about the projects, but the numerical information that you presented is too voluminous and is too different from the estimates the Bulgarian government deals with, drawn up by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance. At the meetings related to the Investment Expenditure Project, three options for the purchase of airplanes were discussed. According to preliminary data, the price proposals for the acquisition of 8 aircraft range from one billion to one and a half billion. The real cost of the acquisition of aircraft will be known after sending a request for a proposal request for a proposition for the countries concerned, receiving replies from them and subsequent negotiations for the preparation of the contract. You quoted correctly the project's estimated value related to the acquisition of two multifunctional modular patrol ships to replace Russian warships which are not interoperable and are not subject to modernisation. You quoted correctly that the value of the project is 820 million. At the total value at which we assess the two projects proposed by the government relating to the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft and the acquisition of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the needs of the Navy are assessed for the period up to 2022 at 2 billion. 320 million is the sum of these projects that I have commented on so far. The estimates for the period 2016 - 2019 with which the government's three-year budget forecast is planned include respectively years: 124 million for 2016; 371 million for 2017; 371 million for 2018; 297 million for 2019. I would like to assure you that, even now, in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, resources are being allocated to the Navy and the Air Force. Moreover, if it comes to it, and when it comes to the implementation of the Navy Project, a significant savings are expected from a resource related to the maintenance and assembly of the current funds that the Navy is using. The assurances and commitments that the Bulgarian government has to increase the military budget are implemented gradually on the basis of the Strategy for the Development of the Armed Forces and the Programme 2020, adopted by the Council of Ministers. I do not share your concerns that this would have an unbearable burden on the Bulgarian budget, as far as I have been involved in their development and we have complied with the forecasts and opportunities for the coming years. The source of these funds is the Bulgarian budget, in this sense the funding is at the expense of the sources with which the Bulgarian budget is financed, these are tax and non-tax revenues, and in the event of excess income over costs in the absence of another resource, it is at the expense of borrowed funds. However, the persistent trend of improving the budget balance and reducing the deficit, as our forecasts are, shows that a source of funding for this re-arming will be the revenues of the Bulgarian budget. Thus, in general, I could answer the questions you have asked. Undoubtedly, the goal set within NATO is to reach 2% of gross domestic product. It will be pursued gradually, with an increase in the relative share of defence expenditure in gross domestic product in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u118	Thank you, Minister Goranov. The word has the popular representative Valeri Zablyanov to ask two supplementary questions. Here you are, dear Mr. Zablyanov, to develop the two further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u119	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, your response, as you have presented, is not satisfactory to us for several reasons. First, the figures which my colleague Mr. Zhelyo Boychev outlined are absolutely accurate and are taken from the two projects that passed through the Council of Ministers and through the National Assembly. The estimates, albeit for the purchase of military equipment in aviation, for the construction of the two frigates in the Navy, are the estimated costs of the two projects for modernisation of the two kind of troops. The costs amount to a colossal amount for the Bulgarian budget and for the current budgetary opportunities. And you know that. Apart from the costs which my colleague Mr. Boychev quoted, about 40 to 140 million. lv. The forecast for the increase of the salaries of the servicemen in the Bulgarian Army is planned annually. Of all the sources of information we have, including from the minister of parliamentary questions, it became clear that the main problem of the army is currently the motivation of personnel in the army. In the forecasts that you presented to us, it is only the financing of the two projects that went through the National Assembly. Besides the sources of funding, we are interested in the criteria on which you approved two of the projects and did not approve the Land Forces Project, which is worth a billion and three hundred to two billion levs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u120	With a request for the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u121	For what reason did you approve only two projects and not approve the Land Forces Project? What were the criteria for this action and why did the main line of troops in the Bulgarian Army not receive one lev of funding?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Minister Goranov, please come in three minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zablyanov, your question goes slightly beyond what was originally put forward and introduces the debate on the priorities of individual sectors, which is held every time the annual state budget is drawn up. By what criteria did the government give priority to two of the three projects drawn up in the Ministry of Defence? You know the problems in the various clans of armed forces, in this case it is assessed in accordance with the budget and the burden that it can bear over the years that these are the two priorities. I am not a military specialist in order to be able to specifically answer you what the state of individual troops is and whether this should be the priorities, but with a debate within the government we have brought these two out. They can fit within the Bulgarian budget. As regards the attitude towards other parts of the Ministry of Defence's budget, this will be a debate that will be held in the course of drafting the 2017 budget and is a matter of priorities. There's a professor sitting next to you. Gechev, who, as a counterpoint of the topic of cost increase, can raise the topic of a growing need to assume new debt if uncontrollably the costs increase. In this sense, it is a very interesting and thorough debate that we should have in the next few months in relation to the 2017 budget and the following years as a forecast. If it is judged by the national representation that not education, not health care, and that is the priority, there is no obstacle at the expense of one expenditure to prioritize others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u124	Thank you, Minister Goranov. An attitude to the answer? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u125	Mr. Minister, we appreciate your answers as inconclusive because you have in no way dispelled the doubts that there is no clear view in the Ministry of Finance and in the government for the upcoming payments by year on the modernization of the Bulgarian Army. You did not dispel the doubts that the two projects were selected at random, you could not mention any criteria why two projects were selected for modernization of the Navy and the Air Force, and without one lev left the Land Forces of the Republic. You couldn't give a single argument! This is not about the political arguments that you are talking about, but about financial arguments. In addition to the estimates you have offered us are based on a major source of income tax revenue and tax revenue, you know very well that Bulgaria's budgetary framework for the next few years cannot bear such expenditure. This means that these are two or hollow projects, which are not secured by the funding and which you dealt with for two months the National Assembly and the public opinion, or that in some way you intend to provide funding for which you do not want to warn the Bulgarian citizens, that is to say, unfavorable to the Bulgarian State loans. I would like to tell you that without a comprehensive project for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, every step of the government will be seen by the Bulgarian Socialist Party as an attempt to satisfy certain self-interests of arms sellers in the field of defence, without achieving the overall goals of reforming the Armed Forces and for a better level of security of the Republic of Bulgaria in today's troubled times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. The next question is from the MP Yavor Haytov on measures by the Ministry of Finance for VAT fraud. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues before me talked about expenses. I care about expenses, too, but before there are any, of course there must be revenue. That is why my question is in terms of revenue in the budget. And for the expenses that interest me, I'll tell you in the back. But, Minister, tax collection and income in general in the Republican budget is one of the most important functions of the Ministry, which you are in charge of. Of course, Bulgarian citizens are particularly pleased and when you are able to provide additional funds, whether for certain activities, whether for municipalities to solve local issues. In recent years, one of the tax collection figures is value added tax fraud. Many times in various forums.. public, and when we talk about the special services not so publicly, this issue has been discussed, discussed and sought its solution. My question to you is: what does the Ministry of Finance do with its security agencies to prevent and reduce value added tax fraud? And I ask you to do an analysis within the short period of time we have, in the last few years, of what the results of the fight against this crime are, how the interaction and cooperation with special services are implemented, including law enforcement and law enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, over the past three years, I stress three, as I also include a period before the launch of the current government's mandate, the Ministry of Finance has taken many legislative and administrative measures to prevent and combat VAT fraud, as well as measures for interinstitutional cooperation and coordination to combat the same. From 1 January 2014, the Value Added Tax Act introduced the reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops in order to protect the fiscal position, and to prevent and combat VAT fraud. The mechanism has proven to be an effective tool for preventing organised VAT fraud relating to cereals and technical crops with the participation of non-existent economic operators. The figures for 2014 show that the lack of VAT for grain supplies has decreased by 79 million and the net positive effect for the budget is 207 million and is expressed as a reduction of the declared VAT for import by 122 million and a reduction of declared VAT for recovery by 329 million. For 2015 and 2016, the effect of the mechanism in place continues to manifest and assess around 200 million. In view of the positive effects on the budgetary revenue from the implementation of this measure, the period of application by agreement of the European Commission has been extended until 31 December 2018. From 1 January 2014 fiscal control has been introduced on the movement of goods with high fiscal risk in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to protect the fiscal position and prevent tax evasion, corporate taxes and income taxes of natural persons. The list of goods with high fiscal risk shall be validated by an order of the Minister of Finance, which shall be updated periodically on the basis of the monitoring of such types of goods. According to the data provided by the VAT Act, declarations submitted in January 2015 compared with the data for 2014, there was a significant increase in the declared tax base of transactions in the country, which amounted to 605.5 million. lv. or 16,5% as for declared domestic Community acquisitions of 17,4%. For 2015, there was an increase in the declared tax base of 7,326 billion or 4% in transactions in the country. Since the beginning of 2013, control has been introduced over the entire process related to the supply and movement of liquid fuels from producer and importer to end-user and exchange of information between the Information Systems of the Customs Agency and the NRA. As of 1 January 2015, the measure has been supplemented by persons charging for their own use with liquid fuels of vehicles, machinery, equipment and equipment. We should note the measures adopted in 2015. A single national strategy for raising tax collection, tackling the shady economy and reducing the costs of compliance with the legislation, which contains a clear vision and action plan for the period 2015 - 2017 with specific legislative and administrative measures. The strategy includes prevention measures to combat VAT fraud, two of which are expected to have the greatest effect. At the end of 2015, an Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Risk Goods and Goods was established. The centre is located in the building of the General Directorate of Organized Crime at the Ministry of Interior and there are employees from the Ministry of Interior, DANS, Customs Agency, NRA, the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. Since the establishment of the Centre, more than 24,000 inspections have been carried out on goods and goods at high fiscal risk. In 2016, the introduction of a new control measure on the whole process related to the movement and supply of goods in the country is envisaged. The measure constitutes the introduction of an electronic system in which all taxable persons declare information on the movement of goods. In conclusion, it should be noted that revenue from tax revenue in 2015 compared to 2014 amounts to a billion and 828 million under the consolidated fiscal programme, which is 7.9 percent in nominal growth. As of June we have a billion and 400 million tax and non-tax revenues without aid in excess of the same period of 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u130	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Straight to the line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! In fact, the conclusion is that over the years, the tax administration has stabilized, managed to reduce VAT fraud and thus increase the revenue and budget. However, as a lawyer who has also dealt with criminal law, I would like to tell you that the results are not yet what the overall expectation is and there are still people who believe that they can live this way and carry out such crimes planically, systematically, I would say very often. So the mobilisation of the tax administration depends largely on you. I am convinced that you will do everything in your power to raise more revenue in the budget, because when I was developing my question, I promised you that in the reply I would also tell you something about the costs of what my colleagues were talking about before me. I'll start with maybe a rhetorical question: do you remember where you were on June 22nd this year? You can hardly answer from memory, but I'll remind you. You were visiting Northwestern Bulgaria. You were in Dimovo, Montana and Vratsa. The regions that need more investment and investment, which the Bulgarian government promises, which I would say happens very slowly. Very often, justification is lack and lack of sufficient funds in the budget and overall. I will not hide that about a year ago I was with you in your office for a few months to ask for assistance and support from the Ministry precisely for the region in which I was elected as the National Representative this is the Vrachan region. This is a region that, over the years, has been the stepchild of the government and for which there is still not enough funds for investment in infrastructure, in all these components that are needed for better development and the better lives of the people there. I am convinced that the results you have pointed out, sooner or later, and we too, who live and work for the Northwest, will be able to take advantage of it one way or another and we rely on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Will you use the right to the back, Mr. Goranov? No. The next question is from the MP Rumen Gechev on the unconfirmed three-year program of the Bulgarian Bank for Development. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Goranov! According to the Law on the Bulgarian Development Bank, Chapter 3 of the Bulgarian Development Bank, art. 4, para. 4, as amended and supplemented in the Official Journal, issue 82 of 2009, in force from 16 October 2009, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism, approved a three-year strategy for the Bank's activities in accordance with national economic policy. My question is: why does the Ministry of Finance as principal and the Council of Ministers not comply with the provisions of the Law and have not established such a strategy for the current period? The Bulgarian Development Bank has been working without a established Strategy for five months now to the submission of this issue, and to date it is seven months. In this regard, how the Bank implements art. 44, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, where it is explicitly stated that: The priorities in the activities of the Bank are in line with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding small and medium-sized enterprises. In the period January 2015 - April 2016 what is the share of loans granted to small and medium-sized enterprises? In what sectors of the economy and what is the extent of binding this credit to the economic programme of the government?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u134	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, your question is appropriate. The explanation is this. Within the previous 2015 in due order and in implementation of the law was developed and adopted Strategy of the Bulgarian Development Bank and its formed banking group. In the meantime, there have been circumstances whose dynamics and intensity have had a significant impact on the market environment and behaviour of economic operators, namely: significant turbulence in the environment, including excessive liquidity for the banking sector, the introduction of negative interest by the Bulgarian National Bank for Development, the continuing influence on the sector following the declared bankruptcy of KTB, commitments under the review of the quality of assets in the banking system, which complicates the operational policy and strategy of banks, the mandate assigned to the Bulgarian Bank for Development on the occasion of the National Energy Efficiency Programme of Multifamily Housing Buildings and related events with the provision of the necessary financial provision, the nomination of the Bulgarian Bank for Development as a promoting national bank under the Juncker Plan, the project for the restructuring of funds and the definition of a set of the proposed financial instruments with the aim to directly influence one of the main product lines of the BBI Group. It is appropriate to rethink and further develop the strategy adopted by the competent authorities of the Bank in accordance with the amended market realities. Since the beginning of 2015, the activities of the Group of the Bulgarian Development Bank have marked a significant activation of its activities on its main product lines, namely indirect lending through commercial banks in support of the business. For the first time in four years a new on-lending program has been launched Two new indirect lending programmes have been launched through non-bank financial intermediaries, agricultural credit cooperatives in support of farmers and leasing companies in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. Successful, by our estimation, has launched a programme with indicated lending jointly with commercial banks aimed at stimulating their credit activity. There are also successfully implemented programmes for the redemption of claims under operational programmes and by public entities. The National Guarantee Fund has organised and implemented a new programme to ease access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises with a volume of around 650 million. BGN, with contracts with 10 commercial banks being concluded for this purpose. The micro-financing institution of the Bulgarian Development Bank group provided 126 micro-credits and leases worth more than 8 million. lv. Two representative offices of the Bulgarian Development Bank in Montana and Vratsa were opened. The above measures have also been reflected in the good, very good results reported at the end of 2015, in fact, the financial results of the BBI group adopted at the general meeting of shareholders held in April of this year, as well as in the confirmed credit rating of the bank by the Fitch Rating Agency. In order to complete the answer, I would add that we will adopt the Strategy definitively, although this is not an excuse for failure to comply with art. 4 of the Law after the final completion and announcement of the results of the verification of the quality of assets and stress tests, which is to be completed in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u136	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Professor. Gechev, you have the right to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Goranov, I do not envy you at all that you had to answer this question, as it became clear that: I do not know who told you, Minister, that you can justify the international situation that you do not comply with the law. There is a law, ladies and gentlemen ruling by GERB! Laws are being enforced. About you Constitution, deadlines for the selection of regulatory authorities, laws concerning the Bank for Development, which relies on the small and high-profile business you are telling me that the international situation and the domestic... KTB is from 2014, the Juncker Plan has been commented for three years, has been adopted last year and you know perfectly well, honourable colleague, you are sufficiently qualified and experienced that such an explanation cannot be accepted. Rather, you must answer: when will you execute the law? Tell us here in front of the National Assembly and in front of the Bulgarian viewers in two weeks, in three weeks, when will you make an adjustment? Otherwise, you can't be wrong about the international situation. The second side of the question is that the government of the Republic of Bulgaria has no completed economic programme and there is no economic policy as a system. That's actually the main question. If I am in the place of the Supervisory, Managing and Executive Body of the Development Bank, I will tell you: Mr. Minister, your government has nowhere scheduled an economic programme, how can we coordinate the strategy of the Development Bank? That is to say, at the moment, the Republic of Bulgaria has no program to give to the Development Bank and to synchronise its actions. As a result, there is anarchy at the moment. In practice, the Development Bank operates only on the principle of market demand that came, approved or not approved by certain rules. But there is no pro-active lending, conducting a policy which companies are small and medium-sized, in which sectors of the economy, under what conditions, under what preferences. In a word, the Development Bank without a well-established programme and without a government programme is working on a lonely one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So, Minister, answer when you will obey the law! No more running around! Give me a deadline, specific!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u138	Right to the doppelganger, Minister Goranov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u139	Mr. Gechev, I replied to you, but you may not have heard me. In the next few weeks a strategy will be considered as a result of the stress tests and the assessment of the quality of the assets, which the Bulgarian Development Bank is going through. The data that I quoted to you.. you will then be able to see from the shorthand so that we do not waste time repeating them does not mean that all the time we are talking about, the Bank has not performed significant in volume as a value and as separate operations activities related to the mandate of the Bank and the status for which it was created and exists. It is wrong and incorrect to conclude that the Bank does not fulfil its functions, even though a formal strategy approved by a government is missing. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that 30 million profits, which it registered in the previous 2015, have never been achieved in its activities, and such profits are accounted for on the basis of real business and real operations that the Bank carries out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov regarding absurdities in the tax treatment regime in national student competitions. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The Bulgarian public was outraged by the news that talented children, awarded for their successes in national student competitions, are taxed on their awards. The case has shown how absurd the tax relief regime is. In the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, awards in national student competitions are equalized to non-cash income for which the parent owes tax, although the child is underage and is not a taxpayer. At the same time, the Law exempts from tax the awarded state and national awards to artists in the field of culture and athletes. The prizes of prize winners for projects and programmes financed by the National Fund of Culture and the awarded state monetary awards for special services to the Bulgarian state and the nation are also not subject to the awards. So it turns out that in the field of culture and sport, the state has considered that it should not collect tax, but in the case of students declared at official organized by the Ministry of Education and Science national competitions, parents should pay. The requirement is strange and against the backdrop of the fact that students' scholarships, some of which are also given for high success, are exempt from tax. As of this year, they are exempt from tax and scholarships given under the Programme of the Erasmus Plus. The Ministry of Education and Science has created the practice of adding to the subject prizes and a certain amount to pay the tax due. It is even more ridiculous that the amount of the tax on the monetary allowance is added to it. From one feather in the state budget funds are transferred to another feather in the state budget. A negligible small income is realised for the budget, but the effect on the child's psyche is enormous in my opinion. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: will you support a proposal for a tax exemption from national student competitions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u142	Thank you, Lord Stanilov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stanilov, I am ready to discuss and change the legislation so that exactly this type of income, rather the income that you comment on, is beyond the scope of taxation, as I agree with much of the conclusions you have drawn, except the conclusion that paying taxes is stressing people. It is probably not pleasant as an exercise, but for the sake of statehood, we must pay our taxes! The actual situation. The awards received for participation in national student competitions are not listed as a separate kind of income in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, which is why in their tax treatment they find the general rules and principles of the Law, that is to say, art. 10, para. 2: Depending on the form of payment, the income may be monetary or non-cash; art. 12, para. 1: The income from all sources acquired by a taxable person during the tax year, with the exception of the income which is non-taxable under this Law, shall be eligible. In the light of the provisions cited, since at present the awards received for participation and ranking of prizes in national student competitions are not exempt from taxation, the same formal The purpose of any tax relief, which is undoubtedly the exemption from taxation of the particular kind of income, is to protect a certain public or social interest. This conclusion is valid for all tax reliefs provided in the current legislation, including the incomes listed in the submitted issue................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to complete the answer to this question, we very precisely have to deal with tax reliefs, but as a political position I can state that exactly this kind of income that you are talking about makes sense to go beyond the scope of personal income taxation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Stanilov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u145	This time, there seems to be a complete agreement between power and opposition?! As far as stressing is concerned, I am talking about children's psyche, children, and whether they are taxable or non-taxable members of society and citizens of this country, it is a question of Constitution, in my opinion, whether children can be taxed on their income in particular. As far as I know, there's no clear set-up in the Law for this. The Constitution doesn't say anything about it either. Thank you for your attention, Minister. I'm satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u146	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev on tax and insurance treatment in the use of company assets for personal purposes, the so-called weekend tax. Here you go, Mr. Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question concerns the deduction of tax credit on acquired assets of companies registered under VAT, in particular in their part when used for private purposes. In the media and in society, this tax is known as the weekend tax. A very large public discussion was raised on how the exact amount to be paid was to be calculated. The National Revenue Agency came up with very detailed and confusing guidelines on the subject, and it was not clear how much the total tax burden on this personal use was due. There was also no complete clarity on the parameters for carrying out the adjustments for the use of a tax credit for assets acquired before 2016 and used for private purposes during this transitional period. Seven months after the entry of these guidelines, this Wednesday in the Budget and Finance Committee, we adopted at first reading changes to the Corporate Income Tax Act, which eliminate part of bureaucracy and, to a certain extent, restore justice, although the issue of social security is not automatically resolved, but, according to the importers, by a law-making act. The changes come with a retroactive date from 1 January 2016, they meet in principle support from branch organizations, from accounting audit companies mainly with business reliefs. Thus, in practice, I received an incomplete answer to one of my two questions asked almost two months ago, namely why the administration does not come up with complete instructions for the taxation of the personal use of company assets under all tax and insurance regulations. On the eve of 2016 in your TV participation you stated that this is not a weekend tax, but a daily tax, which is more true, and that the purpose of the Law is to catch the big things. In connection with this statement, you then made a statement that at least 100 million are expected to enter the state treasury. In view of today's situation, my questions are as follows: what are the revenues received from the so-called weekend tax for each of the months of 2016 up to now? Is the Ministry of Finance's forecast for income from this line of taxation justified? Will you adjust your forecast for 2016, given the expected entry of the new tax regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u148	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kovachev, the formal answer to the first question will explain why the formal question is as follows. The tax levied on supplies of goods or services for private purposes from February to the end of June amounts to 5,2 million. lv. However, where, instead of charging a tax on the use of an asset for which a tax credit is used or for private purposes, the taxable person has made an adjustment to the tax credit used under art. 79 of the VAT Act, this information is not mentioned individually in the documents submitted to the National Revenue Agency and therefore could not be clearly extracted from the information systems and analysed with regard to the reduction of the tax credit used. Unfortunately, there is no possibility to provide information on the amount of the non-exercised right to deduct tax credit in cases where a VAT registered person has decided to keep the assets entirely in his personal patrimony, excluding them from the value added tax system or to include assets in his business only to the extent to which they are used for business purposes, because these data are not at all declared to the revenue administration precisely for the purpose of administrative economy. The tax effect of the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act in relation to the personal use of commercial assets is formed both by the tax charged and by a non-exercised or reduced tax credit and since there is no possibility to provide information on the amount of non-exercise or reduced tax credit, the abovementioned amount of tax charged in relation to personal use cannot properly reflect the effect on the budget as a result of the amendment of the VAT Act. It is important to note that as a result of discussions about the so-called weekend tax, which I continue to believe should be applied every day, has led to two clearly expressed effects. Firstly, it has been significantly improved to understand that the existence of registration under the Law on Value Added Tax of one person does not automatically mean the existence of a right to purchases of permanent personal consumption by 20% cheaper than all other unregistered persons. The public debate led to a mass transfer of company assets, especially of real estate and vehicles from their nominal owners, registered under the Value Added Tax Act, to their actual users. This process started from the beginning of a year and, in addition to the direct fiscal effect of VAT taxation on these supplies, the overall increase in revenue from value added tax, reaching a growth of 27.9 per cent compared to the first six months of last year. In answer to the second question, I would like to inform you that the additions made to the provisions of the VAT Act relevant to the tax treatment of the use and separation of goods which are commercial assets for private purposes by their nature do not alter the tax treatment of these hypotheses. They provide more clarity as to the determination of the date of the tax event and the tax base in these cases. Therefore, the focus of the indication issued on 22 January 2016 is on the criteria for determining and distinguishing between the delivery of a good and a service to be delivered in these cases, as well as on the correct determination of the tax base in the case of the provision of a good with the characteristics of a long-term asset treated as the supply of a service. One more seconds to complete the answer. You know that at this week's meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the MPs adopted a bill of amendment and supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act submitted by MPs from several parliamentary groups, agreed with a large part of the employers' organizations. It eases the mechanism for taxation of personal use in the form of costs in kind related to own, employed or provided for use assets or personnel provided for personal consumption in the light of the Corporate Income Tax Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kovachev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This time it will be very short. I thank you for your answer. All this is what you said is true. Indeed, it has come to extreme sale and resale of assets, but the main wines, dear Minister, for these actions of the business, were caused precisely because of this commotion that the NRA made. Why? Because after the instructions had come out in practice they continued to receive three declarations. The first one for the cars, the second one for the properties and the third one for the low-value assets, which we know cannot have a materiality threshold under a directive, but it was silently 250 BGN. As for the revenue section, 5.2 million.. direct effect on the fissure is far less, but if we refer to nearly 30% improvement in VAT revenues, this is good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Kovachev. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kovachev, we agree that administration of value added tax is relatively complicated. The failure to settle personal use, other than a fissure, is also a long-standing omission in VAT regulations, but the tax mechanism and the philosophy of value added tax did not change with the amendments in 2015, but only created rules for this. We will continue to work towards easing the mechanism of taxation on the added value of personal use. You know, I have not reported to Parliament, but you have probably read that we have sent a request for a derogation to the European Commission and we expect a positive opinion, as our request for a derogation with regard to passenger cars is similar to those given similar authorisations in respect of many Member States of the European Union. In this sense, we will continue to work to alleviate the value added tax mechanism and direct taxes on the personal use of corporate assets. The easiest thing for the Bulgarian business if it does not want to be in a hypothesis where its accountability is difficult is not to use for personal needs company assets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u154	Thank you. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the MP Yavor Iliev Haytov on the collection of charges from Internet companies in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, and the second question in my parliamentary control is again regarding the increase in revenue and it is as follows: Mr. Minister, on the days around 24 May, Bulgarian mass media reported that over 100 investigators under the leadership of prosecutors had conducted a large-scale raid at Google Central in Paris. The reason for this is the search for evidence of tax evasion by this Internet giant. It also became clear that France claims more than 1 billion. 600 euros of taxes Google owes her. Clearly, this company has agreed to pay 130 million. The pound of Great Britain and again this is information from the mass media to settle its dispute over unpaid taxes. A few months before that, such a transaction had been made with Italy for 319 million. Euros. Many criticisms in this direction, namely for tax evasion in the territory where they operate, also receive companies such as Facebook, Amazon and Yahu. Driven by their desire for more investment in the areas in Bulgaria, I am aware that everyone should pay their taxes where they work, where they generate profit and my question to you is: what taxes have companies such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Yahu and other Internet companies paid in our country? I hope that the tax administration you run has taken all the necessary steps to correct the fissure of both small businesses, single traders, farmers, small companies with one, two, three, five employees, and such global companies, which I am convinced are an example of imitation not only as business operators, but also as correctness to the tax authorities. That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, information about your case of the investigation by the French tax authorities has not officially entered the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency, and we are familiar with publications in Bulgarian and foreign publications. The French tax authorities are investigating Google's activities because they suspect that the company does not properly declare the revenues of its activities on the territory of France. According to information in the media, revenues are redirected to the company registered in Ireland, Google Ireland Ltd., the purpose of which is to tax profits with lower corporate tax. In Ireland, the corporate tax rate is 12.5% and in France it is 34,4%. This is actually the reason why the company is being investigated in other European countries - Britain, Italy and others. Regarding Google's activities in Bulgaria, I inform you that in March 2015 the company is registered with Google Bulgaria and is 100% owned by Google International USA. The company was registered under VAT on 8 May 2015 and, as of this moment, two checks were carried out for the periods September 2015 and December 2015. "February 2016." As a result of the checks, acts of seizure and recovery have been issued and value added tax has been recovered. At present, an inspection is being carried out of the company entrusted with a finding of non-compliance in the VIES system. This is the system for the exchange of VAT information within the EU for the period from July 2015 to December 2015. The verification was completed at the end of June without findings of detected infringements. The discrepancies in the data submitted by Google companies in Ireland, UK regarding trilateral operations involving Google Bulgaria are specified. With regard to the taxation of the services provided by Google, Facebook, Amazon, Yahu and others, it should be noted that according to Bulgarian law, the taxation of VAT on services provided by these companies depends on whether the services are provided to VAT registered persons or not. When services are found to be VAT-registered persons, they have a place of execution within the territory of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian debtors must charge the VAT due by a protocol which is included in the purchases and sales logs for the relevant period. Information on subsidiaries of cited companies shall be exchanged through the VIES system and the NRA shall have the necessary information to carry out control in case of need. In cases where services are found to be VAT-registered persons, it is an electronic provision of services to non-taxable persons and the specific EU VAT scheme known as the MOSS or one-stop shop is applied. The scheme entered into force at the beginning of 2015 and suggested that the company providing such services should register in the Member State where it was established. Where the company provides services electronically to non-VAT registered persons established in other Member States, the same shall charge the rate tax of the Member State concerned, collect it from the buyer of the service and transfer it to the Member State of its registration. This country, for its part, shall be yarn of the Member State of registration of the person not registered under VAT. From the beginning of 2015 until now under this scheme, the subsidiaries of Google, Facebook, Amazon, Yahu, E-Bay and others registered in other Member States that have declared services rendered to Bulgarian taxable persons are: Facebook Payments International Limited, Amazon Media EU, Amazon Services Europe, Amazon Instant Video Germany, YAHO EMEALIMITED, eBay respectively German, Swedish and eBay Europe Luxembourg company. The total amount of VAT received by Bulgaria under the MOSS scheme by the listed companies amounts to 1 million. 712 thousand. 613 euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, it became clear that, thanks to the behaviour of the tax authorities, from the verification of these giants, over the past year, 1 million have entered Bulgaria's budget. $700,000. Euros. Whether there are few or many tax specialists will say. For me, however, it is more important that these giants are not left, as they say in an accessible language, in a single language, that they are somehow subject to control.. the tax authorities are suing them to pay their taxes here, on our territory, and the money to enter the Bulgarian budget. I believe, once again, that this is a matter of detailed reference, of in-depth analysis and work, that this amount is insignificant, small. I repeat, I am pleased with your answer and especially because these companies are being monitored, as well as small companies, as I said at the beginning of my question, companies that have several people involved, sole traders. This must be for everyone.. all subject to control and, respectively, obligation to pay their taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u160	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? ▪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The next question to Minister Goranov is from the National Representative Vili Lilkov on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance for a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister Goranov! The Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the mandate 2014 - 2018 provides Priority 13.1, which I will read precisely: Overcoming the economic backwardness of individual regions in the country. In this regard, the development of a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, Rhodopes and other border, mountain and semi-mountain regions has started since May 2015. Here I am opening the clamp and I will say that this particular Programme was the basis for 2015 the national budget not to include targeted funds for specific projects and programmes for the Northwest. Then we MPs showed understanding because we expected that a comprehensive, targeted support programme for the Northwest and the regions I have listed will be ready in 2015. This Programme, which started in May 2015, was completed in 2015 and presented, adopted by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but, unfortunately, it is now eight or nine months, the Programme is not presented to the Council of Ministers, is not funded. To my question, which I asked Minister Lilyana Pavlova two months ago: why the Programme is still delayed and has not been accepted, I received an answer that she is in the Ministry of Finance and is waiting for an opinion of the Ministry for its financial security. I am concerned by the fact that the Programme is slowing down and, moreover, will not begin its implementation in 2016. It is likely that at the earliest date it can be applied in 2017. [[the President signals that time has run out]] when it has to be financially secured. My question to you is: why does the Targeted Investment Programme support the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandja, Rhodopes and other border, mountain and semi-mountain districts. I would just like to point out that I asked this question on 30 May 2016 and I would be very happy if, in the meantime, the Programme had received your positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u162	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, a few things I could say about the so-called........ for the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions........................ I cannot agree with the fact that the Programme has not started, insofar as much of the investment costs that the government makes are primarily directed to these parts of Bulgaria. It is not for a reason that my visit to Northwestern Bulgaria is quoted precisely on the occasion of monitoring the process of realization of these investments. From the team of the Ministry of Finance we can easily express an opinion on the proposed Programme within some or other divisions of the state budget. Unfortunately, however, I am not convinced, on the basis of my visits to Northwestern Bulgaria, that conventional measures, pouring some money into infrastructure, will result in a positive result needed to revive these parts of Bulgaria. The problem of Bulgaria's economic restructuring for the last 25 years is related to the movement of human resources both in terms of migration outside the state and in terms of concentration within the country from less to more developed areas. In my opinion, the economic recovery approach should be targeted with priority specific and not horizontal measures in terms of the impact on human capital in these areas. Very often, even in these economically backward areas, lines are being heard by a hardly chattering but existing small and medium-sized business that there is no possibility to provide the necessary human resources for sealing or for the development of a business in these regions. The debate in the government is not over, because according to the Ministry of Finance's assessment, these measures have not exactly been drawn up which will lead to the solution of the main problem, according to our understanding,.... the quality of the workforce and the quality of human resources. Here I am not only talking about human resources in a period when they can give a workforce, but I am talking about education, social protection, detention at school. All these measures for us are priority and we have not yet seen them in the so-called Development Plan. We are working intensively with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on prioritizing them, because the horizontal employment measures applied by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will not give or give the necessary result in these areas we are talking about. Summarizing, as the time is short: the costs that the government makes and which are provided for under European programmes, even if they are carried out, this is necessarily an insufficient condition that this region will be developed. We must continue our work until we find these measures, outside the conventional ones, to lay asphalt and to build social infrastructure that will increase the quality of human capital and which improve the way of life in these sectors. That's why the debate isn't over yet. Otherwise, what is provided for in the Investment Programme, what is estimated in the Operational Programmes is also realized, even though such a document is not formally approved by the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u165	Dear Minister Goranov, I will try to translate what you said to the people of Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha, the Rhodopes, the semi-mountain and mountain regions. You say so: conventional measures that are applied in such cases will not work, first. Secondly, the horizontal measures implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are also ineffective. Thirdly, you say: there is no potential for specialists working, knowing people who can intercept these investments that you will make in the different types of infrastructure. Fourth, you say: this Programme, which has been developed for six months by specialists, discussed at all levels, discussed by the municipalities of the Northwest and other regions, on which there is a positive opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, whose implementation is given I do not know how much, but hundreds of thousands of levs, this Programme, you are questioning that it provides for the most adequate measures. And fifth, de facto, you say to the people there: from the Ministry of Finance, we doubt that these regions can be developed by such methods and by this Programme, but we ourselves do not know how to do it. Is that what I'm trying to understand? I would like to tell you that the decades of neglecting the problems of the Northwest and all the other regions that I have defined just now are the reasons why these problems are there at the moment, which you, as I understand it, are calling unsolvable. Please make it very clear: what exactly are you going to do, you will do, because we are already halfway through the mandate? All the promises with which this government came regarding the people of these regions must be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u166	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Secretary, would you like a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Lilkov, it is normal as an opposition representative not to accept my position. But I really do not see in the proposed program as an economist, along with the team I have from good experts at the Ministry that it will give an easy answer to the questions you are asking. What needs to be done, and I said it in my speech, is that these measures of the Educational and Social ministries should be found to influence human resources in these areas: to create attractiveness for teachers, to create attractiveness for detention of children in school, to create attractiveness for investors. The construction of infrastructure is indisputable. And if you're asking me how much money we're going to pour into European funds and from the national budget, there are huge investments in these areas. But believe me, I am convinced, and I am not afraid to say it from this tribune, because here often saves the unholy truths, if we make a good path at that end, just as quickly as those who pass transit, will not be carried out and increase the economic potential of this region. I continue to insist and believe that priority for targeted impact in these areas should be measures relating to education, social protection and social integration, and not so much that we are doing and will be making an investment in infrastructure anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance, is from the MP Rumen Gechev on capital expenditure. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Goranov, my question is brief and clear. In the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, published in the Official Journal. 93 of 5 December 2015, in Section II "Costs', p. It is pointed out that the capital expenditure in 2016 should reach 2 billion. 511 million. Eight hundred and £900. £900. How much of this amount has been spent so far and what is the structure of the capital expenditure made? In this regard, how are capital expenditure linked to the government's economic development programme? Since I want to make a commitment and continue my question, colleague Goranov, you are absolutely right that the structure, the amount of these costs depends on what they are realized in and how they are linked to the economy. You are absolutely right that if money is poured out in any form, including under capital expenditure for infrastructure, it is really important who will be moving on these highways. It's not just transiting. Our economic question, my colleague, is whether these highways will move only imported goods - 80 percent of the food products are imported into Bulgaria or will Bulgarian goods move? Here I agree with you. But it is related to an answer to the question of capital expenditure. And to make it easier for the viewers, this year you included colossal capital expenditure, which at first glance is an excellent two and a half billion against five hundred or six hundred million in the previous two or three years. So after we warned you that this ambitious programme clearly has other objectives and not for capital expenditure, say: from two and a half billion to date how much you spent, what and what are you going to do by the end of the year with these two and a half billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope not spectators! On 30 June 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance provided detailed information on the expenditure spent in the part of the capital expenditure on the state budget for the first five months of this year, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly from an earlier debate. However, given the limited amount of time at my disposal, it will briefly provide information on the amounts spent on the state budget in the share of capital expenditure according to the reporting data from the monthly accounts by May on gross indicators. The capital expenditure incurred on the state budget, I stress, which is only part of the consolidated fiscal programme, amounts to 207,5 million by May 2016. It should be noted that administrative procedures and the calendar for investment projects concentrate most of the capital expenditure in the second half of the year, in particular in the last quarter. For these reasons, absorption during the first months of the year is traditionally low. For the first five months of the year, the main part of the capital expenditure is spent in the following directions: 30 million. lv. capital transfers are provided to Bulgarian State Railways. 55.7 million are made available to the National Railway Infrastructure Company in relation to the funds planned in the state budget under the priority of the Government Programme for the improvement of the technical and financial situation of the commercial companies and the state undertakings of the transport system; 55.7 million are provided to the National Company (Railway Infrastructure) for railway repair projects and the facilities for maintaining the speed, modernization, restoration and restructuring of railway lines and terminal stations, as well as for co-financing of infrastructure projects under the Operational Programme (Railway Infrastructure); 41.1 million are spent on the construction of a temporary impeding facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border from the districts of Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol; 34.6 million are reimbursed costs of operators for investments made by them in the national and energy infrastructure for the implementation of the national investment plan; 13.8 million. lv. are used for reconstruction, construction and completion of the water infrastructure, for reconstruction and construction of a Republican road network and for payment of benefits under estranged procedures; 32.3 million are mainly used to improve the material and technical base, to purchase fixed tangible assets and others from the authorising officers on the state budget. And we note with dissatisfaction that the degree of implementation of public investment is falling behind. I would like to assure you that this is not, first of all, either a targeted government policy or measures of the Finance Ministry for fiscal repressions. I have confidence from colleagues who manage operational programmes that the rate of absorption of European funds, part of which also represent the capital costs of the consolidated fiscal programme, will be greatly accelerated in the second half, but what I can assure you in conclusion is that the reduced investments related to the launch of the new programming period are compensated and will be compensated as far as possible within the framework of the government's investment programme. Unfortunately, at this stage for procedural reasons, some of these investments fall behind. I hope the next time I answer that question, I report much larger nominal numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mr. Gechev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Goranov! Today is a difficult day for the management of the Ministry of Finance, although it is not primarily responsible for the capital expenditure. We have always sought to be objective in terms of revenue, and I would like to congratulate you, colleague Goranov, that you have an increase in revenue on certain items. Thanks to measures before and now, but the fact is that there is such an increase, and it is your personal merit and your team's. But the truth! I would like to draw attention to two and a half billion capital expenditures, which sounded good, unheard of in Bulgaria's budget for stimulating the economy, you are telling us that to date you have spent 207 million. This is an economic crime against the Bulgarian economy, ladies and gentlemen! You deprive the Bulgarian business through a public-private partnership of two billion and something! Is that an arithmetic error, you bet two and a half billion, and you're spending 207 million, or is that something else? We warned you it was something else! Obviously you are saving this money not for investment in the Bulgarian real economy, but for something else! Because if you have positive results for some of the items of budget revenue, do not brag about the balances at all. Because even the unbiased when he sees... Yesterday you publish, colleague Goranov, data that you have three and a half percent budget surplus. Isn't that right? It's a tragedy! It's a three-and-a-half surplus because you didn't spend two billion and a hundred million! It's not a plus! That's ten minuses in GERB's program. You hold the money and deprive Bulgarian companies through public-private partnership to spend this money. Furthermore, to tell you the effect of two and a half billion, colleague Goranov, is greater than the European funds. Three billion goes into your budget this year, right? About a billion is our contribution....................... two billion.................................................................... However, through public-private partnership there are elementary accounts: with a coefficient of 3 "4" those 2 billion that you did not invest would have brought between 4 and 6 billion additional to the Bulgarian economy, including through private investment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So the news is tragic, there's no way you guys can spend two billion and something next month unless you're handing them out to the lottery. This is a big foul of the government, but at least get together with your colleagues and try some of these huge funds to return to the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u175	Dear Mr. Gechev, the investment process is not a public-private partnership, but it is a spending of public resources. In this sense, I take it that we are behind, but the information I provide is only on the basis of paid funds. If your question included the volume of contracts concluded with the start-up, the answer would be very different. I can provide this to you in addition, and it is significantly different from the nominal information on the reported costs. Therefore, I stress again the expectations and if you open, and you work well with statistics, previous years, you will see that indeed, unfortunately, and because of the complexity of the investment structuring process, and because of the complex award process in the best and transparent way of spending the funds there is a accumulation of investment costs in the second part of the year. The data I presented to you is for the first five months. I am sure that after the half-year the report is due to come out, the results will be significantly greater. I agree with one thing, and I have never speculated about the amount of excess revenue over expenditure in the first half of the year, I have always been sparing in my optimism, commenting that we have a significant cost gap. I believe that by the end of the year it will be relatively compensated, but in the amount you are quoting, we need to recall from the debate on the 2016 budget, there are some conditional costs linked to potential revenue from concessionation at Sofia Airport. If we remove them, your findings will not change substantially, but 600 million from this account we are talking about is conditionally linked to the realization of the concession at Sofia airport, respectively, after payment of obligations to the railway sector, which there are no guarantees that it will be able to fit into the calendar year. But if we remove that amount, your conclusions remain valid. We will continue to make efforts to implement the government's investment programme by the end of the year, without limiting them for fiscal reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov on the financing of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is about funding the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. According to a decree of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the methodological management regarding the budgetary aspects of the same Programme. It directs the actions of issuing state guarantees under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Development Bank provides financial resources for the implementation of the Programme, concludes contracts as a country for targeted financing and pays for the construction and construction works. In accordance with the Programme and the established methodology, the Bank maintains a public register of requests for the conclusion of target financing contracts with countries, the owners' associations and municipalities' associations, as well as a register of contracts to be financed. So far, how much and at what value have the targeted funding contracts been concluded and how much has been paid out by 31 May 2016? Unlike colleague Gechev, you can see that I have asked you for information about both the contracts concluded and the contracts paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u178	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I will begin by stating that according to Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2015 the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is the responsible authority for the implementation of the National Program. In this context, the MRDP provides support to the municipalities in the implementation of the Programme, monitor the implementation process and coordinate the grant financial assistance process. The same Ministry provides regular information to the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian Development Bank on the contracts for targeted funding under the Programme, information on the number of open public contracts, their indicative value, as well as information on the contracts concluded on the basis of the public procurement. The information we have from the MRDP, updated as at 14 July 2016, is for 1947 contracts covering the 9 million built-up area. 699 thousand. 912,77 square meters.. approximately 10 million. square meters. The amount of the contracts concluded for the implementation of the individual building renovation activities is currently at 258 million. 381 thousand. BGN 327. The amounts paid out under the targeted financing contracts are approximately 68.9 million. Currently, the information submitted by 162 municipalities on public procurement in June is being processed. The data will be ready by 20 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u181	That's good information, Mr. Goranov, but where is the promised billion? 256 million is not the billion that was widely proclaimed to the Bulgarian audience wishing to participate in the renovation. $68 million has been paid off so far. That's good. But I think that, as Minister of Finance, you are the principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank and the responsibility of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works tossed it at the very beginning of the municipalities to organise payments, enforcement controls, contracts and so on. Since I will follow your call not to spare ourselves bad news from this tribune, I will tell you a few things. The bank maintains such a register where a person entering the site can see for what value, which municipality, which association the contract is concluded with. I would advise you to tell your experts to see a flaw there - there is no column where you can see when the site has been completed. There's a sum that's been paid, which is promised. I have continuous signals from executive companies who have done their jobs, which, by the way, have concluded contracts with municipalities and associations. The municipalities are usually insured by some 30 days. There is a declaration to Annex No 3, where there is a 5 days declared period for the Bank to pay in exactly 5 days, when all documents accompanied by the declaration to be lodged... Unfortunately, the facts are different. Maybe now you can't answer my question: do you know what is the average period of submission of documents on completed objects from municipalities... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thirty seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u182	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u183	What is this average term compared to the payment made? First, this way, there's a delay of two, three months. Municipalities are placed in a confusing position for responsibilities they have to bear, and in fact the bank has to do it. Secondly, administrative corruption can develop very well, for which I have similar signals from companies, because the bank's employees stand in a position where they can blackmail these companies. If you put a column on them to record the date on which the documents were received, the employees, bringing in the information about the work they have done, will be pressured by this public information so that they don't allow themselves to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u185	Dear Mr. Genov, it is extremely unacceptable for us if there are justified assumptions or actual data on administrative corruption in the Bank for Development. I assure you that if you provide us with data, we will take account of them as quickly as possible. As a general comment, I can say that, apart from administrative, there are no other problems related to the implementation of the programme in terms of the possibility that the Bank for Development will as quickly as possible implement payment claims directed at it. In this sense, I have been informed and I am informed of some problems, especially in Blagoevgrad, which have been overcome. I cannot say that the problem was in the Development Bank, but this is not the format in which I can comment with you calmly. You are probably aware of the problem with Blagoevgrad region and especially with the projects on the territory of Blagoevgrad. I would like to assure you that we will consider carefully the recommendation on the publicity of work on these projects. In conclusion, because the wording of your question contained nuances, if I have to supplement the answer with nuances, on the basis of these contracts that we have between the Bank, associations and the municipality, but the associations are beneficiaries, the commitment of the Bank exceeds a billion. The amounts I commented on as contracts are under contracts between actual contractors of physical activities, the municipality and associations, and in fact continues to be traded within these projects. If we speak on the basis of commitments made by the Bank to associations and municipalities, the amount of the commitment already exceeds a billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the next issue by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the activities of the Executive Agency of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Executive Agency shall carry out audit activities in accordance with internationally accepted audit standards, which shall provide an objective assessment of the effectiveness of the financial management and control systems of EU funds and the correctness of expenditure declarations provided to the European Commission and, consequently, a reasonable guarantee that the main transactions are relevant and regular. My question is caused by a signal received to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, to which I am a member. It became known to the members with a very long delay. It raises doubts that there is an information eclipse on irregularities in the management of EU funds institutions, namely the audit body of Bulgaria in the face of the Executive Agency OSEU. Signals of a direct conflict of interest of the Executive Agency of the EUSR as a verifier were received at the same time as a beneficiary under the Operational Programme of the European Commission for the entire old programming period 2007. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. I hope you've met him. If not, please show some initiative. In relation to the above, please reply to me: is there any data arising from the current control of the Agency's activities, for violations in the performance of its control functions, and what measures have been taken to remove it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u189	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! And we've met the private case you're talking about. On it there was administrative procedure and verification by the Inspectorate of the Minister of Finance. The data exported by the person who referred to you are not confirmed. General comments The authorities concerned in the Member States of the European Union have been specifically established bodies under the relevant regulations. I'm not gonna spell them out. The Executive Agency is a Bulgarian audit body. Like all audit bodies in the European Union, in carrying out the audit work, the Agency shall apply European and national rules and methodology issued by the European Commission services. Its activity is highly regulated and controlled by the European Commission, to which the audit authority reports all the results of its audit work. Checks on each project shall be carried out on the basis of a statistical sample, applying uniform standard control sheets and a quality control system for audit work. They are all verified and approved by the auditors of the European Commission. The control sheets shall document the eligibility checks carried out, the physical implementation and sustainability of the projects. In order to ensure compliance of audit work with internationally recognised audit standards and guidelines of the European Commission, the audit authority shall implement an overall system of quality control measures for the performance of each audit. The results of the checks shall be reviewed from two levels of control. Certain checks shall be carried out again, any identified deviation and the amount of its financial impact in the expenditure certified during the year concerned shall be reviewed. The entire audit work, detailedly documented in accordance with the requirements, is subject to strict control by the auditors of the European Commission, who verify all the parameters of the statistical samples and monitor their objectivity. The audit authority shall report to the European Commission all results of its work, including irregularities identified, their individual financial impact, an extrapolated programme error, a level of cumulative residual risk and others. In 2015, the audit authority verified 222 projects in its statistical samples under the operational programmes. They checked 394 contracts, and for 171 of them, unfortunately, financial corrections were proposed. Everything listed shall be checked in detail by the auditors of three Directorates-Generals of the European Commission (European Commission), regional and urban policy; employment, social affairs and inclusion; maritime affairs and fisheries. From 2014 to May 2016, the auditors of the European Commission from the three Directorates carried out a total of 15 on-the-spot checks in the Audit Authority. The work of the Executive Agency has always been highly appreciated as an institution that works best in the National System for Management and Control of European Funds. Over the years, the national control authorities have also repeatedly carried out a check of the Executive Agency OSES, the Court of Auditors, ADFI, the Internal Control Directorate of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Finance. The result of the checks by both the European Commission and the national authorities shows that the Agency is carrying out its activities in strict compliance with the regulations of the Bulgarian legislation and the established internal rules. Evidence of the high quality of its work are also the special invitations made for the participation of auditors by the Agency in joint checks with OLAF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u191	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Goranov, the Agency referred to, is a secondary authorising officer of your Ministry. It should be checked regularly by the Ministry Inspectorate and the Executive Director of the Agency also. I'm concerned about the general treatment of your response. I expected a slightly greater specific because the signals include the signal that had arrived in the key information about poor organisation of work and inefficiency in the performance of the Agency's functions and its management for the period 2010 to the present time, which combined with different personnel purges, appointments of non-priced persons, the audit of the EU funds is appointed without a contest, there is an indication of the manipulation of audits and so on. This is important because not least, the Agency is responsible for the accreditation of all operational and other programmes for the new programming period 2014. We are worried and have received data that this is assigned to new employees without experience, neither in EU funds, nor in carrying out audit activities. In your answer, I did not hear any disprove these things. My request is, if you have indeed done an inspection and there is a report in this direction, to be made available to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds so that we can get to know it in detail because the accusations are serious enough. I am more concerned that they are sent to other institutions, and ultimately it is in the interest of all of us, including you and the Members of the National Assembly, Bulgaria to make the maximum use of these funds and not to lose. In your answer, I did not hear any disprove these things. My request is, if you have actually done an inspection and there is a report in this direction, to be submitted to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, so that we can get to know it in detail, because the accusations are serious enough. It worries me that they were sent to other institutions. After all, it is of interest to all, including you, and to the MPs Bulgaria to make the maximum in the absorption of these funds and not to lose. You understand that if the authenticity of such information is confirmed, it would also result in sanctions. I hope that, both before us here and before the Commission, you will convincingly provide us with information about the credibility or untrustworthyness of this data. The issue is extremely serious and I hope we will get a more detailed answer than general information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u193	My answer would be different if your question were different. Your question does not address and does not address an alert of a natural person, a former employee of the Agency, who probably has some personal vendetta with the current employees of the Agency. Your question was: is there any data arising from the ongoing control of the Agency's activities for infringements of its control functions, and what measures have been taken to remove them? On the occasion of the received specific alert, an inspection by the Inspectorate has been carried out which does not confirm the data exported in the alert. I have reported separately to you the results of the work of the Audit Authority. I conclude with the conclusion that the audit authority is the best not only at the discretion of the Minister of Finance, and not only because I am now the Minister of Finance, the best working unit of all units related to the management of the European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue - 11 from the parliamentary control programme to you by the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski on the activities of the Bulgarian Development Bank. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues! Priority and main focus in the activities of the Bulgarian Development Bank (BBI) is the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fulfilling one of its main objectives........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order for the models and practices introduced through the two subsidiaries to be more effective, they must be close to consumers. Under the provisions of the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, the Bank may open offices and branches. My question to you is this: in order to facilitate access to the products of the Bank of Micro and Small Enterprises, farmers, self-employed persons, craftsmen and others, will a branch network of the Bulgarian Development Bank be built in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Turnovallisky! The product policy of the Bulgarian Development Bank is focused on providing direct funding to small and medium-sized enterprises of over 300 thousand. lv. and indirect financing of small and medium-sized enterprises under contracts with commercial banks in Bulgaria. In indirect financing, it is important to note that the Bulgarian Development Bank has introduced a maximum amount of funding for a final client other than individual programmes, but not exceeding 3 million. lv. The products of the bank are distributed through the commercial banks and directly through the central office in Sofia and its five offices in the country. The Bank's total exposure to the real sector, directly and indirectly, amounts to 875,3 million. BGN and its assets amount to 1 billion. 615 million. This volume of activity is carried out with staff of about 150 employees, with the indicator loans and assets managed by one employee of the Bulgarian Development Bank being significantly more effective than commercial banks. Since its establishment, the BBI, as well as its subsidiaries, has been developing their policies and plans in compliance with the principle of supplementing the market, according to which the activities of the National Development Bank are ancillary to the market and should not create prerequisites for shifting commercial banks. The products and services provided by the BBI group are market-specific and are not intended to seize business opportunities from other commercial banks. The micro-financing institution "Jobs" EAD is an independent legal entity that carries out the tasks of providing micro-financing in the form of credit and leasing. For this purpose, a maximum single transaction threshold of up to 300 thousand has been set. BGN and priority for the company are funding up to 50 thousand. lv. The limits quoted are subject to ongoing monitoring and analysis in order to reconcile them with the conditions of the environment. It is necessary to specify that the products and services of the company are offered through its three offices in the country.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The company has currently provided funding worth 9 million. 219 thousand. BGN, with 321 leases and credit transactions concluded. The National Guarantee Fund, a company of the BBI Group, with a key role to support the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises by providing additional collateral for projects considered risky without guarantee of the fund, would not be of interest to commercial banks. The clients of the Guarantee Fund are the commercial banks in the country, as a result of the insurance from the Credit Protection Fund, they finance projects that would otherwise not receive funding. Since the establishment of the Fund, it has supported 3,900 small and medium-sized enterprises with a total volume of 940 million. To date, funding amounting to 173 million has been provided with the support of the Fund. 963 thousand. lv. In view of the BBI's analysis, as well as the review of good European practices of related banks and financial institutions, the European Union motivates us to refrain from building a branch network at this stage and its associated inevitably significant additional costs and investments. At the same time, the Bulgarian Development Bank is consistent in its policy of building representations with minimal staff, whose function to present the products of the group in the regions concerned and the processing of the transactions takes place at the plant. On this line, the Bank successfully focused its activities, taking into account the level of development of regional economies. An example in this regard are the last exposed representations in the northwestern region of the country... the cities of Montana and Vratsa. In summary and in conclusion, we do not believe that, in this volume of activity and assets, it is appropriate, instead of using the infrastructure of the other commercial banks and on-lending to provide the resource, to build a branch network for the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u198	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u199	Dear Mr. Goranov, thank you for your reply, but he will not calm down and delight our small and medium-sized business in the country that awaits the construction of such a branch network. The mediation of other commercial banks has costed the resource and increased lending opportunities for these enterprises and consequently have an impact on the volume and size of the resource that is thus provided. The Bulgarian Development Bank is more like an intermediary between financial institutions than a bank, working in this way. The expectations of small and medium-sized businesses are really to have a branch network and to have access to the services offered. This is enshrined in the Bulgarian Development Bank Act. In this way, we must also refute the concerns of the business that much of the resource goes not to small and medium-sized enterprises, in the big business it has been presented as information in the media that 70% of the bank's loan portfolio is in 20 large companies. There was only one thing that was out there, and I don't know why, and then the interest in it declined, maybe because some of those who were very interested in this problem. I think we owe this to society, and we have to, when we say something, go all the way. What are all these companies and this will be the bank's policy? In its statement and justification, it is precisely the Bank that says that the law does not restrict the Bank to finance large corporate clients. All this worries small and medium-sized businesses, and in this regard it was my question, but as far as I can tell, that's not gonna happen. Bulgarian small and medium-sized businesses and micro-enterprises will stay away from this funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. For the duplicate Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u201	Until now, Mr. Turnovallisky, I have quoted what the Bulgarian small and medium business has touched in order to finally make the summary that it has no access. We will also analyse and have done this analysis in the decision to open representation in different areas. As a general concept, the Bank aims to finance or intervene where there is a market shortage, whether it is a market shortage to finance small and medium-sized or not small and medium-sized enterprises. We know, for example, that there is a market shortage and when financing companies from the Military-Industrial Complex and the Bank has a good tradition of working in this regard. If it is assessed that it is economically more profitable not only for the Bank, as this should not be leading, but also for the small and medium-sized business, which still has access to its resources, but is financed by the fact that the opening of such a network would be profitable and would not result in the accumulation of unnecessary losses in the sector, it could also result in such a decision. My general comment was that at this stage the analysis does not give us the feeling that this is a good solution. This does not mean that the development of the market and the needs will not lead to such a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question provided for in today's parliamentary control that you have answered. We wish you a good job! We are going to answer current questions from the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first is from two MPs Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov and Mr. Iskren Vesselinov about the financial and economic situation of the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH). The asking will develop the people representative Iskren Veselinov. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, our questioning is, of course, provoked by the very complex theme of the financial situation of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the National Electricity Company (NEC). Thanks to the systematic efforts of the current majority and of the Council of Ministers, of course, last year we observed a stabilization of NEK, thanks to the overall policy in the sector. Stabilisation which, unfortunately, is too fragile in view of many inherited problems and many problems that have been happening in recent days. In this regard and in view of the fact that not all the facts surrounding the last contracts that have been concluded, loans that have been taken over by companies in the holding, we are making this request with the idea of making this information public. We would like, first of all, to understand what is the amount of interest payments on an annual basis under the BEC's syndicated repayment loan with the so-called U.S. power plants? What is the penalty interest and what is the integrated economic result of this energy move? What are the plans to compensate for NEK's new increased costs of indexing energy prices from these plants set out in their commercial contracts? Secondly, information was published in the media about the debt of Sofia to Bulgargaz. We would like to know whether this is a fact and whether it is a co-ordination with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, because in recent changes in Sofia's prices, it was intended to have one reserve, one buffer in view of payments for this debt? In 2018, the maturity of a 500 million bond loan is due. EUR which BEH issued in 2013 on the Irish exchange. This loan, along with the loans that have just been withdrawn, forms a huge debt time, to which, unfortunately, we must now add the 550 million from the NPP of Belene. In this regard, what is the strategy of the political leadership of energy to solve this severe economic problem and what alternative scenarios are considered to stabilise the Bulgarian Energy Holding?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. For an answer, Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, dear Mr. Karakachanov, in early 2015 the Bulgarian government began intensive negotiations to change the conditions imposed by the long-term agreements for the purchase of electricity from the so-called American power plants in the Marishka Basin in 2001. In this respect, agreements for amendments to the Energy Purchase Agreement were signed on 14 August 2015 and the availability price was reduced by 14% for Ay and S-3S Maritsa-East 1 (US-3S) by the end of the contract... 2024 and 15% again by the end of the contract.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In numerical terms, the effect of the so agreed price reduction for availability under the two energy purchase agreements will be over 96 million per year or nearly 1 billion for the remaining period of operation of the agreements. Both agreements to amend the agreements for the purchase of electricity provide conditions for their entry into force, one of which is the payment by the National Electricity Company of the due payments of NEK to the TPP In this regard, in September 2015, the Bulgarian Energy Holding launched a procedure for selecting funding institutions to provide financing for the payment of NEK's debts to the two plants. After successful completion of the negotiations, a consortium of banks was elected, with which BEH signed a bridge financing contract of 535 million. Euros. The loan was granted without State guarantees and without collateral. This is a bridge financing loan that is linked to bond issuance of the same or larger amount. The bonds should be distributed up to 12 months from the acquisition of the loan, respectively BEH must issue a bond issue and, with its revenues, repay the debt to the selected creditor. It is important to clarify that as a cost the National Electric Company will only take into account the amount of interest of the loan, but not the amount of principal of the loan. With regard to your question about the amount of interest, I would like to clarify that the financing contract contains confidentiality clauses which restrict the public disclosure of this information. What I could say is that the average interest rate for the maximum period of bridge financing is approximately 3.8% and the average penalty rate for non-payment for the maximum period of bridge financing is about 1% above the basic. In addition, I would like to add that the annual savings for NEK, as a result of re-negotiation of long-term contracts with US power plants, are greater than the annual costs of interest on the loan granted which NEK would pay. The average savings for the National Electric Company per year will be over 96 million. BGN, while interest payments will amount to about 58 million. lv. This means that the annual savings will amount to approximately 40 million. lv. and not less than 300 million until the remaining period until the end of the long-term contracts. It is also important to say what the financial consequences of the reverse scenario would be, and they are that the Bulgarian country, the National Electricity Company, would owe approximately 3 billion. lv. penalties in the event of non-payment of long-term contracts with both power plants. Of course, special bets on the claims of the National Electricity Company, which could be activated in the event of non-compliance with the commitments NEK has under these contracts, should not be forgotten. With regard to your question about the obligation of Sofia's Toplofication it should be borne in mind that in 2015, as well as until now, Bulgargaz is not forgiving claims from Sofia's Toplofication. As of December 31, 2015 the claims of the "Bulgargaz" by the "Toplofication Sofia" amounted to 146 million. $863,000. BGN, compared to their value at 31 December 2014 of 189 million. 491,000. lv. were reduced by 42 million or 22.5%. Over the years, in order to ensure the liquidity of the Bulgarian energy holding company and the Bulgarian energy holding company and the Bulgarian energy holding company, contracts have been concluded for the sale of the claims of the Bulgarian energy holding company. In 2015 an agreement was signed between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Sofia Toplofication, which arranged the order and the way to repay the debts of Sofia Toplofication to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which amounted to 500 million. lv. The agreement also lays down a clause under which, when concluding a concession contract between the Sofia Municipality and a third party, the latter should partially repay the liabilities of the BECH at a rate of not less than 200 million. lv. In conclusion, I would add that in essence the Bulgarian Energy Holding is a financial holding company that unites the assets of large state-owned energy enterprises. One of the main objectives of such a type of company is to diversify sources of funding through the use of external capital. The participation of capital markets by issuing debt and financial instruments is a standard practice that contributes to ensuring fresh cash resources both in the balance sheets of the companies concerned and in the economy of the country concerned. By means of the debt issues, the drawn syndicated bank loan was achieved to defer the financial burden in the sector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The strategy of the Ministry of Energy, related to the resolution of one of the most ill and long-delayed problems in the sector, namely financial imbalances, is embedded in the government programme and it is related to the introduction of full liberalisation of the electricity market, which will enable the market sector to develop and will, respectively, eliminate the possibility of accumulation of financial deficits in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u206	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You are entitled to two supplementary supplementary questions. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Of course, I am far from questioning the benefits of this loan because, indeed, in energy, things had to be unstopped in some way and this was a good solution. The point was that, at least until now, I, and I suppose a large part of the society, had no information about the price of this loan, which in view of the data you exported, was satisfactory. The additional questions to you are related mainly in two directions. First of all, today we met from the media about the start-up road show to raise the new loan on the territory of the British Isles. My question is: what are the indications of interest in this direction, do you have such preliminary views, and do we not need some backup option in view of Britain's decision to leave the European Union? My second supplementary question is related to the equipment of the NPP "Belene" because in recent days we have heard many options from privatization of the project to the continuation of the project, sales of equipment. Many things have been said, and at the same time. My question is: is there a clear concept on which of the options is being followed, is there at the level of political leadership or at the corporate level communication between the Bulgarian and Russian countries, in which we have set out the options that are satisfactory for us and possibly any counter opinions on our options?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. You're welcome to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Veselinov, really, as was announced in the media on Monday, from July 18 will actually start the road show, related to the sale of the bridge financing, which the Bulgarian Energy Holding withdrew. As you know, we have consultants in terms of this bond. They have done the necessary analysis with regard to the markets and believe that now is a good time, the person is also an investor's interest, so we hope that this road show will be successful at this stage. Of course, it's all coming up. Within the next week, we will have information on this issue and, of course, we will inform you in a timely manner. With regard to the second supplementary issue related to NPP.Belene....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As we have been able to mention several times, there are not many options, there are several. We work and analyze each of these options. The Arbitration itself in its decision clearly indicated that one option was that the National Electricity Company would pay the amount of 550 million. EUR and therefore to acquire this equipment, the other option is together "Atomstroyexport" and the National Electric Company to sell the equipment to a third party. And the other option that we consider and which we do not reject as a possible option, this is the possibility that this project will be separated into a separate project company and sold through the Privatization Agency. Of course, at present we still have no final option in terms of which of these options would be the best. We are analyzing, we are doing the necessary drilling with other experts in this area, and I hope with a joint effort of all to choose the really best and most sparing for Bulgaria and the National Electric Company option. In this regard, I would like to say that I will rely very much on the Bulgarian MPs for this because this is a topic that concerns absolutely all of us. This is a topic that is committed if you go in the direction of restarting this project, engages generations ahead. We must have a clear vision, we must know what follows, there must be predictability and such a decision must be taken by consensus. When we have clarity in terms of such a decision, we will come to Parliament, we will announce it and we will want the support and opinion of everyone, of every political party that is parliamentary represented. With regard to communication with our partners from the Atomstroyexport, yes, we have the necessary communication, we have conversations, there was a meeting just two days ago the CEO of NEK came back, was in Moscow, there were talks. I am also in communication with Minister Novak and we are in contact with Rosatom. We have the necessary communication, I hope indeed in the framework of a constructive dialogue that we will come to a solution that is mutually beneficial for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. For treatment in two minutes, please, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope to be shorter. I am pleased with the Minister's reply, as it is really necessary to seek a rational approach to some problems that have unfortunately been accumulated, perhaps decades. The short straw has been pulled by this team because in the end too many payments are happening exactly within the last months, literally. In any case, Bulgarian energy needs a serious consideration of its resources, its potentials, so that it is what it has always been, the basis for the country's modern economic development. In this spirit, I believe that whether or not it would go towards building the new nuclear power in Belene, whether in Kozloduy, in any event, in an economically justified logic in the construction of such a project, it would be supported by everyone in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Georgi Nedev on a World Bank report on full liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria. Mr Nedev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u213	Dear Minister, colleagues! In the past 2015 was a year of legislative amendments and of actions by the executive, directly involved in the management of energy, which guaranteed the reduction of the deficit in the energy system of the Republic of Bulgaria. One of the major achievements of the reform was the start of the liberalized energy market at the end of 2015. The other important achievement, this was the start of the independent energy market, which gave us reason to believe that the foundations have already been laid. In this regard, the liberalisation of the market to be done in the right way, in August 2015, was concluded a consulting contract between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the World Bank. The subject matter of the contract was the preparation of a model for liberalization, analysis of the financial situation and the legal basis in the energy sector to move towards full liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria. I would like to point out that, based on the information we had back then, the deadline for implementing this contract was six months. We all expected at the end of February the treaty to be implemented and the World Bank's final report to be made available to the public for a broad discussion in the spring of 2016. This is your initiative, by the way, and I congratulate you on that. At the same time, however, the fact that so far the final report is not available to the MPs at least. Therefore, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: are there insurmountable obstacles before the World Bank to prepare the final report and can you commit to a deadline within which the report will be available to the MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u214	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Nedev, the question you are asking is very important and very relevant. Indeed, one of the most important priorities of the government in the sector is related to the introduction of full liberalisation of the electricity market. With the completion of this process, one of the main problems in the Bulgarian energy sector will be overcome in practice, namely the financial imbalance and the opportunities for the accumulation of financial deficit in the system. For this reason, as we realize that this is a very complex process and must be regulated in such a way that the final result really will be successful because it is extremely important for the development of the sector, and given the importance of the sector for the whole economy, this could, if we make a mistake somewhere in this process of full liberalisation, have an impact on serious sectors of the Bulgarian economy. Therefore, as you mentioned, we have signed a treaty with the World Bank. The Bulgarian Energy Holding signed a consulting contract with the World Bank, which has a commitment to prepare the financial model for full liberalisation of the electricity market, as well as to identify the specific steps to draw up a detailed road and time map that will give clarity at what stage of time exactly what should be taken as an action. The World Bank presented a preliminary report in December 2015. This report was analysed on our part and accordingly we had serious comments, we also had serious differences in terms of one of the most important issues, which was related precisely to the determination of the amount of the tariff deficit. You know that this is the essence of the problem of liberalisation. This required some delay because this financial model had to be updated, the adjustments that we had made had to be made, because there was some uncertainty about certain processes in terms of certain output data that the World Bank had used and those that we were practically dealing with. So that's where the first delay in this process actually started. At present, the World Bank has submitted a draft final report. On this final report, the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Ministry of Energy reiterated our opinion on it. I hope that this opinion will now be reflected in the final report of the report, and I very much hope that somewhere by next Friday, by the end of next week, we will have this final report. In addition, as the World Bank has confidentiality clauses and the report can be, so to speak, made public under certain conditions that the World Bank sets out, we have requested that a summary be provided with all the parameters of the financial model and a detailed roadmap that we, once provided, will immediately want to discuss it, in the first place, in the Energy Commission and then present it for a broad discussion with all the parliamentary parties represented. This is an extremely important and responsible process. I would like to assure the Bulgarian MPs that we will do what is necessary in order for this model to be discussed by everyone, to have consensus on what the financial model should be, what the parameters of this model are, because this should be a sustainable model that will ensure real predictability of the sector and financial stability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u216	And thank you, Madam Secretary. You're running out of time, but this is an extremely important topic. Mr Nedev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u217	Dear Minister, I have asked this question because the questions on it have already been enough, that is, the public interest in this thing has become very great. All of us who, to one extent or another, deal with the energy issue, know that it is extremely important to provide the final version of the report, because after it, we will all have a lot of work ahead of us - legislative amendments are forthcoming, amendments are likely to be made in the sub-legal legal framework, many actions are to be taken by those who direct the energy sector. So from now on, we've got work to do, at least I'm thinking, at least a year. That is, our hopes were that for this regulatory period we will be able to introduce the result of this report, so to speak, in our direct action. This has not happened, and I believe that, as early as the next regulatory period, we can fully introduce all the amendments that concern the Bulgarian energy sector, the liberalised market and the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and the work of all the entities in this process, which will naturally last for years, but its foundations could be realized, at my discretion, no earlier than the new regulatory period next year. We've got a lot of work to do. The second motive to ask you this question is that it began to form a public opinion that someone has not done their job. When there is such a contract, and particularly consulting, there are two parties to this contract, the delay or it is the fault of one party, which is the World Bank in this case, or it is the fault of the Ministry because someone has not given the appropriate recommendations in time and the Bank does not know how to continue its work. I am pleased, indeed, that you have given assurance that by the end of this month we will have the version of the report. That's good, and from then on, we have a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u218	Thank you, Mr Nedev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Nedev, first of all, I would like to thank you for your understanding and to express my full agreement with the opinion you have expressed that from now on we have really much work to do. The fact is that there is some delay in the World Bank report, but believe me, it is much more important if we have to delay by a month, two, three, but just the model needs to be really mirrored and very justified, because this is practically a prerequisite for the development of the sector from now on. So we preferred to ensure the comfort of the World Bank to work for a longer period of time, because indeed, during the entire course of the contract, we had a continuous dialogue with them, they sent information, they analyzed, they returned, then we refined that information again, but every figure is important, everything is important. I'm only giving you one example. The latest amendment of the Energy Act, which was related to the Electricity System Security Fund and the inclusion of the additional power system operator and of the Bulgartransgaz, also affected and changed the model. So this has required further revision of the model, already in view of the new legislative changes. By presenting, I hope, very soon, the model, first, to the Energy Commission, and then, of course, to all colleagues in the Bulgarian Parliament, you will really see that it is a very serious work. I also hope that the legislative changes that we will prepare together will indeed be successful and that we will continue to stabilise the sector in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u220	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev and Ivan Ivanov. They are on the same subject, which is why they have a common answer. The first person will ask his question Mr. Velizar Enchev about vicious practices in the plant. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u221	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, in the factory "Vidahim" "Vidin," there are established vicious practices that lead to the drain of tens of millions of levs from the National Electricity Company. Although the main activity of the privatized company "Vidahim" AD is the production of tyres, the plant actually produces electricity purchased by the state at preferential prices. In the last nine years, it hasn't been a secret. The revenue from the electricity sold is nearly 370 million. BGN, which represents 95% of the revenue from the sale of production of the company in total around 391 million. lv. After the four largest employers' organizations in Bulgaria condemned this vicious practice of "Vidahim" do you not believe that the company, which, according to documents, produces tires, has an unnaturally large share of electricity produced from a factory plant? What is even more disturbing is, Madam Minister, that in the last two years NEK has paid more than 180 million to Vidahim. BGN and, at the same time, only 4 million workers are paid for salaries. lv. What measures, Madam Minister, will your office take to end this practice of Vidahim? Do you plan, which is very important, to cancel the contracts for the purchase of electricity from the company? And more importantly, are you planning a revision of a privatisation deal, including the withdrawal of ownership by lawbreakers? I mean, of course, launching such a procedure for revision of the privatisation deal, which would be a very good precedent in the vicious Bulgarian economic system, where, as a result of this privatisation, they were destroyed, in the literal sense of the word, vitally defining industries in the Bulgarian economy and most of all......................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u222	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning infringement by the company Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question is about violations by the company "Vidahim" AD in the sale of electricity. Dear Minister, in March of this year specific data on vicious practices were published in the public domain in Vidahim, related to the long-standing sale of electricity at almost double price through so-called high-effect combined production. For reference, I would like to recall that the company was privatized in 2002 for the amount of $1 against obligations for specific investment commitments. Since its privatisation, the company has not started mass and year-round production of tyres, but has only directed efforts to produce and sell electricity. In recent years, the speed of Vidahim is around 170 million. BGN, mainly from the production of expensive electricity. The four nationally represented employers' organizations opposed this vicious practice. On the part of the employers' organisations, specific figures have been cited for the last nine years after the privatisation of the company, showing that the revenues from the sale of electricity are nearly 370 million. lv. or almost 95% of the revenue from the sale of the company's production during that period. My specific question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there any evidence of offences committed by the company What action would the state take to protect its interests in cases such as those where a wicked scheme has been proven to damage the National Electricity Company's budget with millions of levs in recent years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for a general answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Enchev, Dear Mr. Ivanov! It is part of a commercial company registered in the Commercial Register of the Registry Agency, which is the subject of its activity - production of electricity and heat, is entered in second place after the production of polyamide fibres and resins, and technical fabrics, tyres for vehicles. The thermal power plant is a plant plant that meets the needs of heat for the production of pneumatic tyres, therefore the heat is for own consumption and the electricity is sold to the National Electric Company. The activities of Vidahim in the production of electricity and heat are licensed by the former State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of 27 November 2002 for a period of ten years. By decision of 21 February 2012 of the SEWRC, the duration of the licence issued to the company was extended for another 10 years. In accordance with art. 162, para. 1 of the Energy Act, the public supplier and final suppliers are obliged to buy from producers connected to the network concerned, the quantity of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, registered with a certificate of origin at preferential prices up to the amount of quantities determined by the decision of the KEWRC to determine the individual price of installations. In order to regulate the activity in energy, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, with its price decisions, shall determine for each producer with cogeneration preferential individual electricity prices as well as marginal heat prices. The prices are set for price-forming elements referred to in the same decision. In addition, on the basis of the Ordinance on the issue of a certificate of origin for electricity produced in a combined manner, the KEWR issues to producers with cogeneration certificates of origin for electricity. In other words, these are processes which under the Energy Act and by law are subject to regulation by the KEWRC, respectively the Ministry of Energy cannot influence them. By virtue of a legal obligation entered into with art. 162 of the Energy Act and the Ordinance on the issue of certificates of origin of electricity produced in a combined manner, the National Electricity Company as a public supplier has concluded a contract for the purchase of net active electricity from high-efficiency heat and electricity production with Vidahim with the period of validity of Decision No 25 of 30 June 2015 for a regulatory price period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. This Decision has determined the amount of high-efficiency electricity to be bought by the public supplier. The reported data for the last two years show that the National Electricity Company, under its obligations as a public supplier, has paid to Vidahim for purchased electricity amounts of total amount of 58 million. 80,000. £739. with VAT included, including in 2014 35 million. 83,000. BGN 169. and in 2015 22 million. 997 thousand. BGN 570. I would like to add here that a number of measures have been adopted over the last two years to limit support for cogeneration only to installations and quantities where this support meets the public interest. In addition, it should be noted that in 2015 changes were made to art. 162 of the Energy Act, which limits the costs of the public supplier for the purchase of electricity, which is not proven to be highly efficient. The Ministry of Energy subsequently adopted the relevant amendments to the regulations for which it is responsible, including a completely new regulation on the conditions and manner of fulfilling the obligations of electricity producers from thermal power plants with cogeneration. As a result of the amended regime, the price period 2015 - 2016 thermal power plant to Vidahim supplied electricity to the public supplier only within the quota of 25 600 megawatt hours set by the KEWR, which was implemented until 11 August 2015. After that date, the National Electric Company had not purchased electricity at regulated prices by the KEWR. As you know, very soon, legislative changes have been made with regard to the conditions to be met by producers whose activity is subject to regulation by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In this regard, if............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 162, para. 1 of the Energy Act. And with regard to your question of revision of the privatisation transaction, including the withdrawal of ownership by the offenders of the Law, this competence is entirely the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The privatization deal for Vidahim was concluded in July 2002 and the sale was carried out by the Privatization Agency and published in the public register for the privatisation process of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u226	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u227	Madam Minister, I am partly satisfied with your answer. Why part of it? Since there is a well-thought-out privatisation carried out without paying the State the sums due under the contract. And just because this check has shown that everything is okay does not mean that a new revision of the privatisation contract cannot be launched. This affair, Madam Minister, starts with the very production of electricity and the SEWRC approves each month preferential prices of the purchase of the produced energy and, which is most disturbing, this is done only with documents presented and it is false for the production of electricity. That's how they were drained from her, as I said just now, over 180 million. BGN, which is a scandalous fact without consequences for the guilty persons. Here is the time to say in front of this large audience that a group of specialists in the industry, led by the former Director General of the state-owned company. Tosho Toshev referred first to the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, the Ministry of Economy, your Ministry of Energy, the DANS, the Ministry of Interior for these violations, but the result was almost zero. That is, in five years the issue has been dealt with twice in the Committee on Corruption of the National Assembly, which the National Assembly has also informed the Prosecutor General, but there is no development here at the moment. Therefore, I continue to argue that it is high time that the lawmakers in our company as an executive and as a Minister of Energy, put an end to a scheme that continues to rob the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian taxpayers, the National Electricity Company and if this does not happen, otherwise it will appear that a private company is stronger than the state and a vicious privatization contract stands above the laws and above the morals in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u228	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Second line. "The People's Representative Ivan Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, Vidahim is a typical example of an apparently unsuccessful privatisation deal, because the current state of the entire joint is more than shocking. There, on the rooftops, there are literally grown whole trees. I don't know the last time you visited the area this year, but that's true. At the moment, apart from not producing car tires and electricity, Vidahim also made huge cuts to the people who worked there. This has had an extremely difficult impact on one of the poorest regions in the country, such as the Vidin region. I am pleased that amendments have been adopted in the Energy Act, with which this wicked scheme has been terminated, but I am not satisfied that in the years back, an obvious wicked scheme will remain without consequences and I appeal to you to be held responsible for all those years in which electricity has been purchased at this almost double price. Because this led to this huge deficit in NEK, which now practically Bulgarian citizens have to pay. So I expect preventive action from you for the time back in which the model of pricing of the purchase of electricity in Vidahim is working for the time in which these excessive amounts have been paid and therefore can, through retribution for such transactions, be put an end to the damage of the National Electricity Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u230	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u231	Thank you. Dear Mr. Enchev, dear Mr. Ivanov! I have nothing left but to join what you expressed as an opinion. I really believe that the vicious practices that exist in Bulgarian energy for years and which are practically one of the reasons for bringing energy to this state must really be stopped. It was no accident that one of the government's first actions and, of course, you were to make several very important changes to the Energy Act last 2015. You remember that one of the first measures and one of the first legislative changes that we took in March 2015 was aimed at excluding those heat-electric companies that did not produce in a highly efficient and combined manner from the energy mix. Wasn't it, unfortunately, one of those examples? I personally had the opportunity to go there, on the spot, see and see what it was about. All these changes that have been made to the Energy Act, including the latest amendment to the Energy Act, I think they have already produced their result. As regards the revision of the privatisation transaction, this is indeed a matter which is entirely within the competence of another body, and the Ministry of Energy could not take specific account of it. But I believe that if there is any injustice and wicked practice, in all its forms it must be stopped and we must all unite our efforts not to do so again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-15.u232	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was the last answer to a current question in today's parliamentary control. Before closing the sitting, I shall announce the next regular plenary session on 20 July 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
