ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, according to our weekly programme today as point one, we are about to consider and vote: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES FOR MEMBERS OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL OF THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF CULTURE AND MEDIA AS WELL AS THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. The Committee on Culture and Media is the importer of the Draft Decision. Before that, two messages: On 6 April 2016 the Ministry of Energy in the National Assembly received a Report on the extent of implementation of the established policies and programmes and the costs of their implementation of the Ministry of Energy as at 31 December 2015. The report was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Energy Commission and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 April 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the Assembly. The draft decision will introduce us to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your kind attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a regular meeting held on 7 April 2016, the Culture and Media Committee discussed a draft decision adopting procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly. The preparation and adoption of the procedural rules shall be in accordance with art. 24, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television, art. 89, para. 1 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and in relation to the expired mandates of two members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly. "Mrs. Anna Hadjieva and Mr. Georgi Lozanov, and the need to elect new members. After the discussion and vote held, with 12 votes for the House, without the opposition and the abstention, the Committee on Culture and Media suggests to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 24, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television and Art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Proposal of candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly and presentation of their documents 1. Proposals for candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council shall be made by Members of the National Assembly or by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Culture and Media through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for members of the Electronic Media Council shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the professional recognition and public authority of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of the application to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (d) documents demonstrating that the applicant has experience in the following areas: electronic media, electronic communications, journalism, law or economics; (e) a criminal record; (f) a document certifying that the applicant meets the requirement of art. 25 of the Law on Radio and Television for the possession of Bulgarian citizenship. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals submitted under Section I, point 1, together with the documents referred to in Section I, item 1. 2 shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 5 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection All data in the documents of candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, shall be deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Culture and Media not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Culture and Media questions to the candidates to be asked. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia 1169, Pl. ==References====External links==*Prince Alexander I "No," Culture and Media Committee or e-mail: kkm@parliament.bg. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Culture and Media Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant concerned complies with the requirements for the appointment of a member of the Electronic Media Board. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The Committee on Culture and Media shall listen to the candidates admitted and the order shall be defined alphabetically according to their own names on a list drawn up after the submission of the proposals. 4. The candidates shall be submitted by the proposers within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of the specific preparation, motivation, professional recognition and public authority of the applicant. 5. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to present himself, including to supplement his professional biography data and to present his views on the activities of the Electronic Media Board within 10 minutes. 6. The Committee on Culture and Media shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council in alphabetical order by their own names of the candidates............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. Following the end of the questions under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 6 of all Members of the National Assembly to the candidate concerned, he shall reply to them within 10 minutes. 8. The President of the Committee on Culture and Media shall set out in summary the questions made by the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Culture and Media shall draw up a report from the hearing within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which the candidates are represented and submit it for consideration and voting by the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a list of candidates participating in the hearing, alphabetically arranged by their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate as a member of the Electronic Media Council. 11. The report of the Committee on Culture and Media from the hearing of candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media shall be made available to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly's website. IV. Selection of members of the Council for Electronic Media from the National Assembly quota 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present to the National Assembly a report on the hearing of candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The vote shall be clearly carried out through the computerised voting system. 5. Candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the National Assembly quota shall be subject to the vote consecutively, alphabetically, according to their own names on the attached list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If several candidates for a member of the Council for Electronic Media have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the most votes for the European Parliament has been elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for a member of the Council for Electronic Media receives the necessary votes, a re-voting shall take place involving the two candidates who have received the most votes for the Council. 9. In the event that two or more candidates have an equal number of votes, a new vote shall be held between them under the same conditions. 10. If none of the candidates for a member of the Electronic Media Council receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. A declaration to be filled out by candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council is followed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the just read procedure for selecting members of the Council for Electronic Media, a number of criteria have been set out to serve the right choice, however, I did not hear one of the very important criteria [[noise and lines]] , namely to make a preliminary check, to announce this preliminary check, because it is about an extremely important body that controls the media in the Republic of Bulgaria. The policy we follow in this National Assembly is clear: whenever it comes to choosing such important positions, it is necessary to have a preliminary check to be clear to the people they propose and to those who choose, what people are proposed and what people will be chosen. I am surprised that in the Commission this has not been made as a proposal and I propose as a point of view of the criteria to be met by each candidate, I think it was a point of entry: The applicant shall submit a document for verification of belonging under art. 27, para. 3 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. I think this is absolutely necessary, even more about the Bulgarian media, which already have a very vague owner. I propose that this be proposed to my fellow Members of the National Assembly, to be voted on and to enter as part of the criteria on which people will be elected in the Council on Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u5	Thank you. This can be done in the first Roman letter. Do you have any lines? Here you are, Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposed text by Mr. Metodi Andreev may be in a much more relieved form.. The list of candidates who submitted documents for participation in the competition will be given to him for approval. This way, we'll make it easier for the procedure. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u7	Any other lines? A hole, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u8	The hole will be as follows: cynicism and insolence are not virtues for this National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u9	Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u10	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I have a concrete proposal: the requirement not to be discussed by the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics to the candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media, as Mr. Metodi Andreev is the last person in this Chamber who can talk about morality and ethics, [[noise and lines]] After being convicted on a proposal by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for gross violation of the laws in the country, for interfering in the ministry of internal affairs at the Regional Directorate, if I am not mistaken. "Plovdiv, therefore Mr. Metodi Andreev should be one of these lustrated ones. He's the last person to make such suggestions. Mr. Metodi Andreev, you have the opportunity for a line to defend yourself to defend your moral position, as you are a man without morals in this Parliament, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u11	I'm making a remark about the insult of the MP, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u12	I accept the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u13	Let me remind you, I'm sorry we're discussing procedural rules, not Mr. Metodi Andreev's candidacy. Personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u14	Mr. Enchev, first of all, to tell you that what you say is not a verdict. Secondly, I want to tell you that it wasn't the Attorney General who convicted me. The Attorney General cannot condemn, for your information. The Attorney General can only blame him. In this case, he accused a MP of something that was not done. Find yourself a politically acceptable situation that has been realised. And you, Mr. Enchev, I can't understand all the time why you're jumping so much and why are you so affected by the checks for the former State Security? You've been declared a former State Security officer! It's an honor and dignity for you, isn't it? Let others who have the opportunity to be declared as such become famous. And they should brag like you. And they should be proud of their belongings. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has also said that belonging to State Security should not be considered as some incriminating circumstance. However, we, the ordinary Bulgarian citizens, and we, the MPs, want to know: whether these people were agents and officers of State Security and other communist security and intelligence services. We want to know because their influence in our modern state is disproportionate. And you, as an honest man, because you claim to be an honest man, should be distinguished. For example, you do not talk about the influence of your colleagues at UniBIT in government. You don't say anything, you don't say anything about it, and at the same time you're protecting some moral values. Unfortunately, Mr. Enchev, you are not the moral officer of this parliament. You've been thrown out of your group because you just don't deserve to be even a MP. You have not entered as MP Enchev, but entered as MP, part of the Patriotic Front. Here, such things happen around you, Mr. Enchev, and many others. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u15	Mr. Andreev, who should be the MP decides the Bulgarian voter. Mr. Enchev, you have no say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u16	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u17	I won't give you a personal explanation. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u18	That's a violation of regulations, how?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u19	Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u20	That's a rude violation of regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u21	Mr. Enchev, please step away from the parliamentary tribune. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Always makes a bad impression when I say an important thesis, then try not to disprove the counterargument thesis itself, as in the case of Mr. Metodi Andreyev's thesis, but to attack him personally for not liking his thesis is the problem! And since you have no counterarguments for the thesis that Mr. Metodi Andreev said, you begin to attack him personally. By the way, this is an old communist approach when something is uncomfortable, not attacking the embarrassing thesis itself, but attacking the person who was the person who announced it, told and asked. The question, honourable Members, is principled. It's not a lustration text. It's about when the parliament votes the various candidates, knowing in advance who is who. Let's know if he was a member, whether he belongs to State Security. I know that for a large part of the Chamber that he was and had a part in State Security, it would be an occasion to be supported even hotter and more enthusiastic. It's okay. We understand. We know that. For another part of the Chamber, this may be and will be a reason why such a candidacy is not supported. However, I ask you one thing: why do you not want us to make informed decisions, and why do you want us to decide blindly? It is for this reason that I strongly support the proposal of my colleague Metodi Andreev, and I believe that the entire group of the Reformation bloc will stand behind him, so that it becomes a practice for every important choice we make to be clear who the candidates are. Doesn't the practice make a bad impression on you? We select certain persons and months later, years later, it turns out that he was a collaborator of State Security, that he was an officer? Why shouldn't that be clear to the public in advance? And if this person has anything to say, based on this information, to answer to the media, to say it in hearings, to be clear from the process of nominations what people we choose and why we choose them. I know this topic will always be awkward for a part of you, but the issue is principled and this National Assembly has already imposed it as a practice. For a number of elections for the Fiscal Council, for the Commission for Protection of Competition, in the rules of procedure, such texts have been approved, so I call on the plenary to continue this good practice of making informed decisions and to support the proposal of my colleague Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have a line, Mr. Enchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u24	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u25	Are there lines? There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u26	Mr. Glauchev, you just committed a rude violation of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. I am making an official remark to you, even though all power is in your hands and you can do whatever you want. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You rudely trampled the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and completely stood behind your partner Metodi Andreev. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] You have an opportunity for a line, Mr. Andreev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u27	Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We have a proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev, which was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune, as a sub-paragraph of the draft decision to include the text that was read to you by him. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev. They voted 123 MPs: for 76, against 20, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. And now I am voting on the entire draft decision, as presented to you by the President of the Media Commission, MP Polina Karastoyanova, together with the newly adopted proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev. Please vote. 125 MPs voted: 105 against 10, abstention 10. The rules of procedure for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, and the procedure for election by the National Assembly have been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRANCOPHONE (MIF) ON THE COLLECTION IN THE SOPHIA OF THE STRUCTURE OF MOF AND HER PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES OF BULGARIAN TERRITORY AND THE FURTHER AGREEMENT WITH TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRANCE (MIF) WITH REGARD TO THE SOPHIA OF THE STRUCTURRY OF MOPH AND HER INVOILEGIES AND THE IMMUNENTS OF BULGARIAN TERRITORY. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of an MOF structure and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement thereto, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 23 March 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs" as follows: The main reason for the adoption of the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and of the Additional Arrangement thereto, signed on 9 October 2015 in Yerevan, is the new decentralisation policy, which is a priority for the Ministry of Defence and its member states. The Republic of Bulgaria signed the Agreement and the Additional Arrangement thereto during the meeting of the Standing Council of the Francophonie held on 9 October 2015 in Yerevan. In the preamble to the Agreement, it is stated that on 2 September 2004, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria agreed to establish and operate the Francophone Regional Centre for Central and Eastern Europe (FRECTION) in Sofia. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 The status of the structure of the Ministry of Interior established in Sofia is specified that the structure of the Ministry of Interior is of administrative subordination of the Regional Bureau for Central and Eastern Europe (RBCI) of the organization based in Bucharest. The Francophone Regional Centre for Central and Eastern Europe (FRAC) is located in this structure, subordinate to a programme manager, which is a decentralised programme of MOF. By decision of the institutions of the Francophony in Sofia can be created other decentralised programs. Article 5 "Immunity in execution' states that the Ministry of Defence and its assets, regardless of their whereabouts and the person holding them, benefit from immunity from enforcement: in this capacity they are exempt from any form of search, requisition, confiscation, placement, expropriation, and any form of administrative, executive, legislative or judicial coercion. Article 21.1 establishes that the Agreement and the Agreement referred to in Article 21.1. 2 An additional arrangement shall constitute the integrity of the agreement agreed between the Parties. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 of the Additional Arrangement is determined that the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria grants free of charge to the International Organisation of Francophonie the right to use for non-commercial purposes on the third floor of the building located on the street. "Leopold Sedar Sengor" No 1 in Sofia. The funds for the maintenance of persons working in the new structure of the Ministry of Defence and the overheads for the maintenance of the building are at the expense of the Ministry of Defence. Article 4, points (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (f) and (f) are replaced by the following: 1 establishes that the Additional Arrangement is concluded for 10 years and may be terminated by mutual agreement of the Contracting Parties. The provisions of the Agreement and the Additional Arrangement to it are in accordance with the Constitution, the Bulgarian legislation, the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and with the law of the European Union and do not require legislative measures with a view to their implementation. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which by 13 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 1 vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities in the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement thereto.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Mr. Manushev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please, on the basis of art. 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov and Maria Spasova "Director of the Directorate of Human Rights" in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u31	Colleagues, please vote. Vote 99 MPs: 96 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u32	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016. At its meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities in the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr. Svetoslav Stankov. The bill was presented by Mr. Stankov, who pointed out that the Agreement and Additional Arrangement signed on 9 October 2016 provide for a new decentralisation policy of the International Organisation of Francophonies by establishing structures on a regional basis, by changing the aim of strengthening the presence of the organization through the participation of the member states in the full set of programmes. The Agreement defines the structure of the organization established in Sofia to be directly subordinate to the Regional Bureau of Central and Eastern Europe, based in Bucharest, Romania. It is envisaged that the International Organisation of Francophonies, its assets, assets and the person holding them to enjoy immunity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as such they are free of any form of search, requisition, confiscation, placement, expropriation, and any form of administrative, executive, legislative or judicial coercion. In implementation of the Agreement and the Additional Arrangement to it, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria shall establish for the benefit of the International Organisation of Francophony for a period of 10 years free of charge the right to use on the third floor of a building located in Sofia, ul. "Leopold Sedar Sengor" (No 1, with the support of persons and the cost of maintaining the building is at the expense of the organization. The ratification of the Agreement and the Additional Arrangement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. In response to the questions asked, Mr Stankov pointed out that the International Organisation of Francophony is one of the largest international organisations in which more than 80 Member States belong. The Republic of Bulgaria has been a full member of the organization and is a member of it since 1991. In order to develop the bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of France, the promotion of French statehood and the linguistic presence of the Ministry of Finance provides to spend funds in the Republic of Bulgaria amounting to EUR 1 014 264. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes in favour of the Council, without the possibility of abstention and 3 votes in Sofia, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (IMF) on the establishment in Sofia of an MOF structure and its privileges and immunities of the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (IMF) on the establishment in Sofia of an MOF structure and its privileges and immunities in the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. We also have to hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. I ask a financier to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u34	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 24 March 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Finance and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Finance and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." There is a new decentralisation policy which is a priority for the International Organisation of Francophonies (MF) and its member states. The Republic of Bulgaria signed the Agreement and the Additional Arrangement thereto during the meeting of the Standing Council of the Francophonie held on 9 October 2015 in Yerevan. The objectives put forward by the Member States to participate in the activities of the Ministry of Defence are related to actions to establish MOF structures on a regional basis in order to strengthen the presence of the organisation through the participation of the member states in the full range of programmes provided for in the Strategic Framework of the Ministry of Defence. The Agreement recognises the legal personality of the Ministry of Defence and the resulting legal effects, provides premises for the functioning of the structure, establishes the status of the structure of the Ministry of Defence established in Sofia, regulates taxes, duties and fees, arranges publications and communications, as well as the privileges and immunity of the representatives of the Member States. Ratification is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para 1, p. 2, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 16 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Interior and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies on the establishment of the structure of the Ministry of Interior and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, No 602-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to take part in it? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Law on ratification the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory. Vote 88 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u36	Madam President, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we vote on the bill and on a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u37	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for two readings in a plenary sitting on this ratification bill. 90 MPs voted: 86 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u38	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MOF) on the establishment in Sofia of an MOF structure and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MOF) on the establishment in Sofia of an MOF structure and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (MF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory, signed on 9 October 2015 in Yerevan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u39	Thank you. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u40	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I voted for the House, and I will now vote for the House, that is to say, I will support. I just note that at the moment there is a campaign of honorary consuls who are accredited in Bulgaria and work to take away their red numbers and also the opportunity to recover their VAT both when buying cars and other purchases. At the same time, we are trying to give an international organisation just taken away from the honorary consuls privileges, including not to be criminally liable. I have always thought that the more international organisations, the more help and contacts between the countries is good. On the other hand, I could not understand even the motives when we looked at them in the Commission, what exactly crimes they intend to commit in Bulgaria in order to have to carry out criminal irresponsibility. I mean, we're releasing them from a lot of things we just took from the honorary consuls. I am going to vote on this, but let us exercise proper and principled policy. When, for a diplomatic person or a person enjoying such status, we decide that we must take away his privileges, why at the same time do we give it to another organisation that almost doesn't need this status, but only to testify to some important state, party and national treatment? Let's treat all organizations alike, because tomorrow others may be in line. Let us treat in the same way all those who are aligned with the Vienna Convention and the diplomatic status of persons, consuls, diplomats, organisations, bodies and so on. I'm going to vote on it, but let's think about whether one day we're going in one direction and the next day we're going in the other?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u41	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the second vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF). Vote 94 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE TUNISIAN REPUBLIC. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Ademov will introduce us. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Maria Kasserova, Director of the Department of European Regulations and International Contracts at the National Insurance Institute. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic was signed on 1 October 2015 in the Tunisian Republic. It was developed after consultations by both parties, respecting all the rules of international law and the principles of social security. The personal scope of the Agreement includes all persons who have been subordinate or who are currently subject to the legislation of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees or stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from the rights of those persons. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic will apply to the following groups of citizens: - persons employed who engage in employment in the territory of one of the Parties; - self-employed persons in cases where they work at their own expense in the territory of the other Party or in the territory of both Parties, enjoying the rights of the State in which they reside; - the persons employed who work in the territory of the two Parties or are employed in the territory of one Party and self-employed in the territory of the other Party, enjoying the rights of the country in which they reside; - civil servants, their equivalent persons and officials of diplomatic missions and consulates who have been sent to work in the territory of the other State, who enjoy the rights of the sending State. The material scope of the Agreement is limited to the pension legislation of the two countries. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agreement treats three types of state social security pensions: for insurance service and age, disability pensions due to general illness and inherited pensions calculated by the said two types of pensions. Tunisia is committed to paying old-age pensions, disability pensions and inherited pensions. In relation to the determination of pension entitlements to the Agreement, mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the legislation of both Parties shall be provided for. The insurance periods shall be aggregated to the extent necessary to obtain the right to compensation under the legislation to be applied. If periods of insurance under both laws coincide, they shall be reported only once. It is important to note that the periods acquired prior to the entry into force of the Agreement will also be respected. Another envisaged option is that relating to respect for periods of insurance completed in third countries with which each Contracting Party has an agreement. It should be noted that this is the hypothesis where these periods of insurance do not coincide with periods of insurance completed in the Contracting States. In calculating the compensation or pension as in Bulgaria, account shall be taken of whether it was necessary to sum up insurance periods or not. If there was no need to sum up, the National Insurance Institute of the Republic of Bulgaria shall determine the amount of the pension in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. If summation was necessary to acquire the right, the NSI shall calculate the amount only on the basis of the Bulgarian insurance periods and in accordance with the income on which the insurance contributions have been paid for these periods. Thus, the principle of direct calculation of the summation of periods of insurance with a view to acquiring the right is adopted. This scheme of calculating benefits is also adopted by the Tunisian side and their competent authorities. In the event that the legislation of one Contracting Party binds the granting of certain benefits to the condition that periods of insurance are completed in an activity subject to a special scheme or other specific conditions, only periods completed under the legislation of the other Contracting Party shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefit. Those periods shall be completed under the corresponding scheme or in the case of a corresponding similar activity. However, if the aggregation of insurance periods does not give rise to eligibility for compensation within the specific scheme, insurance periods shall be aggregated within the framework of the overall insurance scheme. The other parts of the Agreement shall contain standard provisions concerning the conclusion of an Administrative Agreement, procedural rules for the submission of applications, designation and payment of benefits, access to information and protection of personal data, administrative cooperation, entry into force and effect. The Agreement will enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month of receipt of the second of the notes by which the Contracting Parties notify each other by diplomatic means that all the requirements of their national laws for the entry into force of the Agreement have been met. This Agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period of time. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u44	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic was developed by both parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of generally accepted principles and standards of international social security law and was signed on 1 October 2015 in Tunisia. The Agreement shall be based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The material scope is limited to the pension legislation of the Contracting Parties to the Agreement. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, this is the legislation on three types of social security pensions: insurance service and age, disability pensions due to general illness and inherited pensions, calculated by them. In respect of the determination of pension entitlements to the Agreement, mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties shall be provided for. Periods acquired before the entry into force of the Agreement will also be respected. It is also possible to take into account an insurance period completed in a third country with which each Contracting Party has an agreement if those insurance periods do not coincide with periods of insurance under the laws of the two Contracting Parties in so far as it is provided for in the agreements with the third Party. Its personal scope includes all persons who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees and stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from the rights of those persons. The Agreement contains standard provisions on the conclusion of an administrative agreement, procedural rules for the submission of applications, fixing and payment of benefits, access to information and protection of personal data, administrative cooperation, entry into force and effect. The Agreement will enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month of receipt of the second of the notes by which the Contracting Parties notify each other by diplomatic means that all the requirements of their national laws for the entry into force of the Agreement have been met. Locked for an indefinite period of time. In the event of termination, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. Ratification is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para 1, p. 4 and 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u45	Thank you. We also have to hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, signed in Tunisia on 1 October 2015. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Galab Donev. The Agreement was developed by both Parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of generally accepted principles and standards of international social security law. It is based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. Its personal scope includes all persons who are or have been subject to the legislation of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees and stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from the rights of those persons. The material scope shall be limited to the pension legislation of the Contracting Parties to the Agreement. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, this is the legislation on three types of social security pensions: insurance service and age, disability pensions due to general illness and inherited pensions, calculated by them. With regard to applicable law, the Agreement lays down provisions on persons engaged in employment as employed in the territory of one of the Parties; as regards self-employed persons, in cases where they work for their own account in the territory of the other Party or in the territory of both Parties; on civil servants, equivalent persons and staff of diplomatic missions and consulates sent to work in the territory of the other Party. The Agreement agreed on the establishment of periods of insurance and the calculation of benefits. The Agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period and shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month of receipt of the second of the notes by which the Contracting Parties notify each other by diplomatic means that all the requirements of their national laws for the entry into force of the Agreement have been complied with. In the event of termination, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 6 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 13 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, with no objection and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Tunisia, No 602-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to take part? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome this Ratification from the point of view of the fact that nearly a year ago we posed this problem for Bulgarians living in Tunisia who are deprived of a lot of rights, including the recognition of their work experience. We are glad that this problem is solved, but I will sharpen your attention to the following fact: Bulgarians who work and live in Tunisia, mainly as teachers or teachers, continue to have the following problem, namely that they receive twice lower income than Tunisian citizens. This is based on contracts that were signed years ago by companies that do not exist in the Bulgarian state. I hope that the Foreign Ministry will make sure that the rest of the problems of the Bulgarians living in Tunisia are solved, apart from the recognition of the work experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u49	Any lines to Mr. Angelov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The ratification bill was adopted unanimously at first reading. Mr. Ademov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be voted on at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u51	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The procedural proposal shall be adopted unanimously. Second vote report, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u52	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic A single member. Ratifying the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic, signed in Tunisia on 1 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u53	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously and in a second vote. Moving on to the next point: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICIAL OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR SOCIAL SECURITY. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Dr. Ademov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Maria Kasserova from the National Insurance Institute. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev. The Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security was signed on 1 February 2016 in Brazil. It has been developed after consultations by both parties, respecting all the rules of international law and the principles of social security, as well as European Union law in this area.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The personal scope of the Agreement includes all persons who have been subordinate or who are currently subject to the legislation of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees or stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from the rights of those persons. The Social Security Agreement between Bulgaria and Brazil will apply to the following groups of citizens: - employees working in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties who are subject to this employment only to the legislation of that Contracting Party; - self-employed persons operating in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties subject to the legislation of that Contracting Party, even if they reside in the territory of the other Contracting Party; - the civil servants of one of the Contracting Parties and persons considered to be subject to the legislation of that Contracting Party in the administration of which they serve. On the basis of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, the Agreement provides that the members of diplomatic missions and consulates, as well as persons employed as personnel in the private homes of the members of those representations and consulates which are dispatched to the territory of the other Contracting State, are to remain subject to the legislation of the Contracting State which sends them. Exemptions are provided for seconded or seconded employed or self-employed persons for a period not exceeding 24 months. Exemptions are also provided for personnel of an international air transport undertaking and members of the crew of maritime transport, as well as by mutual agreement between the Contracting Parties. The material scope of the Agreement is limited to the pension legislation of the two countries. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agreement treats three types of state social security pensions: insurance service and age, disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident and occupational sickness, as well as inherited pensions defined by the listed three types of pensions. Brazil undertakes to implement legislation governing the general social security regime and the social security regime of civil servants on retirement insurance programmes for age survivors and invalidity. In respect of the determination of pension entitlements to the Agreement, mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of both Parties shall be provided for. If necessary, they shall be aggregated to assess the right to a pension. If a person does not meet the conditions for granting compensation on the basis of completed periods under the laws of both Parties, the Agreement allows for the aggregation of periods of insurance completed under the legislation of a third country with which either Party has a social security agreement providing for the aggregation of periods of insurance if those periods do not coincide. In the event that the legislation of one Contracting Party binds the granting of certain benefits to the condition that periods of insurance are completed in an activity subject to a special scheme or other specific conditions, only periods completed under the legislation of the other Contracting Party shall be taken into account for the granting of the benefit. Those periods shall be completed under the corresponding scheme or in the case of a corresponding similar activity. However, if the aggregation of insurance periods does not give rise to eligibility for compensation within the specific scheme, insurance periods shall be aggregated within the framework of the overall insurance scheme. Where the person fulfils the conditions for granting a pension under the legislation of one State without the need to sum up insurance periods, the pension shall be granted and paid exclusively under the legislation of that State in which the person fulfils the conditions for retirement. Where necessary, summation of periods of insurance in order to acquire a right to determine the amount of pensions has been adopted by the principle of proportional calculation. The Agreement also provides for periods acquired prior to its entry into force. The other parts of the Agreement shall contain standard provisions concerning the conclusion of an Administrative Agreement, procedural rules for the submission of applications, designation and payment of benefits, entry into force and effect. The Agreement will enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month in which each Party has received a written notification by diplomatic means from the other Party that the second Party has fulfilled all the requirements for the entry into force of the Agreement. This Agreement shall be concluded for an indefinite period of time. In the event of termination of the Agreement, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with its provisions shall remain in force. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u55	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u56	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. The Agreement has been developed by both Parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of generally accepted principles and rules of international social security law, as well as European Union (EU) law in this area, and has been signed in Brazil on 1 February 2016. The Agreement shall be based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of pensions, the applicability of only one legislation with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. The material scope shall be limited to the pension legislation of the Contracting Parties to the Agreement. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, this is the legislation governing the pensions of the state social security... Insurance and age pensions, disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident and occupational sickness, as well as the inherited pensions defined by them. The personal scope of the Agreement shall include all persons subject to or subject to the laws of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees and stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from the rights of those persons. The Agreement provides that, on the basis of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, the members of diplomatic representations and consulates and persons employed as personnel in the private homes of the members of those representations and consulates who are dispatched to the territory of the other Contracting State shall remain subject to the legislation of the Contracting State which sends them. The Agreement also provides for periods acquired prior to its entry into force. The other parts of the Agreement shall contain standard provisions concerning the conclusion of an Administrative Agreement, procedural rules for the submission of applications, designation and payment of benefits, entry into force and effect. It is envisaged that it shall enter into force on the first day of the third month following the month in which each Party has received a written notification by diplomatic means from the other Party that the second Party has fulfilled all the requirements for the entry into force of the Agreement. It's closed for an unlimited period. In the event of termination, any rights acquired by persons in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement shall remain in force. Ratification is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para 1, p. 4 and 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as it leads to financial commitments for the Republic of Bulgaria and concerns fundamental human rights. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for the resolution of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u58	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, No 602-02-11 The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev. The Agreement was signed on 1 February 2016. in Brazil and concluded for an indefinite period. It has been developed on the basis of the principles and norms of international social security law, as well as Regulation No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU, on the coordination of social security systems. The Agreement, respecting the principle of equal treatment of persons, governs exports to pensions, the applicability of the legislation of only one party with regard to the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. With regard to the material scope for the Republic of Bulgaria, this is the legislation governing the pensions of the state social security.. Insurance and age pensions, disability pensions due to general illness, occupational accident and occupational sickness, as well as inherited pensions defined by them. The personal scope shall include persons subject to or subject to the laws of one or both Contracting Parties, refugees and stateless persons and persons whose rights arise from those persons' rights. In this sense, it is envisaged that employees working in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties are subject to this employment only to the legislation of that Contracting Party. Self-employed persons operating in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties shall be subject to the legislation of that Contracting Party, even if they reside in the territory of the other Contracting Party. As regards civil servants, they shall be subject to the legislation of that Contracting Party in whose administration they serve. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 13 votes for.............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, points 4 and 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Debate regime. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we vote at first reading ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil for Social Security, No 602-02-11, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The agreement was adopted in the first vote. Dr. Ademov, please come in for a procedure under art. 77, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be voted on at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u61	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. Anyone who agrees with the procedural proposal, please vote. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u62	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security A single member. Ratified the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security, signed in Brazil on 1 February 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u63	Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The agreement has also been ratified at second reading. We move on to the last in today's agenda to the break, namely: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON THE SINGLE COURT OF PATIENTS, No 602-02-6. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u64	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. At its meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court. The bill was presented by Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova. The Agreement establishes a Single Patent Court for the resolution of disputes relating to European patents and European patents with unitary effect which is common to the Contracting Member States and which applies European Union law and respects its sovereignty. It is envisaged that the Court of First Instance shall consist of a Court of First Instance meeting in a Chamber of three Judges, a Court of Appeal sitting in a Chamber of five Judges and a secretariat, ensuring the effective implementation of the Agreement by establishing an administrative, budgetary and advisory committee. The Agreement lays down procedural rules applicable to proceedings before all separate courts and lays down the criteria for the selection of judges as well as a framework for their training. The ratification of Bulgaria's Agreement for the creation of a Single Patent Court will create conditions for improving the investment climate in Bulgaria by providing, both local and foreign business in Bulgaria, better conditions for protecting technological achievements and for carrying out innovation activities in Bulgaria. At present, the Agreement has been ratified by nine Member States of the European Union: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal and Sweden. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Court of Justice, with no objection, and 1 abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. There is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. If you don't mind, Mrs. Saveklieva, just in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. At its regular meeting on 6 April 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski Minister, and Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technical Harmonization and Consumer Protection. by the Patent Office of Kamen Veselinov Chairman, and Mariana Tsvetkova Director of Legal Directorate. The bill was presented by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski. The Single Patent Court, together with the established unitary patent protection, is part of the European Union unitary patent system project implementing Regulation (EU) No 1257/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2012 implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection and Council Regulation (EU) No 126/2012 of 17 December 2012 implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection with regard to the applicable translation rules. The creation of the Single Patent Court aims to ensure uniform practice in resolving disputes, improving the quality and effectiveness of the legal proceedings in the context of patent protection of European patents, European patents with unitary effect and certificates for their additional protection. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1 points 2, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Angelova, come on in. I'm really asking for a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. The Agreement on the Single Patent Court was formally signed by EU Member States, with the exception of Spain and Poland, in Brussels on 19 February 2013. within the framework of the Council "Competitiveness." Bulgaria signed the Agreement on 5 March 2013. The single patent court is the second pillar of the EU unitary patent system project together with the single patent protection established by Regulation (EU) No 1257/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2012 implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection and Council Regulation (EU) No 126/2012 of 17 December 2012 implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection with regard to the applicable translation rules. The Agreement on the Single Patent Court, together with those regulations, removes the current fragmentation of the patent system in Europe, characterised by expensive and risky court proceedings, which are conducted in numerous national courts and often ends with conflicting decisions. The creation of the Single Patent Court will provide uniform practice in the area of patent protection. It will also help reduce the costs of judicial proceedings, as the parties will not have to conduct parallel legal proceedings before different national courts. In addition to that, the Agreement will ensure an increase in the quality and effectiveness of judicial proceedings, providing for special requirements on the necessary qualifications of judges and providing specialised training in the area of patent protection. Since patent disputes include complex technical issues, different compositions of the court provide for the participation of technical qualified judges. The creation of a Single Patent Court together with the single patent protection will improve the investment climate in Bulgaria by providing local and foreign enterprises with better conditions for protecting their technological achievements in Bulgaria and for carrying out innovation activities on the territory of Bulgaria. In 2015 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/994 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2020. estimates have been drawn up to justify the financial part necessary for the maintenance of the Court of Justice (Event RS/04/270215 of the Preparatory Committee Financial Working Group). According to him, the Republic of Bulgaria owes 0.15% of the total amount of funds needed for the maintenance of the Court of Justice, which is estimated to amount to EUR 15 720 for 2016 and EUR 9564 for 2017. Calculations were made on the basis of the number of European patents operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This number and percentage are determined for the last 3 years before the entry into force of the Agreement. On the basis of art. 84 (2) of the Agreement, the same shall be subject to ratification by the participating Member States in accordance with the procedure laid down in their national legislation. Ratification is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para 1, p. 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes in favour, no votes, no votes, no votes, no votes, no reservations, no reservations, the Budget and Finance Commission proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Last report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I am asking for a brief moment only the beginning and the end of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe the European Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 6 April 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Luben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department of the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy.In the Ministry of Economy, and Ms. Mariana Rasheva-Tsvyatkova, Director of the Directorate of Law at the Patent Office. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 11 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Debate mode. Anyone? I can't see. We're closing the debate. We're going to vote. Colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court, No 602-02-6, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention. The bill for ratification of the Agreement was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for voting on the Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court today and on the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u73	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I can't see. Please vote on the procedure. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u74	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court A single member. He ratified the Agreement on the Single Patent Court signed in Brussels on 19 February 2013 by the Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Spain and Poland, and by the Republic of Bulgaria on 5 March 2013. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u75	Statements? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are voting on a second reading of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously and in a second vote. Dear colleagues, thank you for your patience. Holiday till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u76	I ask the MPs to take their seats. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 1 April 2016 A question came in from: - National Representative Vasil Antonov of Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, on specific actions against the vicious practice with the unauthorised receipt of driver's licenses. The reply should be made in plenary on 15 April 2016; - National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister, about a vision for ensuring cyber security in the Republic of Bulgaria. A reply should be made in writing by 20 April 2016; - National Representative Teodora Georgieva of Meglena Kuneva - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, about forcing representatives of the scientific and academic community in the Republic of Bulgaria to leave their homes in Block No 58 per square. "Student town" in Sofia. The reply should be made in writing by 21 April 2016. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on two issues from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Willi Lilkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Kiril Kalfin and Evgeni Stoev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on two issues from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a request from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Miho Mihov and Kiril Tsochev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Silvia Hubenova; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on four questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Krasen Krastev and Petya Avramova; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. Honourable Members, today the parliamentary control begins with debates on the questions of the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the financial policy of the government. I remind you that the parliamentary control meeting on 1 April 2016 was held by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova on Friday. At the same meeting 50 MPs: from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Draft for a solution. In the meantime, according to the Rules of Procedure, the debates were scheduled by me for today.. Friday, 8 April 2016. The proposal for the debate was sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form as early as 1 April 2016 together with the Draft Decision. It's registered at 10:25 p.m. I recall the procedure for holding debates: at the beginning there is an opportunity on behalf of the importers within 10 minutes to... [[National Representative Aleksandar Metodiev wants the floor for procedure.]] Procedure on behalf of the Parliamentary Group........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is 8 April "The International Roma Day." The International Roma Day has been celebrated annually by the UN and the European Union since 1992 when it was proposed by the International Organisation. In 1971 a World Roma Congress was held in London for the first time with the participation of Roma representatives from all continents. The beginning of the World Roma movement for the validation and development of Roma culture and identity is set. The flag and anthem of Roma are accepted as a symbol of the Roma from around the world uniting in their quest for equal entry in the globalizing modern world. The social aim of the International Roma Day is to unite and systematize the efforts of the International Gypsy Movement, as well as to attract the attention of the world public on the problems of the always minority position Gypsies. Education, poverty, segregation. April 8th, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, is the International Day of the Roma Community. It's a day we honor the memory of those half a million Roma killed in the death camps. During World War II, over 500,000. Roma have been sent to concentration camps from which they have not returned. April 8th is what has always dragged Roma up, outside the neighborhood, towards European existence. April 8th is a protest against being locked up in racial categories, determining your qualities according to your skin color, denying your children the future before they get the chance for it. On this day, the Roma around the world appeal for respect, peace and tolerance because the sun shines equally for everyone. This day is the day of the Roma awakening. It is noted as a symbol of the Roma movement, that Roma from all over the world are united in our quest for equal entry in the globalizing modern world. The preservation and enrichment of Roma identity is an important part of this process, which preserves Roma values and rips the patriarchal shackles in front of modern Roma. Identity that unites the different groups and is a bridge between them, because only a proud person with his identity can be equal. On this day, ladies and gentlemen, the Roma around the world appeal for respect, peace and tolerance because this world was created by the Most High for all human creatures, regardless of religion, ethnicity and color of the skin. In this context, our modernity requires, in general, tolerance for every person and the most for politicians. Political will for these so important, so up-to-date topics must be supported, encouraged, and in a conscious way, with concrete political action. Not only parliament and the government, but together with local authorities, NGOs and the Roma community should be partners in solving these problems. Only in this format of permanent partnership, interaction and dialogue would benefit and effect. When searching for these solutions it is imperative to find that balance between respect for the rights of the Roma community, but along with that, to focus on the fact that it is necessary to realize the obligations of her country in the Republic of Bulgaria. Roma problems are undoubtedly an internal issue directly related to the integrity of ethnicities in society. In this sense, however, it is relevant for a large part of European countries. This is precisely why we need to express our common concern about the fact that it has not so far been made and adopted in cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, a single European strategy for Roma inclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we all have the happiness to live in the age of Roma awakening and to contribute to its realization. This is also our responsibility not only as Roma, but especially as Bulgarian citizens. We must put aside the language of hatred and xenophobia against all citizens of Mother Bulgaria, because Bulgaria is a paradise corner created for the earthly, pure-hearted and good-natured people, and for the Bulgarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Methodiev. Colleagues, I recall again the procedure for the debate. After offering on behalf of the importers within 10 minutes the reasons of the Project for a decision are proposed, the debate is a total of one hour among the parliamentary groups, as follows: the group of GERB This time cannot be extended by entering, apart from speaking time, and lines that are made on the occasion of a speech by other Members of the National Assembly. The response time in the duplicate shall not be included in those 60 minutes. They also do not include the time for the reply of the Minister, to whom the last parliamentary control was addressed the questioning of Mr. Goranov, as well as other Deputy Prime Ministers or ministers involved in the debate procedure. On behalf of the importers, Mrs Cornelia Ninova will present us with the reasons and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u79	Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! At the initiative of the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria and with the support of MPs from the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center and independent colleagues we challenged these debates to understand the truth about the financial situation of the state. I say the truth, because there is a drastic difference between what the government and the Prime Minister are saying and the assessments that come from outside, from the European Commission, on the one hand, and, on the other, between what the cabinet represents in Bulgaria and the vital level of people and the development of the economy. Let's look at the facts and the contradictions. Firstly, the government says that we have financial stability, and two weeks ago the European Commission warned us about excessive imbalances, which are expressed in the following: a temporary decline in the absorption of European funds, an excessive increase in debt from 18% in 2013 to 30% in 2017. Most of the adults are socially excluded. The health system limits access to healthcare. The share of people living below the poverty line is high. The European Commission also gives the government a deadline by April to propose measures to correct these policies. Otherwise, a criminal procedure is initiated against Bulgaria. Secondly, the government claims to have economic stability. The Prime Minister even predicted growth of 4.5%, but again the European Commission in its forecast for Bulgaria for 2016 warns that we will not even reach the planned by the Minister of Finance 2.5, but will slow growth in Bulgaria to 1.5%. Against the backdrop of this decline in the economy and finance, public procurement is stopped, which is an additional risk to the economy. Unfortunately, it relies mostly on European funds and public procurement. European funds, which are a major factor in growth, will be less this year, as you know. Corrections of up to 800 million are expected. You're stalling trying to cover that fact, but it's the truth. You're doing this so you don't break the myth that you imposed on others that they're stopping their funds, and you're being released. Europe will cut our money this year! Pressed by these circumstances, the government takes new and new loans. Minister Goranov says they collect more revenue, even for the first quarter they amount to 1 billion. 800 million. lv. But these funds, colleagues, do not feel in the economy or in people's lives. Here's the question: where's the money? The answer came back outside while we were looking for it here. Again from the European Commission, the European Parliament specifically ordered a study on the levels of corruption in European countries and sent it to us. It says: "Because of corruption Bulgaria loses up to 19 billion euros per year, which is more than 1.5 per cent of gross domestic product. Imagine how much money is stolen! The state is looking at this situation from the side. I'll give you this research, Minister. And because you believe that the state should not have a role in the economy, 2.5 billion, provided for capital expenditure, remain uninvested. Here, too, you are doing the opposite of what the world and European countries are doing. The United States of America invests 3.5% of its domestic product through state policies, Germany, 2%. Here the opposite of the stagnation and the non-interference of the state. Third, money is supposed to be a lot, and social payments are frozen. There is also no change in the policy of combating unemployment, the benefits for raising a child from 1 to 2 years are frozen; the monthly supplement for a disabled child; the aid for first-graders; the annual quota for food vouchers for workers. Nearly 3 million live below the poverty line in Bulgaria. It's an anti-human policy supposedly with so much money in it. See which groups of people you punish are children, mothers, weak, pensioners, and monopolies and cartels continue to bloom in Bulgaria. Fourth, the government says it is reforming. But what reforms are these? You take from the scarce funds of state and municipal schools and transfer them to private schools. This isn't reform. This is wild lobbying, and with a change in programs, you delete the national memory of these children, and in I and V classes will go to school without textbooks. What kind of reform is this?! Health reform in which you divide the Bulgarians into two people who will be treated and others who will wait. Pension reform, which was aimed only at reducing the deficit in the NSI and not at the current and future pensioners. The current pensioner did not feel this reform at all, and the young in the future will not retire simply because they cannot accumulate these 40 years of internship that you require under this reform. The point of reforms, colleagues, is to say: now we live better. Well, answer yourself, have you heard any retired, student parent, patient, teacher say that after these reforms things have improved? Minister, we say that you are leading a mixed financial policy, bringing Bulgaria into a debt problem. Each Bulgarian already owes a third of what he has worked. But that money you take as a loan doesn't lead to added value. They don't create production and economics, they don't improve people's lives. You think with a horizon until the end of the term, you take these loans to ensure political peace, but you lead the state to the bottom and the people to despair. Worse, you're looking at this problem with a prickly mood of success. Either you are completely separated from reality, or this is supreme hypocrisy, but in both cases your behaviour is inadequate to the deepening poverty and stagnation in the country. There is an alternative to such a policy. We know that you, your political parties, your political family, believes the right in Bulgaria and Europe that the state has no role in the economy. We say it's the opposite. Rethink this position, as is already happening throughout Europe and the world. Restore the national investment fund and direct funds to the poor and depopulated areas, create additional financial incentives for companies investing in production and creating jobs. Allow the only state bank "The Development Bank," to lend small and family businesses under light conditions to help them start developing production and economics and to open jobs. Stop stealing from European funds! Proceed to national production and economics. The money from Europe will run out in 2020 and then we will find out, but lately, that a country without its own economy has no future. And think that the center of everything you do should not be your fiscal goals and your financial well-being, but the man, the Bulgarian and his life well-being. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, the debate is open. First word wants Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ninova! I'm worried that you ate all the time and Mr. Mikov couldn't participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u82	He's in, Mr. Goranov. They've got 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u83	I want, because I find a very serious discrepancy between the draft decision that you are proposing and the motives that you are pointing out, to assess once again at the beginning of this debate whether we should conduct it, because none of the suggestions that you represent in the Goebbelsian propaganda style correspond to the truth. But we are prepared for this debate and we will hold it. What I would like to say to the Bulgarian MPs is that if the purpose of today's debate is to convince the Chamber that the decision proposed by the importers should be supported, I, on behalf of the government, would recommend that we support it. That is, in today's debate, we have no contradictions about the proposed solution. There is nothing to hide from the National Assembly and none of the indicators required to be presented to the Budget Committee are a secret to society and should not be a secret. And since we have nothing to worry about, we have two scenarios today: to prepare for the new BSP convention or to vote on the decision they propose and to continue to do our job. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u84	Procedure, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u85	Let's get them the money from the register.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u86	Procedure, Mrs. Ninova. Please, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u87	Ms. Tsacheva, as I have recently seen that whatever we say from BSP left Bulgaria everything is breaking through the upcoming congress in the heads of colleagues, please do not let this happen! If you think that when a party has a convention, it will shut up and put up with all the crap in the country, you're just totally wrong. And there's a convention waiting here on the right, and the DPS is waiting for a convention. What do you want the entire opposition and everyone in the state to keep quiet about what you're doing because we're doing a convention? Please, Mrs. Tsacheva, do not allow your fellow Members to be tempted to belittle the serious issue that we are putting through this petty nagging and elementaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u88	Mrs. Ninova, I just have to ask you to present the decision. You have time from the 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u89	? RESPONSIBILITY? in connection with the debate on inquiry No 654-05-30 of 26 February 2016 by the Members of the National Assembly Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the financial policy of the government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Finance to submit to the Budget and Finance Committee of the 43rd National Assembly by 30 June 2016 and by 30 November 2016, information on the expenditure of the funds under art. 1, para. Section II. This is the total amount of technical provisions without transitional deduction to technical provisions without transitional deduction to technical provisions without transitional on technical provisions. "Capital expenditures" from the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, amounting to 2 511 887.9 thousand. BGN, including information on: 1. the recipient of the funds, the purpose and conditions of their granting; 2. the initiated and/or government-backed investment projects in the form of a public-private partnership with an indication of the economy sector, the conditions and the expected results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u90	Thank you. Until now, Mr. Velizar Enchev has applied for a statement. I expect the other MPs, according to the time of the parliamentary groups. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u91	Madam President, although not accepted, I will begin my speech with a reply from Minister Goranov, who made an embarrassing statement that Goebels propaganda from the opposition was being conducted here. Mr. Goranov, in the spirit of Goebbels, you can ban debates, ban opposition from parliament if you don't like this topic. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Besides, if you're going to compare the opposition's behaviour with Goebbels, I could compare your behaviour with the Third Reich Finance Minister, but I'm not. I begin my speech that at the beginning of last year, when the 16 billion-billion-dollar debt framework was voted on. lv. For three years, I specify this, Mr. Borisov threatened the parliament that if this was not accepted, the state would go bankrupt. A year earlier, Mr. Borisov, opposition in this Parliament, said the opposite against Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski's intention to assume a debt of only 1 billion. BGN, not 16 billion lv. That the state would go bankrupt if it took that debt. Judge yourself, Mr. Goranov, and you, honourable Members, what is the financial culture of the Prime Minister and his finance minister, respectively, because he, a few days ago, when I asked this question, ironized me, but did not answer the question whether Mr. Borisov was right to speak in this way. What does this cabinet need so much money urgently for? 16 billion last year and 2 billion now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u92	Mr. Enchev, I'm interrupting because you're out of the solution project. We are discussing, as Mrs. Ninova specifically read, the Decision Project, the capital expenditures in Section II, row two of the State Budget Act, which amounts to 2 billion. 511 million and so on. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u93	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I started talking about the $2 billion right then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u94	I heard another number from you, but let's assume I was wrong. Okay, the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u95	Okay, I'm talking about the two billion. Why these 2 billion are needed. lv.? That $2 billion. lv. are obviously necessary because of a very disturbing statistic, which was officially exported by the Finance Ministry. That $2 billion. lv. are necessary because out of 256 municipalities in Bulgaria 156 have a severe deficit and the shortage is a billion and 300 million leva. These 2 billion are clearly necessary that the successful municipalities of Sofia, Varna and Plovdiv under the leadership of the mayors of GERB have gone bankrupt, as Mrs. Fandakova, the capital, has a debt of 570 million. lv. These 2 billion are needed because of the debt of 79 million to Varna, Mr. Goranov, the debt of 35 million to Plovdiv, I repeat, all three cities managed by mayors of GERB. In all three places this means that the mayors of your party have very low financial competence, management weakness, and perhaps corruption practices. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That is, the loan that you announced on March 14th this year that you will withdraw the next large external loan of 2 billion. Euros, surpasses, Mr. Goranov, government debt by 30% of gross domestic product. Doesn't that 30% of gross domestic product bother you? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The important issues in terms of taxpayers, Mr. Goranov, are two: why does the Ministry of Finance take loans in general and take this loan of 2 billion. BGN, and do they take these loans under the best conditions? I would like to remind you of the two-billion-dollar loan that, as of 31 December 2015, according to your information, the fiscal reserve was 6 billion. 800 million. lv. If the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund recovers at least half of the debt to the Treasury, the state reserve will exceed 7 billion. 800 million. BGN, at a legal minimum of 4.5 billion. Mr. Goranov, this is more than enough to meet the budget deficit of 1 billion. 800 million. lv. and therefore your entire issue of this 2 billion. The euro that you voted on March 14th goes, figuratively speaking, to a warehouse. So I ask: what unforeseen events make the cabinet re-insured with this debt of 2 billion. lv.? And I immediately answer that question that I ask myself. [[Laughter and excitement from GERB.]] First of all, Mr. Goranov, since you won't announce... You may laugh, but what I'm going to say now as an answer is quite disturbing, and it's coming. First, the Bulgarian government stated, or at least declared, that it is ready to provide State aid in a negative development in the arbitration case, filed by the Atomstroyexport versus NEK because of the suspended project for NPP "Belene". We expect within a month a judgment of the court... a billion and a half may be condemned. But there are other claims against Bulgaria, which are partly your fault, your government, which is why you want this two-billion-dollar loan. In addition to the EVN case registered in 2014 at the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes worth 500 million. Euros, such a claim, Mr. Goranov, last year has also imported Energo-pro for the sum of 54 million. EUR and Bulgaria has been informed of the same intention by CEZ. All three claims are about violating interstate agreements to protect investment and the Energy Charter. Adding the request of the State Reserve Fund of Oman, Mr. Minister, against Bulgaria in connection with the withdrawal of the license of KTB [[GERB noise and lines]] , as the claim of the minority owner is in May for 150 million. EUR, I fully understand why you want this debt of 2 billion. EUR, but before that you have to say who is responsible for all these listed claims. [[the President signals that time has run out]] to the Bulgarian side. First of all, it is the ruling party GERB's fault for the first and second term. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u96	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u97	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! There is too much left in the general talk of the statements of the importers, but they simply want the following: they want an increase in the budget deficit. In the initial development of the issue, France gives an example. Now, today, when they reasoned their motives, they set an example for Germany. However, if you had read, colleagues, at least Eurostat and see that the general government deficit in Germany for 2013 is minus 0,1%, that is, almost zero, and for 2014 it is 0,3%. That is, you give examples of countries that do the opposite, which is bad practice. Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Goranov, you have no reason to give up the policy to reduce the budget deficit. This is part of stability. You don't have a single reason!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u98	But he's not reducing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u99	This year, therefore, we must be careful what is done and endure the pressure in this direction. However, it is important to take concrete measures as well, enough of this general talk, because the importers talked about the ordinary person, his well-being and this was their main problem and the main concern. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] That was the project's idea of a solution then. Over 670 thousand tons of food in Bulgaria is wasted and destroyed instead of being donated by producers and supermarkets. Here, we can do something big, which does not even cost special money, for thousands of people in Bulgaria, for the poor people in Bulgaria. We from the Reformation Block, from the civil side, have submitted a specific Law.. The donation of foods at the end of the expiration date to be exempt from VAT as it is in 15 European countries, and to equalise in practice with the regime of their destruction. Then there will be no big budget expenditure, but we will make for the poor people a huge gesture and virtually there will be no hungry people in Bulgaria if this system works. This can be done, and this is a specific goal. Those precongress common tales don't work. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] That's why I'm calling you, Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u100	I'm asking for a decision on the Project. The food will be discussed at first reading in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u101	...to support the concrete proposal we are giving you today. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u102	Mr. Dimitrov, the concrete decision we are debating today is different from what you are asking us to support today. Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u103	Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the questioning contains a specific Decision, but the title of the questioning relates to the fiscal policy of the government, which allows, of course, certain deviations with regard to the specific texts in the Decision. Dear Minister, I will not speak fiction, emotionally. I mean, here's the thing. For several years now, when the budgets have been adopted, we say that you accept undervalued revenue, easily implemented budgets. This year's budget implementation also confirms these conclusions. Of course, I would not say that this is a major problem for the government's fiscal policy, but the expected significant increase in revenue this year.. from parliamentary and government sources we understand that only in the first quarter this increase is close to 2 billion. lv. It gives us reason to ask a few substantial questions. Firstly, do you intend to update the 2016 budget, and in what direction will this update possibly be? Do you intend to reduce the planned deficit after expecting such large overruns of the revenue side of the budget? How do you plan to ensure greater than 3% growth in the Bulgarian economy? In fact, the third issue is the most important issue which would guarantee us in the future concrete and direct results on individual people in terms of their income and their standard of living. It became clear to everyone that for seven years the growth of the Bulgarian economy, which is squirming in severe depression, is less than 2%. How and in what way you would ensure growth greater than 3%, which would be a great achievement for the government and a very sure sign that the Bulgarian economy is coming out of this depression. In this regard, I would like to mention to you that the great depression 1933 " 1939" lasted six years, and the Bulgarian economy has been in this situation for seven years now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u104	Honourable Members, I remind you that the general question for financial policy was raised by Minister Goranov in the previous parliamentary control. The initiative for holding a debate is chosen by the MPs who have signed a specific draft decision and the specific draft decision is the subject of the debate today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u105	The debate is about asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u106	It's not about asking, the debate is about the draft decision and the motives, and the reason for this project is the question that took place last Friday. Any lines to Mr. Imamov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u107	Maybe there's more than one question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u108	Yeah, but there's no import. If there was more than one solution, we'd debate him too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! The debate on the budget, the commitment of the debt and the financial situation of Bulgaria should not and cannot end with the entry into force of the State Budget Act. Unfortunately, in the topics that we are debating today, the Bulgarian society does not focus, the parliament does not focus the media do not pay enough attention to them. Unfortunately, we, too, as MPs, do not comply with the provisions of the State Budget Act, which requires the annual report on the implementation of the budget to be debated, discussed and adopted in this House. This has not happened either for the 2013 budget or for the 2014 budget. If this were the case, including the debates on the six-month implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme, we might not be having this debate today. It is strange that despite the economic and financial crisis, which has had severe consequences for public finances and worsens the budgetary situation, the national priority is never the economy. We often hear that we have met the European Union's requirements for stability and this has been achieved, but the requirement is not only for stability but also for growth. Eight years of attempts to achieve sustainable economic growth through austerity, following blindly the neoliberal version, did not result in positive results, and there is no clear idea how the Bulgarian economy will develop. This is an economic policy that must be closely linked to the fiscal policy. It is for this reason that, when the Federal Republic discusses and adopts its budget, this discussion is attended and protects the budget of both ministers and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. Bulgarians are pessimistic about our participation in the European Union because, although the gross domestic product for 2016 is 54 billion and in 2015 we already have 86 billion, this increase does not affect and we do not reach the expected average European income level by Bulgarian citizens. The life of Bulgarian citizens is not improving. According to Eurostat data, people threatened with poverty in Bulgaria are more than 20%, which puts us as a country with a high degree of inequality reaching the limits threatening the overall sustainability and perspective for development. For 2015, colleagues, only about 32% of gross domestic product and gross added value are created by the real economy, which shows how fulfilled the promises in the government's management programme for rapid reforms and structural changes, increasing the share of innovation and new technologies sectors, which create much more added value. Budget discussions should continue throughout the year, as budget 2016 contains a number of underwater stones: a sharp increase in debt, a lack of clarity for public investment, low income and corporate taxes and a budgeting process, including in the last year an update of the budget. The increase in government debt has long-term negative effects on the economy. High levels of debt make the economy more vulnerable, create adverse shocks and can prevent even small growth. The increasing public expenditures lead to a reduction in investment. This, in turn, leads to a reduction in the competitiveness of the economy and, hence, on exports, which is a major driver of growth. The increasing levels of debt cannot fail to lead sooner or later to a change in tax levels. They are a major factor that generates foreign investment and are very important, of course, in this area. However, the tax system must comply with the demotivating factors for job creation and be changed so as to be fair and, of course, effective. We are in a state of combat and not of anxiety.. said the director of the International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde on the occasion of the Fund's assessment that the weakening of the global economy will continue. Sustainable growth must be the main objective of our economic policy. In this context, budgetary recovery, which is expressed in an effective allocation of financial resources, could find funds to restore the balance of the budget in the medium term without hindering the achievement of the objective of accelerated growth. In all directions, however, only promises, strategies are written, and the result so far is zero: neither do we have sustainable consolidation, nor do we realize the necessary growth of gross domestic product, the efficiency of budget spending is not improved, nor does the living standard of the majority of Bulgarians improve. If this continues, it is normal for debt to increase, for interest costs to shift the useful public costs, and for the accumulation of significant debt payments, around 2023 we should no longer talk about danger, but about disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Speaking about the government's financial policy and, in particular, about this Draft Decision, it should be mentioned that there are a number of accents arising from the management of public finances and the state budget. First of all, where is the budget filled or, more precisely, what are the mechanisms and instruments for financing public finances? Secondly, what does the budget invest in? I mean, what are the working priorities for our fiscal policy? The most important things, however, are how is the socio-economic environment improved, and how much does the budget have the necessary transparency? What should a government financial policy aim at? The aim is to improve philosophy on how the budget has an impact on the economy of the state. One of the most direct mechanisms is the restart of the Bulgarian economy by accelerating economic growth, increasing profitability and employment, reducing unemployment and promoting investment. We can clearly state that in this direction the trends are positive and here is a short statistic: In 2015 the income from the labor of Bulgarian citizens increased. In our country there is a record for the European Union a decline in unemployment, with the latest data of national statistics reaching 7.4%, which takes it to the 2009 levels. Over 50 000 new jobs were created last year and the number of employees exceeded 3 million. The average salary in December 2015 reached 937 BGN, which is an increase of 8.3% in the last 12 months. This is the result of both good labour market policy and economic recovery, albeit weak, because despite the 3% growth of the Bulgarian economy, it is still weak by the one we observe in a number of Central and Eastern European countries. In addition, I would like to remind you again that the most important things for public finances are external debt, budgetary deficit or negative budgetary balance and foreign direct investment and the way we encourage them. So far, the ABB has repeatedly raised the issue before the Finance Minister about the control of public external debt. We did so even in the context of a request from the Finance Ministry to achieve better revenue and income results. I use the occasion to express my positive attitude towards the government about raising the collection rate. However, the ministry of finance also expressed readiness to issue new eurobonds on foreign markets. It is expected that after the issue of the new government securities the amount of external debt will exceed more than half of the estimated to 8 billion. EUR, according to the three-year framework. We at the ABB insist on a reasonable application of the procedures for assuming additional external debt and call for compliance with the commitments made by the Finance Minister not to enjoy the full amount of 8 billion. EUR set out in the programme by the end of 2017 The main argument of the Ministry is that the basic prerequisite for assuming government debt is the need to provide funds for the refinancing of debt in circulation; financing budget deficits and maintaining an adequate level of the fiscal reserve as a liquidity buffer. Here comes the question, which I would like to ask: speaking of a buffer of 2 billion. EUR, is the Ministry, after all, adequate supervisory information from the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission on the stress tests carried out in the banking sector and the quality assessment of their assets? Speaking of a negative budget balance, I would like to return you to the debates from last year on 25 February on the Ratification of Foreign Debt, when Prof. Borisov, Chairman of the ABB Parliamentary Group, said that we do not have concerns about a budget deficit if it is formed by expenditure related to investment and economic growth. However, we would have been worried if the costs were being incurred......... in the direction of sinking into the sand....................................................................................... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The other thing that I'd like to pay attention to and that I'm done with...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u112	There's no time for your group, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u113	Thank you, Madam President. ... is that, indeed, in terms of increased external debt and a negative budget balance, we need to find the most direct and accessible way to raise foreign direct investment, as these are factors that shrink the promotion of investment. Finally, honourable Members,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u114	Mr. Belemezov, don't force me to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u115	... with a view to achieving higher budgetary transparency, we at ABB will support the proposed draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u116	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov from the group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to say that I am going to sharply distinguish myself from the attempt to precongress PR on this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u118	That's a clear question. We're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u119	I have a right to distinguish myself, don't I?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u121	Transparency and, in particular, budgetary transparency of public funds is always useful and necessary. Naturally, there are concerns here and by pre-speakers, as if they were in some other National Assembly, they did not understand what was being pursued in the economy. Naturally, we must take into account the good practices that have been introduced, first of all, in limiting the gray, not to say the black economy, increasing the collection rate, and from now on the Patriot Front as a formation that has a consistent policy, there is no way to ignore, dear Minister, a few fundamental facts. It is the finance minister who, through a tight financial policy and a natural policy in which to seek high collection of revenue from the entities, must still use the mechanism and levers for heating the internal consumption of the economy. I would like to point out here that, after all, 2 billion. lv. It's not a small amount of money, but over the two billion. BGN, this year it is high time for the state to pay attention and address the people of the third age, i.e. the people of the pensioners. We have also proposed when considering the budget, and we continue to insist that the minimum pension must be levelled with the poverty threshold, which is the government of the Republic of Bulgaria has officially announced by a decree of 300 BGN. At the same time, we also pointed out some useful sources so that the budget would not be damaged. We have indicated that it is high time for party subsidies to be sharply cut and from there will come a small resource. However, I see that there is a lack of political will on this issue from both left and center and right. You, Minister, can be the initiator of this measure to cut these party subsidies, which make up about 240 million. lv. At the same time, we have proposed another measure, which I do not know why it does not meet support, namely encouraging exemplary parents - those who fill the budget with taxes, with insurance contributions, but we somehow forget to stimulate them too. Colleagues are pretending to be pleasantly distracted, this Law on the amendment of the Law on taxation of personal incomes and from now on we are going to something very important. The important thing is that it is high time to change the approach to small and medium businesses. Here is an example of an incorrect decision on cutting small businesses in the face of Bulgarian producers of brandy. We cut 1,000-1500 people. Zero pennies of revenue in the budget and at the same time stimulate the large oligarchs, which, by my estimates, import 1.2 cents of tax, because, analyzed through the prism of production and imported tax, this tax and excise tax is literally insignificant. Finally, I would like to point out to you, Mr. Minister, that this year the Bulgarian business is facing an extremely strong season in the field of tourism, at least everyone believes so. I would like to ask you in the context of my speech: is the National Revenue Agency ready to collect maximum revenue from this industry, or are we going to miss this strong year, which, by coincidence, emerges particularly in the direction of sea summer tourism? I have the feeling that once again, somehow, we will go after the events in terms of this revenue policy and the revenue collection philosophy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u122	Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Mr. Dimitar Tanev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u123	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ninova, when you mentioned a convention on the right, this topic made us very happy because we cannot do it, and with your help it could happen, so this is very good news for the right voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u124	Colleagues, let's stick to the solution project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u125	As for the topic that you are discussing today, it is normal for any opposition to set specific topics, specific policies to be discussed, but I am surprised why you have chosen fiscal policy precisely. You're the weakest there. You are the weakest ideologically, you are the weakest in terms of implementation. Why am I saying this? When it comes to discussing both the budget and specific laws, at least I have the impression that the only thing you are proposing is how to increase taxes, how to increase costs and how to increase the budget deficit. When we talk about performance, let's go back to 2014 when what did we see?! We saw...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u126	We're talking about 2015 not 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u127	Let's see what you've done. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u128	Why are you calling from the gym?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u129	Colleagues, please don't go into unauthorized lines. You'll be able to replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u130	We found a huge budget deficit, we found a failed investment programme. A program where more than 500 million were spent in such an opaque way that I don't know why you're not ashamed to mention it at all. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let us also say about the achievements of the government. Let us say for 2015 what we consider as facts: we have growth of gross domestic product 3%, which is 50% more than the average for the European Union; we have 2 billion more revenue and this is the result of both economic growth and greater collection and lightening of the economy. What else do we have? We have another 75,000 jobs. Why aren't you guys happy about this? We have a reduction in unemployment; we have an increase in the average wage by 10%. What more could we ask for? Minister, I believe that the policy that you are doing is right, the state is gradually recovering, the economy is going. Please do not listen to your colleagues on the left, and if you continue to increase revenue and reduce deficit while maintaining tax levels, you will have the firm support of the Reformation bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u131	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u132	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! On April 1st, the Bulgarian society was flooded with heaps of April 1st, to put it mildly, jokes by two prominent BSP functionaries, who gave us a decent dose of populism, allegations, a well-wrapped mix of demagogy, socialist populism, which unfortunately continued to develop this thesis today. In the economic context, a professional debate on the issues that you have raised, fellow Members, you are aware that it would end quickly and with a foretold end. There can be talked about structural deficit, economic cycle, long-term sustainability of public finances and so on and so forth. The current debate, which is public and intended for the general public, requires clear, widely available and understandable arguments supposed few numbers and undisputed trends seen in the last three years. You are pleading for more budget expenditure and a higher deficit. To learn from Europe, you say, of course, more state everywhere and especially in the economy, after which you declare yourself against the colossal increase in government debt, as if the first more expenditure, is not the cause of the second high debt. It's like you don't think there's any connection between these things. For economists like you, at least it's strange at least in the eyes of macroeconomicists. Where's the contradiction? Every year you from BSP insist on more expenditure on all budgetary systems and especially in the social sphere, of course, except for the periods in which you manage the country. At the same time, you are resisting every major reform and in the same bloated systems that receive as a rule more money, but unfortunately, with a much worse result. It is high time you answered the question what do you really want more costs or less debt? You can't! You can't both at the same time, and you know it perfectly. Secondly, you declare yourself more public money in the economy. Let's face it: public funds are very small, and thanks to the absorption of EU funds, levels of 97%. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I suppose you don't want me to recall the suspended programs because of the corrupt practices of your offices. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, you claim that consumer demand is falling, that construction is stalling and that foreign trade turnover is falling, in fact, trends show the exact opposite. Compared in figures: from 11.6 at the end of 2013, in 15.9.2014, to 20.1 by the end of 2015. Data show improvement of the business climate, including in sectors such as trade, construction, industry, industry, increase by 2.8% in 2015, after growth of 1.8% in the previous year. Furthermore, it is important to emphasise that the results of fiscal implementation so far are not due to additional cost-cutting measures beyond those we have adopted in the 2016 State budget. Administratively or legally no action has been taken to further suppress costs or investments. However, the debate on how the expenditure part of the budget can be affected by the growth of gross domestic product is very meaningful. We have proposed a 2% deficit that brings the state as a countercyclical player, i.e. the country through the budget, in support of practical growth. We must emphasise that if we manage to achieve a better implementation of the revenue section, which has already been asked, we will use this to reduce the budget deficit and take on debt. To point out specific data: in 2015, the nominal increase in tax revenues is about 2.1 billion or 12% increase, which is much higher than both the actual and the nominal increase in gross domestic product. The conclusion is that if something does not follow from an increase in the tax base, it should naturally be from a better collection. There is a large difference in nominal levels of previous periods. In 2013, the revenue was a total of 28 billion 981 million; in 2014. The Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Note that there are already 32 billion 205 million; and another figure to follow the trend of the surplus at the end of March this year, from over 1.8 billion as the main growth comes from increased tax and insurance revenues. On the other hand, we must emphasise that the nominal implementation of revenues, fellow Members, is due to 50% of the positive processes in the economy and 50% of the higher collection rate. Some of the measures that are now being implemented are from legislative initiatives and from previous governments, for example, fiscal control. This is a very good tool that we are developing now and again. We support all the good measures that have been taken. We expect the Minister of Finance to propose a concept of NRA's dominance functions soon, namely the NRA and the prosecutor's office, to have knowledge of crimes against the financial system. I hope this proposal will be supported by you as well. Obviously, the revenues, as shown, are accounted for, but they are not sufficient to cover the shortfall. In order to cover a deficit, it is necessary, unfortunately, to assume debt. You claim that debt increases in large amounts. The debt, you know very well, is a derivative of the deficit and increases in proportion to its growth. The adoption of the reforms proposed by the government prevents the increase of expenditure, and with them, respectively, the deficit and debt. But let's make it clear that the long-term disaster is quite far-fetched. Bulgaria is very far from the debt spiral. At the end of this year, if the amount of new debt laid down in the budget is issued, the total amount will be around 25 billion. BGN, which is 27% of the gross domestic product, with 90% on average for the Eurozone, and that if it has grown significantly in recent years, it is the result of it, we cannot save it on the venture of Oresharski and your irresponsible governance, which has led the country to the edge of a financial crisis and led to the bankruptcy of KTB, with all the negative financial consequences for Bulgaria, and that the significant overexecution of the fiscal objectives will improve the parameters set out in the initial three-year budget forecast. You say "bad business environment." It's true, it's not good, but not since yesterday. Let us recall that your Prime Minister Mrs. Bobeva wrote a name tag of measures, which unfortunately remained on paper. Now some of them, along with many others, are applied in practice. What measures does the government of Prime Minister Borisov take? A sharp reduction in the number of permits and coordination regimes; faster connection of new sites to electricity, gas, water; improvement of road infrastructure; reduction of import and export costs; acceleration of judicial reform; increase in revenue collections; these are part of the measures that are also recorded in the Investment Increase Plan prepared by Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. Problems for investors are reported to be corruption, asynchronousness between decisions of central and local authorities, frequent changes in laws, lack of qualified specialists, ineffective dispute resolution. The whole Plan should be adopted by the cabinet by the end of April. You claim that there is huge and deepening poverty. The Bulgarian people are poor, unfortunately. We all know that, and we know the reasons why. But who in the last 25 years has ruled the longest? BSP! [[BSP LB.]] And you should be aware that you are the most guilty of this, not raising a debate on this subject. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It is high time we understood that as long as we spend public money in unreformed budgetary systems, we cannot, colleagues, become rich. Still, the trend is positive. To compare the increase in nominal salary in 2015 compared to 2014 and 2013. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 9.9%. It's a statistic. It's easy to check. Another fact that contradicts your fellow Members. The consumption from 0.7% from 2013, at the end of 2015, jumped nearly four times to 2,4%. A fact that shows the stability of the environment, comforting the people and restoring trust. You say the labor market is difficult. With regard to the labour market, it can be very desirable, but right now is hardly the best time for criticism. In 2015, we have an increase in employment and a drop in unemployment levels close to the average European levels. Let's recall the 12.9% decrease in 2013, to 11.4% in 2014 and reach levels of 9.1% at the end of 2015. And notice, at this time unemployment has already dropped to 7.9% below the Eurozone average. Let us also comment on the topic of high corruption and large-scale smuggling. You say 19 billion. Euros are stolen annually. Where's the money, you're asking patheticly? Two billion more revenues, two billion personal wallets of Borisov and you answer yourself: they are not in the economy, they are not in the incomes of the people. And you're making the ingenious assumption that they're stealing! That's what the tortured taxpayer wants to hear. This brings him one of the candidates, unfortunately, to the chairman of the BSP. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u133	Mrs. Yordanova, we said we would not engage in precongress rhetoric.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u134	Excuse me, but this is a model worthy of a textbook on political demagogy and populism. A clear and precise answer is needed. Do you have any idea what the sum of 19 billion is? Euros? That this is not more than two, but 40% of the country's gross domestic product. Let us recall that the revenue collected of 2.8 billion in 2015, in more than 2014, was largely due to a restriction on smuggling and corruption and that the record budget surplus for the first quarter of 1.8 billion. lv. This year, too, and that a large part of these additional revenues are used to reduce the deficit and hence the planned amount of debt. Let us also recall that gross domestic product is growing nearly twice and a half compared to the end of 2013 and is already over 3% and the fiscal reserve, often used for speculation with figures, from 4.6 billion at the end of 2013, rose to 9.9 billion at the end of 2015. The facts and accurate data listed above, colleagues, show that you need to cool down a bit at the risk of making a remark to me by the chairwoman...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u135	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u136	...precongress socialist enthusiasm. Moreover, it comes at a time when Bulgaria's economy and finances are far better than yesterday. We are surprised that you are attacking the most stable system and policy in the government, because this is not in your interest, as the figures show, but we of the GERB Parliamentary Group have nothing to fear and hide. Proving its transparency, even more with the monthly data that the Minister of Finance publishes for the implementation of the budget, we will support the proposed draft decision. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u137	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u138	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u139	Wait a minute, yeah. How much time do they have? [[Noise and lines.]] It's twenty-four seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u140	Dear Mrs. Yordanova, you mentioned the record overexecution of the revenue side of the budget, mentioned the reduced deficit every year next year and the expected reduction for next year. However, you did not mention the record low unemployment rate of 7.9%. In the first five countries, we are in the European Union at an unemployment rate. [[Applause from GERB.]] You forgot to mention that for the first two months we have a record growth in investments in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired. Partial applause by GERB.]] You forgot to mention that we have spent 95% of European funds in the period 2007 - 2013. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u141	Time, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u142	You forgot to mention record exports for 97%. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I apologize, Mr. Donchev, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u143	Time, Mr. Dobrev. Please don't force me to take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u144	The record exports for the first two months...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u145	There's no possibility within these few minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u146	And the only reason I didn't mention the BSP convention is because the chairman will make a comment to me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u147	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov. How much time do they have? One minute and two. [[Loud noise and lines. The line of the MP Tasco Ermenkov away from the microphones.]] Okay, okay. Yeah. I call, MPs talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u148	I want to make it official.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u149	Okay, you're gonna make it official.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u150	Madam President, honourable Members! I always thought that here we would talk seriously, we would not profanize one debate, but obviously colleagues from GERB cannot in any other way. Twenty-five years is the biggest lie that can be heard that the BSP has ruled. [[GERB lines.]] Colleagues, your man, who is your chief, has been in power since 2001, he hasn't been out of it. And you to justify that BSP is your fault is an absolute "I don't want to use the word insolence" but is a goonsuratl. That's the word I'm going to use to make it seem more interesting to all of you. [[Comments from GERB: "You have managed 50 years. "]] Colleagues, if we live so well, according to your calculations, according to what you do, according to excesses, I ask: why are the streets full of protesters? [[(Laughter) Announcements by GERB: "Eee! ")]] What do we do with education, what do we do with... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u151	Colleagues, I ask for order and silence. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u152	What do we do with the doctors who went out? What do we do with the mothers who were out? What do we do with the people who came out here because of Bulgartabac? Where is your good management?! Or perhaps you have froze in time since April 1st and today April 8th is the same thing that is April 1st, and continue so in April spirit with jokes and banter to convince us how well we live. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Look, people, get down on the ground! You can live well and ride on your cars, but people in Bulgaria do not live well and tell you every day. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u154	For this reason, I ask you very much not to pry and do not justify your incompetence with someone who was supposedly guilty. For twenty-five years, BSP has managed one and a half years, almost two years alone, four years in a coalition. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't force me to take your word for it. [[Loud noise and lines. Banging at banks. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u156	During the other time were the wrong governments and they led Bulgaria to what it is now! Recently and with your help! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! " Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u157	Thank you. Third line? [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Colleagues, please be patient! A line? [[Noise and lines.]] We don't have time for the band. A third line of groups that have time? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, the truth is that when numbers and facts speak, even BSPs need to maintain decency. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u159	And the Communists are silent!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u160	I regret that you have turned the National Assembly stand into an exercise of speeches that you will be making at your convention! [[Applause from GERB.]] I don't think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u161	Any other MPs? It's a personal explanation. Ms. Nino recognized herself in Mrs. Yordanova's sentence. [[(beeping loudly: * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ……]] on the congress subject I'm trying to warn you about, colleagues, but it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u162	And I have tried to ask you not to discuss this topic here, but since you are very curious, colleagues, I invite you all to the Congress of BSP [[GERB loud noise and applause]] To hear how politics are made, how there are ideas, how these ideas will become reality...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u163	Mrs. Ninova, how are you affected? Will you share the personal explanation of what you're affected by?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u164	Come over there and you'll hear what a serious party with serious politics means. [[Voices: "Woo!" by GERB.]] Now get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u165	What are you personally affected by? You have a procedure for a personal explanation, not essentially a debate. How did you feel affected by Mrs. Yordanova's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u166	That none of what I've said is true. By insinuating both you and the reformist bloc that we want an increase in the deficit. Where did you hear that? We don't want a deficit increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u167	That's basically it, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u168	We want the surplus that came together of $2 billion. BGN, invest it in income and economics...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u169	We've found out what you're affected with. Basically...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u170	Not to increase...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u171	Please don't force me to take your word for it! I've been praying to all the MPs all day!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u172	Mrs. Tsacheva, I would like to refute the insult that I am lying here that I have said that BSP wants an increase in deficit costs and will destroy the state. No such thing, don't insinuate such a thing! If you don't believe the opposition that you're stealing 19 billion. EUR., here is the report from the European Commission! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u173	Mrs. Ninova, this is getting to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u174	When you go to Europe, you bow down and kiss your hand, but when you get your finger out of Europe, you don't admit such a thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u176	Go to Europe and listen to what they say!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u178	Not us, Europe tells you you're stealing 19 billion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u179	I'm warning you, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u180	Europe says that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u181	I'll take your word for it, ma'am... [[Noise and lines. People's representative Cornelia Nino speaks with microphones off.]] Mrs. Ninova! Thank you. Let's calmly wait for the end of the debate. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in. Procedure in the manner of conduct probably.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u182	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, as many of my fellow Members were not present, but if you remember, I took such a procedure just last Friday with regard to the violation of the Rules by Mrs Nino. Today this has happened a relapse and very please do not pray, just apply the Rules of Procedure! I'm tired of hearing precongress stories here. [[Loud applause and laughter at GERB.]] By the way, I'll come to your convention if Mr. Mikov invites me! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u183	The word is Mr. Nayden of Zelenogorski to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please! Your entire group or large part are of some quality and can be recognized! I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u184	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! Undoubtedly, the debate on financial policy is extremely important. I'm an economist, and I'm used to handling facts. And they are: in Bulgaria there is political stability, there is financial stability [[Laughter in BSP LB]] There is a declining deficit, there is an economic growth of 3%, and I hope this economic growth will become sustainable economic growth. In Bulgaria there are 3 billion more revenues in the treasury, there is a decisive battle with smuggling. And particularly here, I would like to mention a colonel, General Vanyo Tanov, who was really flawlessly handling his tasks. Bulgaria has had satisfactory municipal budgets and I dare say that at this moment the financial policy of the government is extremely correct. On the other hand, however, I hear from colleagues that they are against corruption. I very much hope that the BSP will support the Anticorruption Act to prove that you are against corruption. Otherwise you will have to explain otherwise to the voters of your voters why you would encourage actions that are against a decisive battle against corruption. In the end, I will say that the Reformation bloc will support your proposal for a solution. Neither the majority nor the government nor the finance minister has anything to worry about. We are for more transparency, for more clarity. We are about the public knowing how to spend the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you and I really call on all my fellow Members to support this draft proposal to the gentlemen of the BSP. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP LB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u185	Thank you. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! Listening to the discussion so far, I feel that, apart from colleagues from the coalition BSP left Bulgaria and the other political parties are facing a congress. [[Laughter]] Some thorny speeches, and the subject of the Project Decision is perfectly clear and everyone supports this Project Decision because it allows for transparency. Dear colleagues, the big problem is which Mr. Imamov put in his speech a moment ago: are the revenues being wagered in the course of the budget procedure the real ones or are they reduced? We from the DPS in the course of the budget procedure in all three budget budgets in the State Budget Act, in the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, in the State Social Security Budget Act, proposed higher projects. And much less high than they are now practically overreacting! You then refused to accept these proposals because the costs then had to be made transparently, had to be made according to spending policies. Now the overexecution of revenues is made only by a decision of the Council of Ministers. There's no predictability! There is no harm in that, you have the right, it is within the framework of the Law. But tell me, because you're talking about spending cuts, a National Health Insurance Fund budget bill has been passed. We soon found out that outside of this budget, 74 million. 500 grand is the extra money that's being allocated. Can you tell me, given that health insurance contributions are targeted, can only be used for health purposes if these revenues have been re-executed within the first quarter, on an annual basis, whether or not there will be such re-execution? Who gives you the right? The Public Finance Act does not give you that right. Who gives you the right to distribute this money, under which law, to which legal act do you distribute this money? Moreover, the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act states that the Cashier's Supervisory Board can reorganise after 31 March 2016, and you did so before that. The answers to these questions must find a place in the draft decision, in this report, which you must give to the Budget Committee. Otherwise, you well criticized the previous government's public investment programme, you stopped a large part of these projects, it is your right to do so, but it was a public investment programme. The big problem of the discussion we are having now is that there is no publicity and transparency. [[Applause from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u187	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. Most of the groups have no time to participate in the debate. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u188	Shouldn't we have voted first?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And I suggested that we vote first, but in the meantime, we had to have a debate. I'm not happy with the debate, and I'll tell you why. Apart from the fact that in no way have you been able to show an alternative to the current governance, and only manipulatively provided information that is not available with the official statistics, I could make the following relatively general comment. You claim to be very concerned about poor people. So do we. So are we! [[Reply of National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] In 2015, the state's wages increased by 10,2%, and in terms of minimum income, since you didn't know out of fear or for what reason you resigned, the minimum wage increased by 24%. Children's supplements have increased.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u190	But that's according to the 3-year forecast!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u191	We have already talked about the growth of the economy, it is hardly a topic of pride, but it is the highest growth since the time of economic depression. The business climate index is growing, especially the business climate in industry, and it is 50% higher than the last time you managed it. The consumer confidence index is growing significantly, with only improved by over 30% compared to the end of 2014. As regards investments, each quarter of 2015 is higher than the quarters of 2013 and 2014. By the way, do you know where Menda Stoyanova is today? She is absent because she is in Plovdiv, where a high-tech foreign investment for over 40 million is opened. dollar [[Applause from GERB]] which creates over 1500 new jobs. [[Applause from GERB.]] With regard to debt, I am opposed to debt, so I propose a policy of deficit limitation. But I would like to draw your attention to the following statistics, which you may also have, as it is official. If Rumen Gechev were here, he would have told the EUROSTATE. According to official statistics, at the end of 2012 [[BSP LB]] When GERB last ruled, the debt was 16.8%. By the end of 2014, honourable Members, the debt is 26.3% of gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u192	Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u193	It's official stats!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u194	It's manipulation, they then have payment, so it decreases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u195	See, and at the end of 2015, the government debt is 0.1 per cent lower than 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u196	Then there's a payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u197	It's official statistics. You'll see her at the EUROSTATE.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u198	Then there's a payment...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u199	By the end of March, the fiscal reserve was 11 billion. BGN, approximately 12 " 13% of gross domestic product." If you take it out of the debt you're scaring people with, things will look completely different. By the way, I don't want the tone to be nagging or edgy, I want us to really have a debate on real policies. I expected today, for example, to open the debate on the reassignment role of the state, about the tax system, because you are offering alternative solutions to your own, relating to proportional income taxation and making it progressive, but you are not giving an answer to what you will do with the huge losses that the budget must suffer in this situation. Your internal contradictions about reducing debt and increasing investment in the economy do not help either me or the government or the public to understand in fact what alternative does the Bulgarian Parliament give, apart from the position that the government holds? By the way, here is the place to note that making decisions and bearing responsibility is the only correct definition of normal management. If there is any problem, it is that very few political parties can now bear responsibility for the management of the state. That is why we are before you today in this sustainable and balanced coalition in which we succeed, regardless of the unfavorable environment around us, to conduct the country the best way after the financial crisis. I stop there when I want to pay attention. In addition to supporting the decision, something that we stated at the beginning of today's debate, I can also state this: you are not helping to improve the quality of the political debate with this type of suggestion and with this type of debate. I don't want to be nagging first fix your party case, then hold responsibility for the state! [[World and long applause and chanted by GERB: Bravo, bravo! Applause by RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u200	Mr. Donchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I won't say anything about the convention. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB]] But I would like to draw attention to the fact that Luc Graff Schverin von Crosig, who is Finance Minister of the Third Reich, has nothing to do with colleague Goranov. The only resemblance is maybe their short hairstyle. [[Laughter at GERB.]] First, I would like to ask for synchronization in these and in the speeches. I hear a vivid thesis that public spending should be increased. I don't quite accept it, but that's an acceptable thesis. At the same time, however, a representative of the same parliamentary group complained that public investment suppressed private investments. Which one is true? A little more synchronization, guys! [[Laughter at GERB.]] Then, there should be a colorful debate in the room, but it's not good to talk ridiculously. There are young people who have all graduated from the VIII or IX class, and tell them that only one third of gross domestic product is created in the real economy, is not serious, will laugh at you. Then learn to count. Do you know what gross domestic product is? [[BSP and DPS lines.]] How were the 19 billion euros, how was the 2 percent of the gross domestic product?! It's over 40%. Over 40%, not 1 or 2%. [[Relations of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] How was our economy based on public procurement when the entire value of all public procurement, for example, for 2015, is 7 or 8% of gross domestic product? We're talking about financial corrections here. I'm not scared, but when I listen to you, I'll get scared too. We were in danger of being stopped by the Rural Development Programme. How do they stop it? She's done. It ended at the end of last year! There was a danger that we wouldn't get our money back. But they restored them to us! There's 3 million left to cover. [[Laughter at GERB.]] It looks like you're scared of the pictures you paint yourself, which are not good things. And a basic statement.... in the economy very rarely miracles happen. Very rarely! But it's very common for you to do stupid things. Unfortunately, the majority of the nonsense is done under the maxim Let the state help! Because, colleagues, it is helpfully forgotten that when the state has to help one person, I'm not talking about the socially weak, I'm talking about one business, it has to take money from another. It's simple! I'm not saying that we shouldn't; I'm not saying that we can't, but I'm saying that we should be careful and cautious when we do it. In the priority hierarchy, first of all, it must be how best to spend, to spend, to invest the 10 billion euros available. Secondly, to strive for every lev we invest to bring more value. Because there are large reserves and only then to think about new public spending. A conceptual question " Members," what is the link between budget spending as a percentage of gross domestic product and economic growth? What is it? None. It's at best, not to say we have reason to look for feedback. There are many sources, take out the scale for member states with a reference to what part of the public spending of gross domestic product is. Please refer to their growth rate for 2015. [[(Comments from GERB. (Laughter)]] All countries with high growth are at the bottom of the scale where public spending is a relatively low share of gross domestic product. And one last thing. Colleagues, it is time to stop thinking of the economy as paragraphs in the budget. Luckily, she's a lot more. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u202	I don't see any willing MPs from the groups that have time. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I recall that during the debates no editorial proposals were made on the draft decision. Mrs. Ninova read it correctly. I put to the vote a draft decision concerning the debate on questions No 654-05-30 of 26 February 2016 by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the financial policy of the government. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. [[Loud applause from GERB and DPS.]] The draft decision has been adopted unanimously, which is why I cannot give the floor for a negative vote. Everyone is in favour of the Project Decision. Thank you to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and Minister Goranov. [[The GERB representatives congratulate Minister Goranov.]] Dear colleagues, as Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin is late, we will start by answering the questions to Minister Vejdi Rashidov. We're expecting Minister Rashidov in the hall. [[Incoming Minister Vejdi Rashidov.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary. First to you will ask a question national representative Stanislav Stanilov about the destruction of a cultural monument in Veliko Tarnovo due to the inaction of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. We're listening, Professor. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In the third week of January 2016 the oldest house in Veliko Tarnovo collapsed, which is located on the street. "Nikola Piccolo" and belonged to Nicolas Picolo Anastasia's sister. The building is three centuries old and Vasil Levski stayed in it. Unlike many other cases, the current owner was concerned about preserving the building, which is a monument of culture. He has made a timely and appropriate request for permission to repair in due order to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, but due to negligence or for other reasons the permit has been slow for two years, during which irreparable damage has been done to the house and it is beginning to disintegrate. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what punishment will you impose on those responsible for the destruction of this monument of culture of national importance? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u204	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u205	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stanilov! The residential building, house "Kokona Anastasia" and town of Veliko Tarnovo has the status of a single real estate cultural property and was declared an architectural and construction monument of culture in 1964, category "Local importance." The house is situated within the boundaries of the property "Architectural and construction zone" - main street "Opalchenska" - "Picolo" - "Picolo" - "Ivan Vazov" - in the historical village of Veliko Tarnovo, monument of urbanism and cultural landscape with category "National significance." The National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage has been submitted for coordination under the Law on Cultural Heritage visa with the Bulgarian National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. No 94-00-556 of 10 July 2015 for the study and design of an investment project for the reconstruction of authentic data of destroyed parts of the building, restoration, adaptation for modern needs. With the opinion of the Ministry of Culture with e.g. No 33/HN/838 from 1 September 2015 the visa is agreed with the following requirements: to be imported under conditions and under the Cultural Heritage Act in detail architectural photographing of the building and its environment, photo documentation and constructive expertise on the physical condition of the building. With an inch. No 94-00-556 of 12 October 2015 at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage was submitted for coordination an investment project for the reconstruction of the residential building on authentic data, restoration and adaptation for modern needs, restoration of the existing massive fence and demarcation of the residential area in the covered area. The Ministry of Culture has coordinated the investment project with an opinion with ex. No 33/HN/838 of 16 December 2015 with requirements for drawing up a work project. In the preparation of the conciliation opinion, the designated in art. 84, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act a two-month period. The Directorate General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture will exercise control over the realization of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Stanilov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u207	It is one thing to restore a monument and another is to restore it in a ready authentic form. This house was announced on a cultural monument when I was a freshman student at Veliko Tarnovo University. Note that in 1964 the situation was quite different and the house had a completely different kind! Mr. Minister, all the details you have said have been very well arranged by your collaborators, but I do not understand who is specifically responsible for this big blunder, which is not the only one. Who should be responsible, who should be punished, who should bear something, because it can't go on like this! It's not just this house!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u208	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Right on the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u209	Mr. Chairman, dear Professor! I got up to answer you. Not only do I agree with you, I myself am the judge of not tearing down monuments of culture. You know my reaction to Plovdiv, to the Tobacco Joint. Thank you for your question. I'm gonna make a full check on who signed this thing to make it possible. I promise you that he will bear his responsibility because in Bulgaria many monuments are destroyed by carelessness here you are absolutely right. Soon I will try to tell you exactly who this happened to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov on the implementation of urgent restoration and conservation activities for the preservation of architectural and cultural heritage in Zheravna village. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Bulgaria is rich in cultural values of our movable and real cultural heritage. Over 200 houses of cultural value make Zheravna not only national but also world value included in UNESCO's list as a world architectural monument. Valuableness is the organization of the settlement organism Zheravna................... the surrounding water flow, the hillside, the backbone of the street network.. the main street, located in the east-west direction around which one of the most typical street schemes of Bulgaria has been woven since the time of the Renaissance. The houses here, with each other's arms to each other, create the unique ensemble. Another uniformity is replaced by a picturesque silhouette, created over centuries, is shaped gradually, but with a true sense of space, volume, details. The ensemble casually, with very thrift funds, tells about the wealth of Bulgarian architecture. The houses in Zheravna are a reflection of the development of entrepreneurship, of the growing self-esteem of the new production relations that influenced the spatial construction of the houses in Zheravna. In other words, the houses of the village are the lives of the people of XVII, XVIII, XIX century. The wealthy shepherd or merchant from Zheravna in the later period of the Renaissance builds and richer houses with interior decorations that reflect the growth of self-esteem of the man entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u212	Mr. Slavov, the question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u213	But a serious part of these houses are in danger of damage, of a visible loss of the authentic species. Dear Minister, taking into account your great concern for Bulgarian culture, I ask you the following question: what complex of urgent actions is the restoration and conservation of the village of Zheravna, a unique part of which is the remarkable world architectural monument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u214	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Minister Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Slavov, the real cultural values in the territory of Zheravna are 211, 11 of them are a category of national importance. The application of Zheravna conservation regimes by local authorities is one of the conditions for preserving the remarkable cultural heritage of the architectural reserve. Each year the Ministry of Culture finances activities in the field of conservation, restoration of real cultural values within the framework of the budgeted funds under the programme "Conservation of property heritage." Funds shall be allocated under approved rules. The right to such financial support shall be granted to owners or persons entitled to the management of real cultural values, scientific institutes, municipalities, museums upon the consent of the owner. In recent years the Ministry of Culture has not received requests for funding of activities for the preservation of real cultural values in the village of Zheravna. Upon request, it will be examined by the Commission appointed by the Minister of Culture and the Ministry will decide on the funding options for the requested sites and activities. The Ministry of Culture shall endeavour appropriately to spend limited financial resources to protect a cultural heritage of a different nature. At the same time, the Bulgarian legislator has regulated the national conservation system and has set certain commitments and responsibilities for different entities in it. In this context, the mayors of municipalities and municipal councils have the commitment to adopt the Strategy for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the territory of the municipality concerned, to establish a municipal fund, to organise and coordinate the implementation of the policy on the protection of cultural heritage and to provide funding by means of the municipal budget for the activities of conservation and promotion of cultural values. The Ministry of Culture conducts a policy aimed at increasing the potential of all participants and partners in the process of preserving cultural heritage in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u216	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Mr. Slavov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u217	Dear Minister, thank you for the correct answer. My question is a reflection of the responsibility that the museum workers from the Regional Historical Museum of Sliven and Kotel Municipality bear. I share your finding of a missing initiative by the local authorities, and I am truly sorry for that. But I also bring the belief that the results of the care for national cultural heritage are possible in the exclusive interaction between the personal initiative, local self-government and the authorities of the state. I would like to say that in one of the last meetings 20 days ago in the village of Zheravna, I was convinced how useful, active, effective the role of the state can be in the politics held, because in the years between 60th and 80th, there have been extremely many actions taken in the maintenance and restoration of this valuable world architectural heritage. I am sure that the country that took care of it could continue in an adequate, bearable financial form today. I am sure that the attitude you show over time to the cultural relations of our country is a prerequisite for expecting all of us, and the people of the Sliven region, more care and results in maintaining what makes us more Bulgarians, and it is the history, present and deeds of our ancestors who oblige us even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u218	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. You're giving up the right to the dot. The next question is from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on unacceptable defects in the newly renovated building of the National Gallery. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Minister! Outraged Bulgarian citizens presented to the media information that only eight months after the opening of the new National Gallery "Squadrat 500" a poor performance of the construction activities was found. The plaster fell in two of the halls. Luckily, no visitors were hurt, but the halls on the second floor were closed. Mr. Minister, this is a very old question, and I'm not sure I'm up to date. The works of art that are located there are sculptures of Andrey Nikolov and paintings of Tseno Todorov, Nikola Mihailov and Stefan Ivanov were evacuated. The gallery guide explains the cold incident recently and the melting of the snow that has fallen, damaged one of the building's control systems, which has led to ceiling subduing and tearing apart pieces of the plaster. Such an explanation is ridiculous for a building opened solemnly last year after repair of 27 million. lv. In this regard, I ask you to answer my second question is similar to the first question: who is responsible for the poor performance of this repair, how much will it cost to remove the damage and who will pay this money? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u220	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Professor! I'm sorry you're referring to the media for one simple reason. It's very sad when we have a 400-mile freeway to have fun with a two-mile crack. I think that's a little ridiculous. I'll answer you frankly. You should have asked perhaps questions to the previous government, which said, firstly, that there was nothing to put, and, secondly, closed the museum built, ready. They froze the steam installations, they burst. I didn't make any noise, we were able to repair and repair them. Yeah, of course, from the entire museum, which is 26,000 squares, it's a shame you weren't at the museum yesterday, in two squares the paint fell from condensation and cold. Yeah, that's true, but this isn't the entire museum. square meters by 2 meters, it's not right to insinuate people. It's remodeled, it's recovered, it's running hot now, it's temperamental inside. I reply to you that after we have created after 60 years a nice European museum of Bulgaria, here is already present Born, present the largest Western European artists, we brought Picasso from Malaga, now we will bring Juan Miro. finally we have a home where we invite great European artists, and it is insulting for 2 square meters to make public statements. Repair's been done. Of course, they've cut 2 square meters of moisture, they've climbed, they're on parole. Those who have repaired, they will pay for it. The museum is on bail for another year. That's my answer, Mr. Stanilov. I answer you with all due respect. It's been repaired, the work is done, the damage is paid by the guarantee the builders owe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u222	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. A line, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u223	That must be the answer. If they paid for the repairs, that means there's nothing more to be said. In connection with your statement before you tell me who paid, I must tell you this: when it comes to such violations, there is little and large. Everything's the same because the little one always leads to the big one. This damage is not a big deal. The point is that these damages are on, as they say, your favorite child I don't mind, even though I'm an opposition. I mean, I have a weakness for art, and I'm kind of a connoisseur. From a young dream Bulgaria to have a real National Gallery, which has a permanent great exhibition with European artists, with old Bulgarian artists who have been undeservedly passed by so far. I will return to this: every MP must not miss such violations and must ask the Minister, and this is his duty to answer properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u224	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Minister Rashidov, you're giving up the right to the doppelganger. A question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov on taking effective measures by the Ministry of Culture for the preservation of cultural heritage and literary values and the creation of guarantees for their copyright holders. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is entirely in connection with the scandal that broke out at the end of January, regarding the issuance of the two sign Bulgarian novels by Dimitar Talev, namely the Iron Lamp and the Spanish Bells in the Republic of Macedonia. I look at the second level of the plenary because I expect here in the National Assembly the grandson of Dimitar Talev to come. In itself, what has happened is scandalous because I know that copyright bearers are the successors here, Mr. Talev is entering. Here you go. You have no direct relation to copyright, but my deep belief is that the Bulgarian State is obliged to effectively protect the preservation of cultural heritage, including the country's literary and literary values. In itself, the case is quite unpleasant and because there is a clear and brutal replacement and editing in the content of these emblematic works for Bulgarian literature. I am even more worried about the fact that the novels are published under the hat and auspices of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Macedonia. For information, I would like to mention that the word "Bulgarian" in the two novels was replaced by the word "Macedonian" which is really scandalous. In this regard, it is also my specific question to you: what effective measures by the Ministry of Culture have been taken to preserve cultural heritage, literary values and to create guarantees for their copyright holders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u226	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. I took the liberty of extending the time since the question you are asking is important. The attempts to forge Bulgarian history and literature in Macedonia are not one and two. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer from Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Antonov! In connection with the unofficial information in the press since the end of January 2016 on the issue of the two emblematic novels of the Bulgarian writer Dimitar Talev, the Zhelezna candlestick and the Spanish bells in the Republic of Macedonia without legal copyright, I can inform you that an official message from the heirs of the author on this issue has not been received in the Ministry of Culture. You are aware that copyrights belong to so-called private, personal rights, and they are protected civilly by the author or his successors. In cases where he died, in cases where it was established and proved that the author's works were issued without his consent, he could file a case. The Court may award an end to the infringement and the corresponding payment of compensation for the wrongful issue of the novels. In the present case, Dimitar Talev's heirs should take the actions described above to establish the infringement. Actions can be carried out by themselves or by the writer's literary agent. The Ministry of Culture requested information from the Bulgarian Cultural Information Centre in Skopje to determine whether the novels were published in the Republic of Macedonia without the consent of the heirs of the author, as well as to establish who was the publisher and when the books were published. A Programme for Cooperation between the Cultural Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia for the Protection of Copyrights in the Field of Art, Study and Scientific Literature is signed. In this regard, the Ministry of Culture has sent an official request to the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Macedonia through our Foreign Ministry to clarify the case and, accordingly, to stop the illegal distribution of novels. I must inform you that 10 days ago the Minister of Culture of Macedonia was at a meeting with me here in Bulgaria, in our ministry and its question was raised, directly at this gathering. Once copies of the book are provided to us, an expert will be carried out to establish copyright violations in case there are abbreviations, word replacements, expressions or violation of the integrity of the work in any way without the consent of the successors of the author. Professional expertise could best make specialists-linguists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In addition to the official steps taken by the state institutions, the heirs can file a case for the protection of the rights of the Bulgarian writer and receive appropriate compensation for their copyright violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u228	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, Dear Minister Rashidov, Dear Mr Talev! I have no doubt in your patriotism, you have proved it repeatedly, but I believe that the border has been crossed and it is coming out of the agreements between two ministries. In my opinion, despite the good neighbourly relations we have, we need a much more serious attitude, and it can be in several directions because we have a replacement of history, a replacement of a very serious part of Bulgarian history. We ourselves have an interest in the rapid accession of the Republic of Macedonia to the European Union, and in this direction also needs to look for ways of impact. At the moment, the negotiations are under way on the individual accession chapters, and I believe that it is precisely with regard to cultural heritage that this issue should be raised so as not to repeat such situations, and they are important for our national history. The other two directions, where I am adamant that we need to change things despite the private nature of copyrights, I have no doubt, and we will assist Mr Talev in seeking these rights in judicial order, and what we need to cooperate with, but I think we need two changes in very important laws here. One change is in the Copyright Act and the other is in the Cultural Heritage Act. I will initiate such changes accordingly to protect national interests. In general, thank you for your reply and for your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u230	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of the back? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u231	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Of course there's been an unfortunate incident, unfortunately. I can firmly say that neither the Ministry of Culture, the Foreign Ministry, nor the Bulgarian legislation can take any blame for what has happened. I specifically said that the copyrights belonged to the family in the face of his son and that there was no claim against us. Nevertheless, we have reacted. Of course, this is a gross violation of the rights, especially of an author such as Talev, and who would be a Bulgarian author. What we can do by law is ask the Macedonian State again, ask the Macedonian State again to stop issuing, ask again for expertise to see what is broken and pay the necessary remuneration to the heirs who hold the copyright. This is a common cause, our door is open, as is for the family, and as you have said, to cooperate. I'll cooperate, we're all on it. Unfortunately, that gives us the possibilities of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Culture is from the MP Vili Lilkov about the state and prospects for development of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u233	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Dear Minister Rashidov, dear colleagues! I asked this question on 17 February this year, when the debate on the Law on Cultural Heritage began. The changes that were introduced into the Law directly relate to the fate and future functions of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and in this regard I asked a question in which I aimed to challenge a clear and clear position of the Ministry of Culture with regard to the short-term measures and the vision it has with regard to NIKN. The National Institute is an institution with more than 60 years of history, national significance, but in recent years, because of, I would say, poor personnel policy or disinterest, it has fallen into a very grave state of mind and personnel, and financially, which has led to very serious difficulties in the work that we all find today. The register of real cultural values has not been updated, is not publicly available. The National Documentary Archive is also not publicly available, is not entered in electronic form. The state of NIKN continues to be very limited, the files are delayed for years and sometimes lead to irreparable consequences. In this sense, I ask you the following three questions: What are the medium-term measures that you will take as Minister of Culture for the personnel and financial strengthening of the Institute? Will you cause quick action in terms of updating the Register of Real Cultural Values and making it electronic, publicly accessible, as well as the National Documentary Archive? What is the vision of the Ministry of Culture regarding the future of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u234	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. The word is Minister Rashidov to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Lilkov! The National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage shall carry out research, expert, registration projects, design and qualification archive activities, service citizens and legal entities. The number of staff at the Institute according to the Ministry of Education No 265 of November 2013 is 57 stats. In January 2015, the number of statutory staff decreased by 12 units. Currently, the Institute has unoccupied staff, which is mainly due to low pay. The budget is insufficient to cover the costs of preparing comprehensive documentation. In order to optimize the current work of the Institute, the following measures are envisaged: interaction of the Institute with municipalities, universities, museums, natural and legal persons in the process of issuing and studying real cultural heritage and values; identification of clear criteria for evaluation of declared sites and optimization of the work of declared, providing or replacing the status of real cultural values; restructuring of directorates; connection between the business systems of the Institute and the Ministry and shaping and maintenance of the website of the Institute. In November 2015 the Ministry of Culture updated the Road map for the implementation of the Sectoral Strategy..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... and noted the need to build and improve the electronic register related to movable and immovable cultural heritage. In February 2016, we submitted to the Electronic Governance Council a proposal to coordinate and complement the roadmap in order to finance the projects identified by the Operational Programme. Each vision of the future functioning of the Institute is related to an amendment of the Cultural Heritage Act. In my previous term, opportunities were sought for change. All proposals from the Ministry met the disagreement of the Institute and most professional organizations involved in this process. Proposals for the future functioning of the Institute will be made after the adoption of the final texts of the present Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, my question has achieved its goal. I understand, Mr. Rashidov, that the Ministry does not have a clear vision of the fate of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, because you have just answered me: the vision will be determined after the changes in the Law. But please, Mr. Rashidov, at the moment working groups have been submitted proposals between first and second readings regarding changes in the Law. If we as MPs have your vision, professionally developed, we will support you, discuss it and help us make a clear decision in the debates on the amendments to the Law. If the Ministry continues to remain silent, tolerates Parliament's decisions and does not interact with the MPs, it is a great risk of making wrong decisions. Currently, the main debate is in the following: should regional units be created, subordinate to the mayors of the municipalities, dealing with cultural heritage, with local monuments, or should NIKN establish its regional units? This is a question of a clear vision in the future of how this institution will develop. In one case we will strengthen a national institution, decentralise and defocus its activities by creating regional units of NIKN, and in the other case we will send things to the mayors and the system will start to develop differently. So please very much bring your vision, professionally designed to help the MPs. This actually concerns the fate of an institution which is directly linked to the fate of the national real cultural heritage. Thank you and I expect to actually hear the voice of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u238	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Rashidov has the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lilkov, you misunderstand me! The law will give us the opportunity to do one thing - the monuments of local importance - to be able to unload the activities of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage (NINK) for one simple reason. There is no institute in Bulgaria that processes 15 thousand per year. the project. The burden is very great, the budget is very small. You remember, I am one of the ministers who always says that the budget of culture is very small and I am constantly asking you to adopt a better budget because really the lowest paid staff are in the area of culture. I didn't hide it, I keep saying it all the time, instead of being happy with the budget. That 15,000. files very difficult, direct forces are processed by 50 people, of which only fifteen, twenty are old, good professionals. With low wages, we can't attract experts, that's the truth! We are therefore waiting for the law, Mr. Lilkov, so that the smaller things, those of local importance and the problems of national importance, regional municipalities and centres have the rights, of course, under the control of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and, of course, experts from the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage to perform functions, which will also be a structure, but it will ease the activity. Of course, the concerns are all of us, and I, as Minister, do not feel comfortable. The good that is now being discussed and hopeful for me is, for example, in the electronic government that is being done, to bring into this NIKN programme and indeed this will ease, because people will have more direct access to information, to blueprints, to projects, to answers. You're right. A lot of responses to imported projects are slowing down. That's right! They're slowing down. It's two months. I know it. And yet people work tirelessly. I don't want to talk bad about people, sometimes they just smoke out of work. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u240	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I address the Bulgarian MPs, the Bulgarian government, the Ministry of Justice, the Bulgarian services, including security, and I would like to introduce you to the following problem. For nearly a month, Bulgarians abroad have been suffering from Bulgarian administration, Bulgarian institutions. For a month now, the Ministry of Justice and, more precisely, the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship has sabotaged the recognition of the origin of Bulgarians from different countries around the world, including Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u242	And not just them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u243	In the last month, hundreds of Bulgarians from Macedonia and other countries were denied Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds that the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship (Bulgarian citizenship) has estimated that these people have no origin, despite the existence of all necessary documents on their part, the existence of a document by Bulgarian organization, the existence of a document by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, including attached documents of their relatives and relatives who have received Bulgarian citizenship in the last 20 years as Bulgarians from abroad. Currently, the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship and the Council of Citizenship, where the opinion of the Ministry of Justice is evidently respected, do not recognise that two sisters, who received Bulgarian citizenship on the grounds that they have Bulgarian origin, are denied their second citizenship because, you see, her sister has Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of Bulgarian origin, but there are no documents that she has such origin, which is complete absurd! That is, the Council of Citizenship and the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship and the Ministry of Justice have denied their decisions for the last 15 years, i.e. those institutions that have taken decisions and offered these people as Bulgarians of origin, are now saying: these decisions of ours are obviously either wrong or wrong or we do not know. For us IMRO, this is a national betrayal! This is insane for us! The Bulgarian citizenship department has become something close to deities or God. They are the people who interpret the law and do not have the right to interpret the law; they are the people who decide the human judgments; they are the people who are unattainable for years for any government or National Assembly. How long are we gonna put up with this?! The scarier part is this. Unfortunately, and certain circles may have also taken action and pressure in our national security institutions in this direction, and, you see, according to them, Bulgarians abroad receiving Bulgarian citizenship threatened national security; you see, the Bulgarians from Macedonia or Albania, or wherever they were from, should not have been so easily given citizenship because they could endanger national security. Well, it's your job to identify these persons. The transcripts go through the NSA, do they jeopardize national security or not? I mean, do your job. However, it is easier for them to process only five or ten thousand files a year because they had no capacity for more. But we don't care about that! We are interested in compliance with the Bulgarian Constitution, which clearly and categorically states that every Bulgarian in the world, who has Bulgarian origin, can receive Bulgarian citizenship in any case. The deadline for this is one year. Currently, there have been files since 2012, which have not been considered. There are over five thousand files that hold them for further processing to prove their Bulgarian origin. I am sorry if it is not clear to any official that the people of Macedonia are of Bulgarian origin, he has no business in the Bulgarian state administration. He's a national traitor! We therefore insist that this problem be dealt with urgently, otherwise we will take all legal measures towards these employees and these institutions. I'll add a much more interesting fact to the whole situation. Bulgarians abroad threatened national security according to our services. Interestingly, every month hundreds of Turkish citizens receive Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of a parent who has Bulgarian citizenship. They don't jeopardize national security. There's no problem for them, they don't give up. And I ask: modern Turkey, ruled by Erdogan, modern Turkey, which showed that it has claims to both the Balkan Peninsula and North Africa, and to the whole Middle East, modern Turkey, which turns the secular state into an Islamic state, Bulgarian services agree that these people will receive Bulgarian citizenship. Those people who have already grown up there, those people who have already raised them in a completely different model, not in the secular model, which was decades ago in Turkey, in a completely different model, there are no problems for them and they do not endanger national security. But the Bulgarians, you see, from Macedonia, Albania, Serbia, Moldova, Ukraine, Romania or anywhere in the world, are a problem of the Bulgarian state. Well, to that question, as a citizen of our country, I can hardly answer what's going on. That is why we insist that both the government and the Ministry of Justice and all the institutions on which this process depends should not interpret the laws, which is not their job, but to implement them! All those people who have been illegally denied citizenship in recent years have been re-examined. I'm done with this. Starting today, we're going to ask for resignations. The first one that we from IMRO want is to be removed from office the director of the Directorate of the Bulgarian Citizenship.The person who refuses contact with the Bulgarian organizations abroad, the person who is called by all institutions and he does not answer the phone, the person who is the main conductor of the anti-Bulgarian ones in this Directorate and prepares an opinion for each case. We want this person to be removed from there and to be put up with people who are Bulgarian patriots who will protect national interests and Bulgarians abroad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u244	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Bozhinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u245	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I admire your content and your position with the request of resignation. There are, however, far more fracturing cases? The two young daughters have received citizenship and the mother does not receive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u246	The procedure should be to me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u247	The procedure is for you, Mr. Chairman. You, as well as the honourable MP, are members of the political ruling majority of Bulgaria. The resignation is the last and if they give it to you, the question is within the ruling majority to find a solution and this anti-Bulgarian approach to be denied and overcome. I also call on you, Mr President, as a member of this patriotic part of the ruling majority, and for you as an importer to not be satisfied with this declaration, within the ruling majority to seek a solution and realization. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u248	Thank you. I didn't understand the procedure for me to lead the meeting, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u249	To continue this line politically, because we're finishing up, and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u250	I am currently in the role of leading parliamentary control. I understand your message, I hope other people have understood it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u251	You're an open-minded man, and I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u252	We continue with the questions to the Minister of Culture Mr. Rashidov. The next question is again by the MP Willy Lilkov about the restoration of the Vidin synagogue. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Rashidov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, I want to thank Minister Rashidov for the answer I received. There is clear concern about NINK's fate. I assure you that together we will find the best solution for both NINK's fate and the fate of real cultural heritage. In fact, my second question to you is also related to the Vidin synagogue. Built for two years as a prayer home, the third year began to work. For it the money was collected by the Vidin public, mostly the Jewish community, and this happened at the end of the 19th century. Shining building, ornament of the Vidin City Garden, At the moment this beautiful building, this symbol of the city is turned into a ruin. There's almost nothing left of this building, but it's still standing magnificently on its foundations and waiting for someone to take care of it. In 2009 the Ministry of Culture received a free use of the building by the organization of Jews in Bulgaria..Shalom. in order to restore it as a prayer home and, of course, to restore it. Since then, nothing has been done for her restoration. A series of talks and meetings started, which were informal, both in the Ministry of Culture and in the organization of the Jews, and in the Vidin municipality, we talked with you, Mr. Rashidov. Since I have seen no solution and no movement on this subject for more than a year, I have decided to formalise these efforts with my first question to you and therefore I ask the following question: What will the Ministry of Culture do to save this valuable cultural monument, and what were the reasons why so far nothing would happen on this national cultural monument, I stress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u254	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr. Lilkov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u255	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I'm a little stressed. I thought the question of Bulgarian citizens was for me and I was just about to prepare to answer without an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u256	No, it was a Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u257	I was just about to ask you: after 100 years a request of the Bulgarian exarchies is nice to check when there are notary documents and who has helped this so that I can join the Bulgarian patriots?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u258	That's right! Many of them are sponsors of the Bulgarian...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u259	Thank you. Mr. Lilkov, I will not read, because this question is also my pain. It is an exceptional architecture in the center of Vidin, an outstanding architectural monument of culture in the center of Vidin. I will only inform you: we have negotiated with Shalom to transfer it to us so that we can take advantage of the opportunity to apply under the programme. In my previous term, I've assigned to the Ministry of Culture an architectural project that's on my desk, I've got it. This architectural project was worth a little bit, but it was a worthy, good project. We applied for two sites... Babini Vidin towers.... and for the Synagogue. Unfortunately, the synagogue and I were unable to qualify at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for a simple reason that the property continues to belong to Shalom. We just asked them to transfer it to us so we could work on projects. Even if we did, we'd deactivate them, of course, for people to enjoy it. It was made as a very interesting project in the name of Jules Paskin as a cultural and spiritual center and much more functional than just a temple. I'm not gonna hide from you that ten days ago I sat down to talk to the Prime Minister. That's the theme: the synagogue again. Thanks to the Prime Minister, you've been understanding and you've put him up to it a little bit. Of course, we need funds. The reason is we don't have the money and there's not enough money. It'll cost no less than $5 million. We pretty much calculated it with engineers. The repairs are heavy and big. It seems that the ageless has ruined a large part of the building, but it is still possible to restore it. I will do my best as long as I am a minister, I promise you, because this is also my cause, related to one of the best artists in the world, Jules Paskin, who is from Vidin. Of course, it will be a wonderful gift for the Jews in Bulgaria too, and it is very nice for Vidin to have a monument in the center of Vidin. In general, for the whole of Bulgaria this is a very nice object to recover. You're always welcome. We'll fight. I am counting on the Prime Minister to love spiritual temples and, saying this, of course, I do not want to advertise it, but I deeply hope that when we think about finding one. I think that in the general budget it is permissible to find such money and really save this beautiful building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u260	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u261	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Thank you, Minister Rashidov. In fact, this is a very serious step after the last talks we have had. From here, I thank the Prime Minister for taking this cause to heart. I know that it is yours, too, since you told me that if there is any monument of culture that you need to restore in this term, it is the Vidin synagogue in the first place. I'll help you as much as I can. Remember from me, as they remember you well about the cross barracks, so they will remember you well about the Vidin synagogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u262	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. I think much more will remain Mr. Vejdi Rashidov as Minister. Do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u263	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u264	Thank you, too. We continue with the questions to Minister Rashidov. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the state of the Bulgarian Saints, Monument of Freedom, Monument of the National Park-Museum. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The monument of freedom is a symbol of the Bulgarian people's appreciation for the feat of the Russian warriors and Bulgarian militias and has ensured the freedom and independence of Bulgaria, and is a monumental sculpture of the peak. ♪ St. John's Day ♪ Nikola "The National Park" is part of the National Park "Museum" "Shipka" "Buzludja". The idea for the construction of the Monument was proposed during the National Assembly on 13 April 1879 by the MPs Petko Karavelov, Peter Beron and Petko Rachov Slaveykov. They come up with a proposal in the construction of the Monument to participate the whole Bulgarian people because, I quote: This Monument will serve for the future as a guide star for our accession. It will attract people and gather together the sights of Bulgarians from all over Bulgaria. Construction began in 1926 and lasted about five years, difficult working conditions. The official opening of the Monument is 1934. Now, nearly 82 years later, disturbing signals about its condition arrive from everywhere. The familiars claim that the monument is crumbling and needs a complete repair. The last repair of the construction was done in the mid-'80s and now, I didn't notice this, but claim that there are cracks on the body of the huge bronze lion, the soldering is bare, every rain causes floods in the Monument, water flows down the stairs leading to the inner floors. It is necessary to urgently look at the facade and everything else, to decide exactly what repairs and conservation activities should be undertaken in order to proceed to repair. In this regard, Minister, my question is: Are you familiar with the condition of the Monument? What actions will you and your ministry take so that the priceless Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage in the face of this Monument will shine in its full brilliance and carry out the mandate of our first MPs to gather together the sights of Bulgarians from all over Bulgaria? Also, an important question is: within what deadlines can we do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u266	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Rashidov has the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov! I always get scared, especially when I hear yelling that Bulgaria is dying, monuments are dying, culture is dying. I'm always scared because I'm a part of culture, and I really don't want to die with this whole thing. The noise was like with the horse there were several cracks, there was a danger in time that horse, which is several tons, would fall on a smart protestor, a young man and kill him. You know the noise we made about changing legs. As you can see, today the horse is in place, it is the same, no problem. Of course, for Shipka I jumped the same way. Of course it's a national monument, we shouldn't be allowed to do that if there are problems, we should react immediately. I sent two committees to the Ministry of Inspectorate. It was established that the lion was not ruptured, but in time some carriages were greened because it was boiled into parts, killed some salts in bronze.....................................and as they cleaned the fountain..Trebey last year was all green, so this lion must be cleaned and where, of course, there is a need for restoration intervention will be done, Mr. Gyokov. What is more important, and for which I thank you for the question, is to inform you that we have found, however, many other violations that have occurred over time concerning the Monument of Buzludzha. I saw a report in which they said: "Well, it flows from the water stone. "The water stone can never run, but on the stone it is possible as it rains, so there are no problems in the Monument. The monument wants a refreshment, a cleanup. He's in stable condition. The lion also wants replanting, tightening and all that concerns restoration-conservation activities after all these years, it is good to do and will be done. What we have established is: an unresolved status in the property that needs to be corrected; a non-up-to-date regulations on the device and the activity of this also need to be corrected; a lack of documentation on permanent exposure.. also needs to be corrected; illegal conservation and restoration activities.. also needs to be done; gaps in keeping inventory books. All of this needs to be tightened up and done; a lack of signal-security equipment with subscription to the licensed company must also be introduced in order. I also thank you for the citizens' signal, and thank you for your question. I'll tell you a happy news: we already have a sponsor to help with the funds. A few days ago, we met with the leaders of Bylla, we signed a contract, so we will take all the measures for Shipka and, of course, a national monument that covers not only the Bulgarian heroes who fell under Shipka, but more than 12 names I have also brought out participants in this war and Turks, which is very interesting, and for me it was very interesting, so in their memory we will keep the Monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u269	Thank you for that answer. I have never been in doubt that you are aware that long ago the Monument is not just a geographical concept, but has become one of the highest peaks in our history. I asked the question shortly before March 3rd and I had the opportunity to visit Buzludja twice afterwards and to look carefully at the Monument. I met a lot of people, including the director of the Park Museum Shipka Buzludja, assured me that things are really not so tragic. Mr. Minister, and what you said about the problems with any lack of funds in culture, because it is very difficult to be a Minister of Culture in a poor country where culture is the last concern and should not be the case. It should not affect this lack of funds negatively on the monuments of our culture at all. Maybe Bulgaria tomorrow will become a normal and rich country and then we can afford to spend more money on culture and on our monuments. If we do not now unite with joint efforts around their conservation, there is nothing to protect and be proud of the Bulgarians afterwards. We will leave this world, but Bulgaria will have it and we have left a clue in history that we have done our best to preserve and preserve this property will be a big deal. I would like to conclude a little more patrioticly: Bulgarian, bowed before this holy place a sacred monument of eternal friendship between Bulgarians and blonds, crowned with their blood our freedom! In order to have a place where the Bulgarian really, as these inscriptions say, to cross over the Monument of Freedom must remain in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u270	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u271	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gokov, it's a good thing you're asking cultural questions, and it's less common, but look, I'll be honest. I'm always trying to be honest, and life is short and it's better to be honest and honest in it. When the earthquake took place in Pernik, Mr. Gokov, I entered Alexander Nevsky, as well as in all temples to see if there were damage to the domes and anywhere from the earthquake from Pernik to Sofia. Then I noticed there were two or three cracks, but they weren't scary, they were for repair. The frescoes of Alexander Nevsky and, of course, here are very serious repairs. Then I asked who is the owner because the owner mainly has the care to apply, to take care of, to keep the owner. Then we found out that Alexander Nevski had no property. This was also with Trapezitsa in Tarnovo, and this was with many objects that we had a very difficult time deactivating and, thank God, that I began digging for the property and Mr. Bliznashki managed to hand out against an order, of course, and the ownership of the notary act. There's nothing wrong with that. It's beautiful. Of course, monuments in Bulgaria not only have to be preserved... Yesterday in Sandanski we found an extremely good thing for the memory of the Bulgarian. In a few days I invite you to the opening of the Largo is ready. Please, it's ours, all of us. I invite you as responsible Bulgarians a place to be proud that there is no analogue in the European capitals we are lucky to have. Mr. Gokov, 40,000 are monuments. You are right that the money is not enough, but we have not stopped from the Red Church from the previous term until now, I can list you more than 30 archaeological, historical and cultural monuments, which with sorrow, but we have recovered them and need money. We must also keep Bulgaria's memory, we must keep Bulgaria's history, because a people without history has no future, there is nothing to lie about. I, as an artist, am well aware of that. Thank you for asking me this hard, but we have to deal with it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Vezhdi Rashidov is from the national representative Georgi Turnovaliyski about the demolition of a 100-year-old building on Blvd. 8 in the city of Plovdiv. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, on the weekends after the national holiday of March 3rd, ancient and eternal Plovdiv, the city of the Renaissance Spirit and the Unification, which is due to be the European Capital of Culture in 2019, has been the victim of the consecutive investment barbarism. Private entrepreneurial interest has brutally affected one of the most beautiful buildings on Street. "Odrin" No 8 in the City of Tobacco. Only the rapid civil reaction of Plovdiv saved the Tobacco warehouse from final destruction, but the facade has already been demolished, the building is severely compromised and could collapse at any moment. The specialists are adamant that this is one of the most beautiful buildings in the city of Tobacco, and the murals of the famous Plovdiv artist Valchan Petrov adorn the inner walls. The warehouse was built 100 years ago and falls within the scope of a group monument. Under this status, any renewal, repair or new construction must be agreed with the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. According to media publications, the warehouse itself is a cultural monument. In the forthcoming household of Plovdiv as the European Capital of Culture 2019 the space called Tobacco City will perform a significant function in the overall concept as an emblematic place for cultural events. Mr. Minister, my question to you is as follows: is the cultural monument of the said building a tobacco warehouse; has it entered the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage a request for opinion or coordination of the demolition activities of the said building on 8th Street? "Odrin " No 8; what is shown by your inspection who has granted permission for demolition activities, who is responsible for the destruction of this architectural jewel in the center of Plovdiv, who will bear the blame for the destruction of the building? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Minister Rashidov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, I hope you're from Plovdiv. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski.]] Bless you! Of course, Plovdiv is a beloved city not only from Plovdiv. According to data from the National Institute of Real Estate by letter of 1975, the building was declared an architectural monument of culture from the period 1880 to 1920 in the city of Plovdiv, under No 32 of the list. In addition, the building of the Tobacco Warehouse, with property belonging to the territory with the status of group architectural and construction monument of culture, a system of street. Ivan Vazov, ul. "Tsanko Dustabanov" included in the territorial scope of the historical zone "Philipopolis" "Trimontium" "Plovdiv" which is a group monument of culture, which makes even more sense to the warehouse itself as a monument of culture. So far, I've read what's in numbers, but I'll give you a straight answer. You all know my position on Tobacco Warehouse. Yes, by law, the right of the Ministry of Culture to stop further demolition, for which I am very sorry, but it is not our job to sit next to the monument and monitor, but we have immediately sent out checks. What the law allows us is to give a prediction, and it is on the principle: break-buy. This monument must be restored. And I'm not reading to tell you one thing. Look, there are laws. It's impossible in the center of Paris to tear down buildings, to put on vinkelas, to stretch pants. And when they wanted modern architects to express their talent and their abilities, the Paris City Hall and their state pointed to Defansa and they made a wonderful business center with a second Triumphal Arch, but not inside Paris. In this regard, let's stop destroying the character, history and face of our cities, building glass, hotels in the center where there are unique buildings. So part of Ruse we ruined, part of Vidin we ruined, which culture came along the Danube, we got involved in the centers of many cities. As long as I'm a minister, here I tell you, I've never allowed the status of a cultural monument to be removed. I will fight Bulgaria to keep its history and face. As long as I'm a minister, this warehouse needs to be restored. There's nothing dramatic about it. As one thing breaks down, so it can be restored, so we will ask the owners who have taken unusual measures. In 2014, the municipality was officially informed that this was a cultural monument by letter of the Ministry of Culture. So when the whole of Bulgaria knows that this is a monument of culture and only the main architect of Plovdiv does not know, it bothers me slightly. I'm sorry to tell you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We will all work together to send the monument back to Plovdiv for 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u276	Line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u277	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. It's been a long time since you asked the question. Things have evolved. It became clear what the city didn't do, what it did. Here was also important what you said you were definitely with a prescription to rebuild the building. This is what all Plovdiv expect. We welcome, of course, and I think that this should be the policy of every government, of every ministry of culture, to stop the destruction of history, of culture. What I wanted to comment on is related to the question that my colleague asked about the powers that will be given to municipalities. We have also made such a proposal, but we are afraid that the powers they will receive will not endanger precisely the way that we are now commenting on, the cultural heritage that will be given to them for management if they are not subject to the Ministry's submission but are subject to subordination of the municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u278	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u279	Madam President, honourable Members! In two words. It will also be under the control as a type of branch of the mother Institute for Cultural Monuments. So we will have a link, coordination and, of course, control of the activity and all together we will know. It is better to have more case files, to be able to unblock the traffic jam that most people and institutions suffer from than to continue to suffer with many case files and few workers. So there will be control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u280	Thank you. Next, a question of the National Representative Antony Trenchev regarding the use and publication of geographical information systems for real cultural heritage. We're listening, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, on 6 March 2016 due to non-compliance in the informational arrays between Plovdiv Municipality and the authorities of your ministry in charge, the destruction of real estate cultural property is allowed. The status of the building was unclear as it was part of a group cultural value and not individually described as such. The media reported that the status of another important site for our country was similar to the bridge in Lovech. Group cultural values are not described in a publicly accessible register with their geographical boundaries, which is why municipal administrations cannot verify whether or not a building is a real cultural heritage. At the same time, it is not clear whether there is at all a geographical information system that describes all objects of real cultural heritage. This should be a priority in introducing elements of the e-government in the Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the government's policy for the phased electronicisation of the administration. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: is there a geographical information system of the Ministry of Culture or of its subordinate departments that contains the cartographic type of boundaries of all real cultural heritage sites in the Republic of Bulgaria? Does the Ministry of Culture have plans to build such a geographical information system and are funds provided for this? And one last thing. If the Geographic Information System exists, does the Ministry of Culture plan to make it publicly available on the Internet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u282	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. To answer, Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u283	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Trenchev! The creation of specialized maps and registers of real cultural heritage is a commitment of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. The arrangements for the development and maintenance of specialized maps and registers of real cultural heritage shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. In November 2011, by my order an Interdepartmental Working Group was established to prepare a draft of this regulation. Due to various circumstances related to management and structural changes, the work was discontinued in spring 2013 and the project was not finalised. A new working group has been appointed to familiarize with the texts drawn up so far and finalize the draft regulation. Currently, the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage reflects the borders, areas, real estate cultural value proposed by the Interdepartmental Commission on digital models of a cadastral map or a sample of the structure plan, a map of restoration property, a lesos planning plan or a topographic map officially provided by the relevant departments. The map drawn up is an integral part of the Commission report and is made available to the departments involved, as well as to the municipalities concerned. Graphic materials are stored at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and are accessible to municipalities, offices, natural and legal persons under the legal order. In November 2015, the Ministry of Culture updated the roadmap for the implementation of the sectoral strategy "E-Culture 2014" (E-Culture 2020) "In February 2016 the Ministry submitted a proposal to the Council for Electronic Management by Operational Programme "Good Governance 2014 " 2020" of projects related to the construction and improvement of electronic registers, the development of systems for storage, processing, presentation and use of cultural heritage formation, the development and introduction of electronic services and the establishment of public databases. The information from the archaeological studies is included in an automated information system. The Archaeological map of Bulgaria. Information from a database shall be provided to departments, municipalities, natural and legal persons in accordance with the procedure laid down by the regulation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u284	The line, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u285	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Thank you for that answer. I believe that the efforts your Ministry is making are in the right direction. I am quite glad that there has been so much noise around this case, which is also an additional guarantee that such a heavy gaffe with cultural heritage will soon not be able to repeat after this sharp media resonance. I would really like to call on you to do this register in the best possible way, not to save money there, as there are sufficient funds allocated to the programme for good governance, a very serious financial resource. Just to really do it in an adequate way, so that the cultural heritage and in particular the electronic services that we will offer to Bulgarian citizens are in sync with our wonderful heritage, with the latest technologies, really very well to visualize, be clear and accessible to all so that they can see which objects enter this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u286	Thank you. A hole? You won't use it, Mr. Secretary. The last question to Minister Rashidov is the MP Vassil Antonov on the announcement of a competition for director of drama theatre Ivan Radoev "in Pleven." We're listening, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is essentially by choosing the director of the Drama Puppet Theatre in Pleven and in time, of course, where today's response is obtained, the procedure is completed. As far as I'm concerned, there's a choice of director of drama theater. I am not aware of whether there is anything in the complaint procedure and so on, but I am convinced that the choice that has been made is a step in the right direction because the Drama Theatre in Pleven has been in a hanging position for more than two years. The previous director's contract had expired, and for one reason or another the procedures were going on, but they didn't go to the end. So in any case, in terms of choice, I cannot be specifically competent because it is the prerogative of your Ministry and the honourable Commission. I would like to remind you that the Drama Puppet Theatre is currently in poor condition because of one of the reasons I am commenting on, the prolonging of the competition. But probably not just for that reason. In the chair of the director of the drama theatre in Pleven was last one of the legends of Pleven "Ilko Ilarionov," and before that, as an external figure, which left an outstanding mark in Pleven, was the great Cherkelov. He left memorable plays, kept and raised the level of the theatre. We are very confident that with this choice, which is now made, we will again have these or close to them successes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But on one occasion or another, the need for repairs in the theater has been linked... The building itself is a monument to culture. The main renovation in the theater has not been carried out more than 35 years since the distant 1985 or a little earlier. We rely very much on your competent will and intervention in this direction so that we can, and I have no doubt that all of us, the MPs, the opposition and the government, who are from Pleven and the Fifteenth Pleven Election Region, in this respect I have no doubt and the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Tsacheva, will do what is necessary and will have our support for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u288	There was no question, but please come in for an answer, Mr. Rashidov. The question is asked about a procedure. I heard from the MP that it's over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u289	Madam Chairman, Mr. Antonov! Out of respect for the city of Pleven and the theater, you will allow me a few words. We get into heavy drama when we talk that a theater will not be, but a theater is not done by the director, but by artists and by an audience. That's the point of the theater. Sometimes the search for a good manager slows down. When a person is a great artist, it doesn't mean that he is also a good supervisor. Let's not lie to each other. Soon at the National Theatre we appointed Mr. Morfov as director, after a year he gave up. It's not that easy to drive a machine. So let's not be dramatic. I have no problem with both cultural centers and theaters, as some do, to hire my cousins to have a secure salary. The aim is for the theatres to work, in Pleven the audience to be happy with a good theatre and the actors to be happy with viewers, because against every revenue from a spectator they receive from our country between BGN 2,5 and BGN 8. Depending on the formats of the opera, philharmonic, symphonic and dramatic and puppet. So, there is no fear of the theatre already having a director, God willing, to wish him good luck and to be happy artists and audiences in Pleven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u290	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u291	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Rashidov, I have no doubt what you said. We all expect exactly what you said. Once again, I say you will have our support. The town of Pleven and the Drama Puppet Theatre is one of the centers of culture not only for the city, but also for Northern Bulgaria and, of course, one of the posts of the Ministry of Culture. So we're counting on you to come to the first stage of the new director's production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u293	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. We have weary you today with many questions. Colleagues, there are two questions left that will be developed and will be answered by Mr Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The first question is Mr. Manol Genov's on the suspension of the work of the NSI Territorial Directorate of Plovdiv located in the municipality of Asenovgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u294	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! On the territory of the municipality of Asenovgrad for years there has been an export job of the Terial Directorate of NSI, which serves the inhabitants of the municipalities of Asenovgrad, Sadovo and Lucky. During the last two years, two employees working in the said office of the Territorial Directorate for the registration of unemployed persons, the other working for the reception of hospital sheets by employers. On the territory of the three municipalities the economically active population in the last census of Statistics is over 30 thousand people, the registered unemployed on 31 January 2016 are 4,000 people. At the same time, in the territory of these municipalities legal persons who use the services in this workplace, only in the municipality of Asenovgrad are over 6500, in Sadovo are 1407, in Lucky are the modest 77 who constantly use the services of this office. What are the reasons for the closure of this exported workplace of the Territorial Directorate, and what is the possibility of preserving it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u295	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Kalfin, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The exported working place of the NSI in Asenovgrad is to the territorial unit of Plovdiv. It was opened in 2004, with its tasks being the granting and payment of unemployment benefits. Since 2007, it has also carried out activities related to the payment of monetary benefits for temporary disability and, in particular, the adoption of documents. From 1 January 2015, an obligation of the authorities of the medical expertise to submit by electronic means the data of the hospital sheets issued by them to the NSIs shall be introduced. As of 1 January 2016, insurers and self-insuring persons shall submit to the NSI documents for payment of monetary benefits by electronic means. By creating this opportunity, the second stage of the electronization of the process of payment of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity, for maternity and for adoption of a child from 2 to 5 years of age ended. Insurance and self-insuring persons can now perform their duties without visiting NSI offices. Current data to date show that more than 73% of the total admission documents in this activity are already carried out electronically using a qualified electronic signature and the paper intake is only 5,88% of the total volume of documents. As from 1 January 2016, the whole procedure for hospital sheets is now done electronically, the possibility for someone to carry on-site hospital sheets and someone else to accept them has been dropped. The second service is related to the declaration of unemployed persons. In general, you know that within one week of the beginning of the unemployment period, the person is obliged to state himself at the Labour Office, and within three months of the corresponding unit of the NSI, so, first, they are quite few. Secondly, there is a possibility that within these three months people will, anyway, leave their municipality and travel, make a similar registration. I just want to make it clear that not all who submit electronic documents must have an electronic signature. Since 2005, the NSI has provided individuals with a personal identification code and since 2007. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and parts of buildings. So companies no longer need to go to the NSI, citizens who go to unemployment once within three months of this period have to visit such a desk. Abbreviations in a number of exported NSI offices enable the composition and budget to be optimized after the introduction of the electronic system. What I can tell you about Asenovgrad, especially because it covers three municipalities, because from Asenovgrad to Plovdiv there are 18 kilometers, with a good transport connection, we have the assurance from the management of the NSI that they will keep a working place that will work according to the schedule of a certain period of time will be attended by employees so that every person of these municipalities can visit it. I will rely on your cooperation and on the assistance of the municipality to provide appropriate conditions for this service. So the citizens will not be troubled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u297	A line? You won't use it. The second question to Mr. Kalfin is from the MP Georgi Gokov about the amount of the supplement from the pension of a deceased husband. We're listening, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u298	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy! My question is about a tragic event in people's lives. Losing a husband or wife is a serious emotional event. This, on the one hand. On the other hand, it leads to quite serious financial turmoil in the family. It is logical and correct for the state to offer some compensation for the lost income in the family and for the compensation to be directed to the husband who remained alive to the children, and why not to the parents? Under Bulgarian law, pensioners are entitled to a supplement from the pension or the sum of pensions received by the deceased husband. This right shall be governed by art. 84 of the Social Security Code. Until 31 August 2011, it was 20% of the deceased's pension, and from 1 September 2011 it was 26.5%. On some good intentions, which were written in the Labour Code, it had to grow planically in the years and in 2015 to become 40%. For some reason, in 2012, they were cancelled, again with a change in the Labour Code, by the same people who then stated the good intentions. I say "unknownly" because the public did not have the real motives for this annulment. We are now 2016 and for five years this supplement has not moved, and its increase is expected 700,000 pensioners. Without claiming that I'm punctual, 500 thousand of them have pensions of up to 250 BGN. And that's their only hope for an increase in income. Since you and the government have no idea, nor the intention to update pensions and give them the opportunity to get out of poverty, and this pension I consider to be supporting and solidarity with these people, I will not develop the question, but I will ask directly what your views are and what will be the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the topic of updating the amount of the pension allowance of a deceased husband? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u299	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u300	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! Not only the government, but also the legislator intends to update every year all pensions, which will take place from 1 July this year. With regard to the so-called "indovish" pensioners, they are currently receiving 735 392 pensioners and the average amount of the supplement is BGN 63,13, just over BGN 63. You missed another opportunity, which is also included in the Social Security Code. When one of the family members dies, the remaining living gets the corresponding 26.5% of the deceased's pension or has the opportunity to receive 50% of the deceased's pension if it is more profitable and it is higher, which, of course, replaces his own pension. So this option exists and the people whose deceased husband or wife has taken a higher pension choose this option. This is also an option to increase the total amount. The annual cost of these pensions is 46 million. 400,000. BGN, which means that each percentage of additional increase is about 2 million. BGN additional funds to be provided for this increase. At the same time, it is not true that supplements of 26.5% are not increasing. Every year, the indexing of pensions practically indexes the entire pension of the deceased husband and thus that part of it 26.5%, which is derived from the survivor. Each year this amount shall be slightly increased by the corresponding index rate. If additional funds are allocated, they must be significantly above that 1% I mentioned in order to make a difference. At the moment, there is also an increase, and depending on the overall increase in pensions, respectively, increase in the rise of the increased pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u301	Line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I suppose you don't expect me to say I'm pleased with your response. It doesn't even matter if I am satisfied with the answer, but it is important that Bulgarian pensioners are satisfied, in this case those who have a dead husband or wife. They can't be happy, I even suspect they're angry with the answer, because you're practically saying, "This is the situation." We're not helping you. We won't be solidarity with you. Deal with it as you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u303	Such a thing is not said, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u304	If I keep going this way, it's gonna get very populist, so I'm not gonna do it. It's sad, these are our mothers and fathers that we've let go into misery and poverty. I told you that over 250 thousand of those receiving widowly allowances are on top of it with a pension under 250 BGN. I think we should get to at least 40, not even say 50% of the deceased husband's pension, because solidarity, solidarity, but that money is paid, and there's no other way to go. It'll probably be very naturalistic, but I'll give you an example. From a retirement family, the husband has a high pension because he has spent his life bumping into and working to provide a standard in the family, and the wife has a low pension because she has cared for the children, cared for the husband and the household. This pensioner family still maintained a normal standard because of the husband's pension, but he died and the wife remained with a miserable widow's supplement of 26% of his pension. I don't think this is fair and normal at all. For her life ends, even more now in the household she is forced to pay the inherent expenses for the household alone, without any other help. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the people will not be pleased with your answer, because they are more waiting for us, as legislators, and you, as executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u305	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Gokov, let me still remind you that by 2011 the supplement was 20%. In 2011, it was increased to 26.5%. I haven't heard you have any proposals as a MP for anything extra. Maybe now you've thought of that question?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u307	As governors, they also had no suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u308	It's a good thing they reminded you. The example you give is related to members of a family with a low and high pension, if so, then the surviving husband whose husband died will give up his own and take half of the high pension. I mentioned that there are many such cases. That way, he'll increase his income. Let us not forget that pensions are insurance, not social payments. These are contributions for which everyone has separated from their income, depending on how long they have been imported, on what income, on what salary. Other measures are envisaged for people with low incomes, including Easter supplements are given precisely for people whose sum of pensions is up to 300 BGN. If this increases, perhaps some such people will drop out of the Easter supplements. We are now expanding the support group and discuss how to do it with food. Different options are discussed to assist in the use of electricity and so on. Low income people have the opportunity to be supported by the social system, not additionally by the social system. Is the social system enough for everything we want to happen? Probably not. However, if we are talking about the responsibility of the MPs and to whom people are angry, then we must be realistic, because there are also colleagues of yours who offer the pension to be 1000 BGN, the minimum wage of 2000 BGN. or something like that. I don't think they inspire much confidence in their constituents that this is realistic. You've worked in the social system, you know things, let's talk about things that are possible! Let us look for opportunities to help people with the lowest incomes, but this is more through the social system than through the insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-08.u309	Mr. Kalfin, thank you for your participation in this parliamentary control. Due to the expiry of the time set for him, I announce the next plenary session next Wednesday, which is on April 13th, starting at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
