ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the following Project for the work of the National Assembly for the time from 13 to 15 July 2016: 1. Project for a decision on the summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2016. Importers: Krasimir Velchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. He was accepted in the first vote on 17 June 2016. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. A continuation of last week's plenary session. 4. First vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importer: Tsveta Karayancheva. 6. Second vote on the Bill on Real Estate Credits to Consumers. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. This is intended to be point one for Friday 15 July 2016. 8. A summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2013, a summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2014 and a summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2015. 9. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2014 and Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2015. The Supreme Judicial Council is the importer. 10. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2014 and Report on the application of the law and on the activities of the administrative courts in 2015. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. 11. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014 and Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2015. 12. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, Friday, starting at 11.00 Please vote. They voted 165 MPs: 123 against 14, 28 abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with this, our weekly program. Two proposals have been made in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules. The first is Mr. Velizar Enchev, who proposes to include in the weekly program a draft declaration of the forty-third National Assembly for refusal of hostile actions between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation. At this time, the relevant committees have not ruled on the declaration. The deadline, however, has expired. The offer is admissible. Mr. Enchev has already taken his place in the stands. We're listening, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, as it is obvious that the tensions between NATO and the Russian Federation are growing sharply in the Black Sea basin, taking into account the bitter historical lessons for our country and in order to avoid fatal political mistakes of this Parliament such as the one in 1941 when this National Assembly declared war on the United States of America and Britain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u3	This National Assembly didn't exist at the time, but in this building...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u4	I propose a Declaration of the Forty-third National Assembly on the refusal of hostile actions between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation. The declaration is short and reads: The territory, airspace and territorial waters of the Republic of Bulgaria will not be used as a platform for hostile actions or armed actions against the territory of the Russian Federation, as well as against Russian planes, ships and other sites located outside the Bulgarian land, air and sea borders. This commitment on our part will be in force until the Russian Federation has taken or announced that it is taking such action against the Republic of Bulgaria. This is the declaration. It takes into account the following disturbing facts in recent weeks and months, the increased presence of NATO in the Black Sea, the deployment of anti-missile defence elements on the territory of Romania, anti-missile defence that can be used to launch both ballistic missiles and winged missiles, the intention of the military minister not approved by parliament, to accept up to 5 thousand troops from the US Armoured Brigade and to send 400 troops to a stationary military base in Romania. I believe that we can and should vote on this Declaration, all the more so as to reassure the great supporters of our NATO membership, there is such a precedent in 2003, when the Magliss, the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, refused to grant permission for NATO aviation to use the military base "Ingirlik" against the aggression of the independent and sovereign state of Iraq. Thank you. I hope your positive attitude towards this Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u5	Colleagues, we are voting to include the item in the weekly programme. They voted 146 MPs: 33, against 72, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure is by Mr. Vasil Antonov, MP from BSP left Bulgaria, who proposes to include in the weekly program the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act, No 654-01-32, submitted on 14 March 2016 by Mr. Antonov and a group of MPs. [[National Representative Vasil Antonov stands behind the stands.]] You stand on the stand, speak up, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In the performance of art. 50, para. 3 The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria proposes that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act be included in the program for the working week of the National Assembly. This Religions Act was adopted in 2002 and has been in force since 2003. It deals with the issue of personal and group rights of religion.. both registration and many other issues. From this tribune, I must say that there are big gray spots in the Religious Law. Evidence of this is the registration at the time of 150 religions which subsequently after their registration are largely unaccounted for and cannot account for their activity. Please, for these reasons, with the general will of today to vote for inclusion on the agenda of the Supplement to the Religion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u7	We vote, fellow Members, this proposal. They voted 158 MPs: 37 against 58, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Last week on various occasions we commented on the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the contemporary democratic Bulgarian Constitution. The Law of Religion is one of the basic laws that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u9	Revoting is required if someone has failed to vote, not two minutes extra time to present the substance, Mr. Antonov, because you have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u10	It is in this regard that I ask that we re-vote and call on you with the common will to support the proposed Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u11	It's a re-vote. Vote 155 MPs: 40, against 68, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Anastasov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I suggest that we vote to drop point 5th of the programme first vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property of Agricultural Land. Colleagues, we have several arguments, and please listen carefully to them. First, this bill concerns whole groups of Bulgarian society, no doubt hundreds of thousands. In addition, it also concerns entire sectors and sectoral policies, such as the Law, note, has been tabled by a Member of the National Assembly. He has not gone through public consultation, he has not gone through inter-agency coordination and neither the assessments of the Bulgarian society nor the relevant ministers have been reflected in any way what effect this Law will have. Its content is, to put it mildly, controversial. Makes a bad impression and the quick way in which this Bill is being moved is tabled on 4 July and only on 13th, in just nine days it is already in plenary. Colleagues, we are at the end of the parliamentary season anyway, to save ourselves another scandal, not to stir up the Bulgarian society with at least this bill. I'm asking you to vote to drop him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u13	In return proposal Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that item five remain on the agenda. There's nothing scandalous about it, it's all in agreement with the National Association of Municipalities. This is done so that all things seen as gaps in the past campaign, which ended on June 26th, are all reflected in this bill. So it's all agreed with them, I don't think there's going to be any controversial points. Moreover, I understand that Minister Taneva will come to the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at 11:00 today to explain. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I suggest the item remain on the agenda as fifth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u15	Colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Anastasov's proposal to drop the item from the agenda. They voted 146 MPs: 56 against 65, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote some of my colleagues failed to vote because they obviously did not understand that it is really a lobbying law that needs to be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u17	It's a re-vote. They voted 147 MPs: 55 against 74, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 6 July to 12 July this year: Project for a decision to postpone elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It's a counterterrorism bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Defence is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Krasimir Karakachanov and group of MPs. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. A bill to supplement the Insurance Code. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The Commission is leading economic policy and tourism. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova, Lachezar Nikiforov, Yanko Yanko Yankov, Stanislav Anastasov I read all my colleagues to see that the proposal is with representatives from all parliamentary groups. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Project for a decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of the Sofia Airport EAD. Importer: Rumen Gechev and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications has been allocated. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for the Implementation of the Export Control Act on Defence and Dual-Use Products for 2015. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer: Rumen Hristov and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Decision for adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has also been allocated to the Health Committee. Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media will prepare a report on this. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importers - Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova, Petar Petrov, Emil Dimitrov, Rumen Hristov and Korman Ismailov. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A draft declaration by the National Assembly for the NATO summit in Warsaw. Importer: Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to the Committee on Defence; Project for a decision on the summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2016. Importers: Krasimir Velchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov. In connection with the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to provoke prosecution against the people's representative Alexander Hristov Metodiev, the same with an application from 11 July this year informed me that he consented to arousal of criminal prosecution against him at the request. By my letter, I have informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Alexander Metodiev to arouse prosecution against him at the request, and a certified copy of the application of the National Representative has been attached. Last communication: materials containing results from statistical studies have been received from the National Statistical Institute on: - R & D indexes in the Section of Retail Trade, excluding car and motorcycle trading in May 2016; - Industrial production indexes in May 2016; - Indexes of construction production in May 2016 and - information on consumer price indices for June 2016. The materials are traditionally available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. After that " Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it has been twenty-five years since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The new Constitution, which is the product of the unbuilt, young democracy after the changes on 10 November 1989, is far from the perfection and dreams of the wrestlers for democracy, but today we can recognise that it has secured the path of transition and created the foundations of democratic construction. Adopting the principle of political pluralism in public life, the Constitution also envisaged the creation of a number of new state bodies as directly elected by the people president, Constitutional Court, Supreme Judicial Council, arranged local self-government, the principles of market economy, established the forms of ownership. In line with the development phase of Bulgaria, the 1991 Constitution has created prerequisites for the consolidation and development of civil society and the rule of law, placed man high in the hierarchy of values, created the necessary legal prerequisites for protection of legitimate interests, rights and freedoms. At the heart of the structure of civil society stands the democratic status of the citizen, stands the person with its guaranteed rights and legitimate interests. It is a civil society in which the main function of the state is to serve the citizens. Civil society is only possible if it is guaranteed in the rule of law. Also in the preamble to the Constitution is declared the aspiration to create and promote the rule of law and social state in which the rights of the individual, its freedom, dignity and security are raised in a supreme principle. This aspiration can only take place in a country governed by the Constitution and the laws. Accurate respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens is guaranteed by the creation of the relevant legal mechanisms and this is a fundamental obligation and responsibility of the Members of the National Assembly. Our Constitution provides broad rights and freedoms to the individual, but they are only a prerequisite. They can't and they're not a real measure of the democratism of society. They become meaningless if the necessary economic and political prerequisites for their implementation are not created. Otherwise, they just leave a statement. Our new Constitution has created, in principle, a new state of substance and form, but it turns out that we, the citizens of this country, have remained chained up in the old chains of our own prejudices. The adoption of the Constitution in Bulgaria established parliamentary governance based on the principle of popular sovereignty. Parliamentary governance ensures that Members of the National Assembly freely express their views, but also requires by unwritten rules that these Members of the National Assembly be patient and have the necessary correctness to others, to the various. In the past year, we have also seen how not only the spirit and philosophy of the basic law and its specific norms are violated, we are witnessing a lasting tendency to distance and retreat from the achievements of democracy in our country. Instead of the laws to further develop the established democratic principles and create stable guarantees for their manifestation, the legislative body makes them devoid of content declarations. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, democracy is not a given, rights and freedoms are not a given. We all have to fight and stand firm. There are many problems ahead of us, there are many issues and difficult ones, but in the name of democracy we must fight, sometimes we must make compromises to deal with the problems, to overcome the differences, so that we can continue to live together in order to find inspiration for building a better common future. And if we are extreme in our demands, in our decisions, in our voices, let it be related to this inspiration, all the more so given that we have a very important election ahead of us. I repeat: a very important election! The attempt to neglect the elections and the institution President are a bad way to replace the constitutional idea of President of the Republic of Bulgaria as Head of State. These attempts cannot change the facts and minimize the elections. We all need to have the clear awareness of the importance of this institution and hence the act of choice. The President shall be elected directly by the voters and its powers referred to in the Constitution, and shall be of the utmost importance as commander-in-chief of the army, with regard to the foreign policy of the State, with regard to all three authorities of the country, including alone or together with other bodies and institutions, to participate in the formation of state bodies in the country. The President represents the unity of the nation, he has an extremely important role to play in the normal functioning of the political system and especially in parliamentary crises. It is high time to realize our presence on the political stage as part of our mission as leaders of the state and stop political experiments. Political time requires that we clearly outline the image of the future president, identify his main characteristics, identify the goals and the way in which to go, and this should happen very soon in the name of the Bulgarian interests, in the name of our common future. The easiest thing to say is that the future president should be what the current president isn't and couldn't be. I will not do it this way, even because this President was a defender of the Euro-Atlantic orientation of Bulgaria, although not always in the best way. However, this exhausts my positive assessment of him because he was not a united nation, but rather a divider; he did not defend the Constitution and the laws of the country, rights and freedoms with the same archin; he did not defend the dignity of the Bulgarian citizens; he left vivid examples of subordination to party biases and group interests. In order not to give reason to seek direct dependence on the depersonalization of the institution and to lower the criteria to the applicants, I will present our vision and be brief. The President must realise his mission, be convinced a democrat, Euro-Atlantic, have the will to defend and develop democratic achievements, work to promote the rule of law and social state, to be sensitive to human rights and freedoms, to be a united nation, to work for the international authority of our country and to firmly and irrevocably defend its interests as a member of the European Union and NATO. As nationally responsible parties, we must be united in our will with regard to the requirements for candidates, we must present them in time enough for the public to hear their platforms and make informed choices. We must ensure and ensure fair and transparent elections in order to establish the necessary trust in the elected President. Once these conditions are met, we can expect a successful implementation of the country's presidential mission and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I call on all nationally responsible parties to be responsible, to elect President of all Bulgarian citizens! I call on all Members of the National Assembly in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and to adopt the laws in the interests of citizens, guided by the letter and spirit of the Constitution! Thank you for your attention! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On today 25 years ago the new Bulgarian Constitution enters into force. After a quarter of a century the fourth Bulgarian Constitution is now the second in duration of action after Tarnovo. This is due to the fact that it is an alloy of modern constitutional experience and the traditions of our first Constitution. Dramatic processes and events accompany the activities of the Grand National Assembly. This is the parliament elected by the largest majority following the political changes in 1989 and accompanied by the highest expectations. At a time of sharp political opposition, the Constitution contributed to the preservation of civil peace and the creation of new state institutions. Today we have to thank these 313 MPs from BSP, SDS, BZNS and others who signed the basic law, to note that there are politicians and statesmen who, over the years, consistently defend the provisions and especially the spirit of the Constitution. The Bulgarian Socialist Party is a republican party, which is for parliamentary governance. We have suffered historical experience which obliges us to oppose the sole authority, to lower parliament and to subjugate the state to private and corporate interests. We are therefore political defenders of constitutionalism and democracy. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is the project of a democratic, rule of law and social state, which we are obliged to follow and validate. Unfortunately, reality is largely absent by these constitutional orders. We bear part of the responsibility that in legislation and current policy we have allowed deviations from the beginning of the modern social state. In the 1990s, the majority of the Bulgarian right-wing criticised and even denied the Constitution. The leading right-wing party today is not opposed to the Constitution. It is even legitimized through it and works on the principle of the Constitution does not hinder us, we manage both convenient and profitable. Proof of the merits of the Constitution is that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which then did not sign the Constitution, marks its positive qualities today. Today, the Constitution faces several national and European trials. Fundamental rights have been reduced to public or private services in a number of cases of low quality and significant additional payment. The most eloquent example is the right to health insurance. Democracy is maintained as a form, but as a state of society is in decline in Europe and especially in our country. In short, global capitalism has defeated democracy. Equality before the law is at the heart of democracy, and social polarisation is its denial. Even fundamental rights such as the right to choose, for which for decades there have been struggles for their recognition and expansion, are now presented as obligations. While the founders of the Constitution did not allow for a deviation from the classic sign of the statute of limitations for prosecution, current reformers and democrats suggest that the term of office should not apply to acts committed during the previous political system. In the modern world of trials, both security and freedom are placed. We must not sacrifice freedom for security, nor imagine that we can be free without being sure. This complex balance should be our orientation when we discuss legislative initiatives to combat terrorism. The Constitution has defined legal forms for the use of the most important natural and economic goods. The legislative framework and especially the concession and privatisation practices do not comply with the constitutional standards laid down. How can the nation achieve prosperity when many view the European funds and the embezzlement by the state as main revenue sources? The tearing of ties between the political elite and the citizens, depoliticizing parties, constant stocks, in which Parliament is primarily a critical target, drive us away from the values and principles of the Constitution. In these conditions the announced parliamentary government in Bulgaria functions as authoritarian power. There are parties and politicians who are willing to legitimize this state, but with another addressee, by launching ideas for a semi-presidential government. No smaller are the European tests to which the Constitution is being subjected. In this regard, as a regulatory text, it proved to be at a level. It was used by other Eastern European countries, which later adopted new constitutions. With minor changes the Bulgarian Constitution entered the European legal space. Article 1 of it proclaims that all state power derives from the people. It shall be carried out by it immediately and through the bodies provided for in the Constitution. And according to the Law, decisions adopted in a national referendum are mandatory. These clear and clear plays do not allow us to advocate a thesis that these days a thousand British lawyers develop on the occasion of Brexit's results. They say: In our democracy, parliament is sovereign. We cannot be governed by referendums or plebiscites. Our Constitution recognises the priority of the international treaties that Bulgaria ratified before the rules of national law when they contradict them. This requires Bulgaria's participation in such treaties as are military agreements, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement and others to be thoroughly discussed and carefully decided, not to become an uneven exchange coin, as is now the case with the accession to the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, in order to reduce visas for Bulgarian citizens. The sharp question is who and how formed the Bulgarian foreign and security policy. Some statements, often provocative, we hear from our official representatives of the international forums of President and Ministers. And others are comfortingly peaceful, said by the Prime Minister, but intended only for internal consumption by the general public. Democracy does not exclude different positions from the various state institutions, but it must be clear which of their representatives really stands for what and consistently to adhere to the statements made. If today many things are wrong in Bulgaria, it is not because of the Constitution, but despite it. Instead of pointing out the policy and the persons for which the majority of people are disappointed, it is easier and more convenient to declare that the reason for this is the Constitution. Thus, the shortcomings of governance and abuse of power discredit the Constitution itself. Today we can confidently say that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria contains principles and rules that make it up to date now. It allows for a new, post-transition policy to be formed through a state that is an active regulator, owner and investor, by promoting cooperatives, business and civil associations. The Constitution has potential for development and can contribute to the development of Bulgaria... of the Republic of Bulgaria as a sovereign, fair and enlightened state. Happy Constitutional Jubilee! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. We move on to the first item on our agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE SUMMER VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR 2016 Dear Members of the National Assembly, I recall that according to art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is on vacation from 1 August to 31 August annually. In view of how the dates correspond to the days laid down by our Rules of Parliament, a group of Members of Parliament Mr. Krasimir Velchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov have submitted a draft decision on the summer vacation, which changes the fixed period from 1 to 31 August. This can be done by decision of the National Assembly. From the importers here is Mr. Zelenogorski, I do not see Krassimir Velchev. Are you gonna offer us the Solution Project or should I read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal is in connection with art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 43, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Our proposal is the decision to be: 1. The summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 is from 1 to 28 August, including. 2. The first regular plenary session of the National Assembly after the vacation under point 1. 1 is on 31 August 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We are essentially cutting short a few days' vacation to have an additional plenary day on August 31, 2016. Something that has been commented on at the Conference of Presidents and supported by all parliamentary groups. Project! DECISION in relation to the summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 43, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The summer vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 is from 1 to 28 August, including. 2. The first regular plenary session of the National Assembly after the vacation under point 1. 1 is on 31 August 2016, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote. They voted 121 MPs: 108, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Next item: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 17 June 2016. A report was submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs with a second reading project. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-68, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 26 May 2016, adopted on the first vote on 17 June 2016. "Ideas for amendment and supplement of the Election Code (prom., The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u25	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer on the name of the Law. They voted 109 MPs: for 101, against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u26	Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to create a new § 1 with regard to art. 3. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Law, since it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. A proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak for a new § 1 shall be created in respect of art. 3. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Law, since it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. A proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to create a new § 2 in relation to art. 7. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Law, since it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. A proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to create a new § 3 in relation to art. 11: A new § 3 is being created. .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following 1. The title is amended as follows: "Determining the terms and conditions for the formation of sections'. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: A new § 1 is being created. ................................................................................... In Article The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u27	Statements on the proposal for changes in art. 11 of the Election Code "In fact" for the annulment of para. Two? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We just heard two declarations on behalf of the parliamentary group on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Bulgarian Constitution. Only because of this fact I suggest that we comply with the spirit and with the letter of the Bulgarian Constitution and not allow immediately after this significant date, the very next day, to accept amendments to the Election Code, which are in dire contradiction with the Bulgarian Constitution! Such a violation of the Constitution is also the text recently adopted by this Parliament, with which a fundamental constitutional right, namely the right to vote, has been converted into an obligation. This act of the Bulgarian Parliament is truly regrettable because you did so with the clear awareness that you violated the Constitution. Now you have a chance for a correctional officer, dear colleagues! We now have the opportunity to correct this error before the Constitutional Court has spoken and stated in its definition that the Constitution cannot be trampled in such a drastic way. That's why we've offered to drop the last sentence of art. 3, para. 1 which you introduced with the latest amendments in order to restore what the Constitution proclaimed 25 years ago, namely that selective law is right; it cannot be converted into an obligation, even less into an ordinary law! No argument that if you see this being outside the scope, beyond the principles, they cannot prevail over the argument that when there is a clear, obvious violation of the Constitution, this argument must prevail over any other matter relating to the breach of this or that letter of the Rules. The constitution is above all else and I urge you to comply with it! You have one last chance before this is done by the Constitutional Court and it will force you to comply with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u29	Thank you. The Constitution acts, determines the rule of law along with other laws, including the Law on Legislative Acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u30	Is that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u31	No, this is not a replica because the debate is about the proposals of the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Radan Kanev and a group of MPs for changes in art. 11. That's what the debate is about right now. Are there any speeches on these proposals that are not supported by the Commission? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal on this. 1.................................................................................. 11 the title to be amended as follows: "Determining the terms and conditions for the formation of sections'. We are voting on this proposal, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u32	What about our proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u33	They are outside the subject of first-vote votes, and the report merely mentions. There's a vote going on right now. [[Replications by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] We vote on Georgi Kadiev's proposal to change the name of art. 11. It proposes to be a definition of the terms and conditions for the formation of sections. The Commission does not support it. We vote on his proposal. They voted 121 MPs: 14 against 74, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal, which is identical with Mr. Radan Kanev's proposal and a group of MPs in art. Paragraph 11 is replaced by the following: 2 to be canceled. The Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 122 MPs: 25, against 66, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak, we're in the middle of a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u34	Thank you, Madam President. It's the way it's supposed to be. You know very well that the Standing Committees are the support bodies of the National Assembly. The main legislative body of the National Assembly is the plenary. She voted on the laws at first and second reading. Without a decision of the plenary, any decision of an appropriate permanent committee shall be merely a recommendation to the plenary, i.e. to the Members of the National Assembly in their aggregate. Without a decision of the plenary whether a proposal made between first and second reading is or is not out of the scope or violates the principles of the bill adopted at first vote, it cannot be determined by any committee whether it is so or not. From this point of view, I call on you to really comply with the Rules of Procedure, with the powers of the National Assembly in its plenary and to put each of these proposals to a vote, whether or not it is outside the scope. The National Assembly in its plenary must make this assessment, not any committee that can only judge and recommend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u35	Dear Mr. Kazak, there were several bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. In the first vote, the plenary supported one of them. The procedure for a second vote under the Law on Legislative Acts and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall continue only in respect of the bill supported by the first vote. The right of the committee responsible for assessing the proposals received between the first and second votes is to take this into account. The Commission has done so, clearly from the report............................................................................................................................................................... In this situation, since there are no concrete proposals in the report of the Legal Committee, which is binding on the management of the sitting and on the plenary at second reading, I do not see how I could put to the vote texts without proposals from the Standing Committee. The role and work of the Standing Committee, which must closely monitor the correlation between the bill supported at first reading and the proposals for a second vote, is being depreciated. However, since, in discussing the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution, we have accepted that this issue is a point of reference at that time on a similar proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformist Block, in view of the way procedural proposals are being developed, I am now asking a question: is there a reverse opinion? I am going to put it to the vote on the House to decide the Commission's texts and its conclusion whether a proposal is within or outside the scope of the Bill, whether it will essentially be debated in plenary. A counteroffer of Mr. Kazak's proposal? You, Mr. Hamid, would like to make a counteroffer of what Mr. Kazak did? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u36	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposal is not exactly the opposite, but it is not what Mr Kazak is proposing or, in fact, what you have summarized in your speech. My proposal is that each proposal should be assessed separately by the House whether it is within the scope, because there are those that go beyond the scope, but all these proposals are in the principles of the bill adopted at first reading. And in this sense, all proposals need to be considered. Therefore, I propose that any proposed text by text should be voted on individually by the Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u37	In essence, this proposal is identical to the proposal made by Mr. Kazak. I gave the floor for an offer back. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal, supported essentially by Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u38	An additional paragraph of paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u39	There is no way for him to be any other way than text by text. We either accept the Commission's opinion or Mr. Kazak's proposal. I don't see the third option. They voted 119 MPs: for 30, against 71, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov, to Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal for a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u40	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new §4 is being created: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 after the word "supplier" is added on the basis of the aggregated data under art. 14. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: A new § 2 is being created. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 after the word "supplier" is added on the basis of the aggregated data under art. 14. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u41	The proposals are identical in substance. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev and the proposal of Mr. Radan Kanev and a group of MPs - identical proposals not supported by the Commission. We vote. They voted 130 MPs: for 30, against 71, abstention 29. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u42	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: "Paragraph 1" shall be renumbered as § 5'. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The heads of diplomatic and consular representations shall determine the location of the polling stations outside the country on the basis of the territorial distribution of the Bulgarian community in the respective place. (3) Organizations of the Bulgarian citizens in the respective place may propose the location of the polling stations outside the country to the heads of diplomatic and consular representations. The proposal shall be made no later than 25 days before the election day and shall be published immediately on the website of the relevant diplomatic and consular representations. (4) The heads of diplomatic and consular offices may determine the location of the polling stations outside the country on the basis of the proposals under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u43	Paragraph 1 statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: 104 against 3, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u44	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: "Paragraph 2 shall be renumbered as § 6 and shall be amended as follows: ........................................................... Article 14 is amended as ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. Election sections outside the country shall be formed: 1. where there is a diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; 2. out of t. 1 in the case of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 3. in places where, up to 5 years before election day, elections were formed at least one election section where they voted not less than 100 voters; the list of seats and the estimated number of sections in each place shall be announced by the Central Election Commission no later than 50 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 4. outside the places under point 4. 1. 3 at the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations on the basis of the total number of applications submitted or to the total number of voters in previous elections, including where the number of applications submitted for a specific place is less than 40; the heads of the diplomatic or consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria shall send a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission no later than 22 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in the Member States of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva: In § 2 of para. 3 of art. 14 The expression...................................................................................... Five o'clock to fall. The creation of para. 4.............................................................................................................. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The total number of sections revealed is private to the total number of voting applications submitted in the country concerned. In § 2, para. 4 of Article 14 shall be renumbered as para. 5. In § 2, para. 5 of art. 14 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov: In § 2 of Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 is amended as ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. (1) Election sections outside the country shall be formed by a decision of the Central Election Commission on a proposal from the heads of diplomatic and consular offices on the basis of no less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (2) Election sections outside the country may also be formed by a decision of the Central Election Commission on a reasoned proposal of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations and without the presence of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (3) The heads of diplomatic and consular representations, on the basis of the territorial distribution of the Bulgarian community, the distance from the polling stations, shall send the proposal under the previous paragraphs on the number and location of the polling stations to the Central Election Commission no later than 25 days before the election day. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 becomes § 4 and is amended as follows: ............................................ Article 14 is amended as follows: ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. Election sections outside the country shall be formed: 1. where there is a diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; 2. out of t. 1 in the case of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 3. in places where, up to 5 years before election day, elections were formed at least one election section where they voted not less than 100 voters; the list of seats and the estimated number of sections in each place shall be announced by the Central Election Commission no later than 55 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria such sections shall be formed only in the Member States of the European Union; 4. outside the places under point 4. 1. 3 at the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations on the basis of the total number of applications submitted or to the total number of voters in previous elections, including where the number of applications submitted for a specific place is less than 40; the heads of the diplomatic or consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria shall send a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission no later than 22 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in the Member States of the European Union. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak: In § 2, art. 14, para. 2 and para. 3 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssss,ssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssss. In § 2, Art. 14 para. 4 and para. 5 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u45	You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Mr. Nikiforov, Mr. Mestan and Mr. Kazak. Here you go, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief. Our proposal is regarding the criterion for revealing polling stations outside the country. We propose to introduce a common criterion valid for all countries and all Bulgarian citizens around the world, without limiting the number and location of the polling stations, including providing for the possibility of forming sections without meeting the criteria for this, without submitting at least 40 applications, on a reasoned proposal from the head of diplomatic or consular representation, but subject to the relevant procedures and deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. - What's the line? I won't. People's representative Lutvi Mestan has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code has been presented to us as an attempt to correct texts in the recently adopted amendments, which have awakened serious protest energy of Bulgarian citizens abroad. The bill has been declared as an attempt to correct all of this. The aim was to avoid the referral of the Constitutional Court by the Head of State. Only this bill achieves exactly the opposite goals! He overcomes some of the obstacles facing Bulgarian citizens abroad who live in all other countries outside the Republic of Turkey because of para. 5 of the importer, which limits the number of polling stations formed in one country to a maximum of 35, does not actually affect citizens from any other country. According to a reference that I was able to present to you for first reading, there is not a single country in which more than 35, there are one exception - 36 sections, during the operation of the liberal regime for revealing sections. Only Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey are severely affected because the number of sections there is reduced nearly four times! What do you say with this proposal, Mr. Tsvetanov and the signature of the text? You tell Bulgarian citizens abroad, ethnic Bulgarians: Brothers Bulgarians, calmly, Yours is not lost. Only Bulgarian citizens will be hit by ethnic Turks in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus discrimination acquires its ugliest possible expression.. becomes discrimination on an ethnic basis! You will go into history with this shameful act and divide the nation into ethnic Bulgarians into ethnic Turks! You are violating the basic constitutional principle of equal applicability of Constitution and laws! Dear colleagues, this is indeed a serious crime, an anti-democratic price that you pay to the extreme nationalists you are in union with. Mr. Chairman, here I would like to say that there is no more pathetic argument than that you achieve equality in the treatment of countries. Equality! For all, the "up to 35 sections" is true, only the subject of constitutional voting rights is not the territory, but the Bulgarian citizen and therefore the number of sections will be determined according to the will of the subject of constitutional law! Everything else is fiction! Everything else is an attempt to mask a fascist ethno-Nazi exit that the Bulgarian Parliament will finalise today!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u49	Mr. Mestan, I'm making a note of the words you use.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u50	I mean it with absolute conviction. Are you in pain with the truth, Mr. Chairman? What are you making me a note for? What is the name of discrimination against ethnic citizens? How? Science deals with legal terms for this thing and the term is "ethnonicism." History will condemn you for this act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mestan, I would like to draw your attention to you, because I see that you are almost all in this Chamber, the three contributors to these proposals. I sincerely hope it's a figment of your oversight, because I don't want to think it's a conscious error. You proposed in § 2, para. 4 of art. 14 to be renumbered as para. 5. Did you see what al is saying? 4 which you propose to renumber as para. Five? It states that al. 3 which allows the opening of sections outside diplomatic and consular representations shall not apply in elections to Members of the European Parliament. What does that mean, fellow Members? It means that you not only do not offer to drop this text, but you are correct to offer its renumbering. That is to say, you agree, essentially, not to reveal sections in Member States outside the European Union in elections to the European Parliament. I don't know if you realize what you're suggesting. Will our exodus organisations agree with this proposal, which deprives them of their right to vote outside diplomatic and consular offices in elections to the European Parliament? This proposal has actually turned them into second-hand citizens, non-European citizens, along with the principle of sedentary, which you have also not suggested that I be involved in the first stage of the proposals for amendment to the Election Code, nor now. Don't you support our proposal to drop these texts...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u53	Time, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u54	...and our compatriots in Turkey also feel equal European citizens?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Second line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, I will try without emotions and without qualifications to read part of a reference which is on the request to the European Parliamentary Research and Documentation Centre, which the Parliamentary Directorate of the Ministry of Justice has made in this international way. I will only read the UK reference and the answers to the questions from the UK. To the first question: Can your country's citizens living abroad vote in the elections held in your country?. The answer is: Yes, British citizens living abroad for up to 15 years have the right to register in order to vote in British parliamentary elections and in those for MEPs in the area where they were registered before leaving Britain. They have no right to vote in the local elections. A separate rule for armed forces. Question two: What are the terms and conditions for forming voting stations abroad and are they identical to all kinds of elections? The answer from the UK is: "Citizens living abroad can vote by mail or by proxy, or personally in their designated polling section if they are in Britain during the elections. It is not possible to vote in person at any place abroad. Question three: Is there a requirement for individuals who are voting abroad to register in advance in the electoral lists? The UK replied: "Yes, all British citizens who have lived abroad for not less than 15 years must register in order to vote in their electoral region where they lived before leaving Great Britain. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please take an opinion on fascism in Britain. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Mestan, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, we are aware that there is a different practice of voting abroad in different countries. However, you, as a lawyer, chair of the Legal Commission, know that it is always a huge problem to take away once given rights. You owe the answer to the question: why is this liberal regime that has been operating for so many years in this House...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u59	Two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u60	Make it two, but it's a given right. Why are you taking him away? Because if you don't, you'll lose your power. Because you are the cop of the extreme nationalists who tell you: "You will listen to us, you will impose restrictions, you will take away certain rights, otherwise you will lose power! " Power has turned out to be sweeter than human rights! This is the truth about this government, about this ruling majority! As for the other line. You seem to feel obliged to give me a line every time, there is no harm in this dedication, for which behavior has a word of pejorative importance, which I will save you. I have worked hard together to try to understand the deep wisdom that is encoded in the tale that a smart dog in fog does not bark, but it seems to take more effort to see into the depths of this people's wisdom. In our proposal, we do not really treat the vote outside the European Union member states during elections to the European Parliament because we have had very long debates about this and we have not been able to save Bulgaria that amendment in the Constitution with you. Unlike the general principle that by ordinary law, the constitutional right of Bulgarian citizens can not be limited in the election of their national parliaments, unfortunately a right to impose such a restriction was introduced into a special law. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which does not mean, however, that we agree with the restriction. That is why we will support your proposal to drop para. 4. This is the position of the colleagues you said were all here. You neglected to say they were from DOT. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by non-EU MPs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Kazak. After him, the People's Representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I don't know if you feel foggy, but for us the situation is very clear and transparent. When an entity does not yet exist in legal peace, for us you are colleagues, former colleagues. About the fog, as I said, if you're feeling in some kind of idea fog, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u63	Mr. Kazak, please stop with the meteorology and concentrate on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u64	For us, the situation is very clear. The bill, I said it at first reading, is not a fruit of GERB, it is the Law of the Patriotic Front, which GERB supports because they have a deal. This is the condition for support of the cabinet Borisov. Not the proposal Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, but the proposal Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. This is the pure and clear truth, without any fog here. And for a reason, we have suggested that these texts be dropped. These are texts that aim to please the final nationalists, the xenophobes, who share even their own citizens with those who live in the country and those who live abroad, those who live in certain countries, clearly pleasing, acceptable to the patriots, and those who live in other countries, which are obviously not very pleasant and loved by the patriots, so they have to restrict their rights at the expense of the other Bulgarian citizens. The introduction of para. 5 with a final number of 35 aims precisely to damage and aggravate mostly our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey, for whom it is clear in all these years that they have voted widely, that 35 sections are extremely insufficient for them as a number, that they have voted in over 130 sections and have filled them with enough votes, so that none of these sections have proved unnecessary and burdened the state and the state budget, unlike many other sections that have been revealed in other countries where they have voted, perhaps even one-digit voters. Never before have these compatriots of ours in the Republic of Turkey had they represented and given no reason for the slightest doubt that they pose a threat to national security, so you see, to give an argument to the patriots to twist the hands of the government that, if you see, national security was above everything! What threat to national security are our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey? When did they become a threat to national security that you were going to limit the possibility of voting? This is ridiculous, fellow Members! Now you have the rare chance, last, to adjust yourself, to make sure that the mind, mind, if you will and dignity, top the thin, pleasing political accounts and the desire at all costs to strengthen in power and vote on the text to fulfill the spirit of the Bulgarian Constitution, to guarantee the equality of Bulgarian citizens and to make every Bulgarian citizen feel that his country holds and cares for him, as he fulfils his obligations to it and his civic duty to participate in elections. Dear colleagues, vote for the abolition of para. 5, if you really want to belong to European parties! Otherwise your place will be much easterly somewhere in Asia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Radan Kanev. After him Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to speak very briefly because we have talked too much on this Law, both in the examination of the presidential veto and in the previous reading. Let us, by voting on this paragraph, answer a simple question: what is the policy of the majority in this Parliament with regard to Bulgarians abroad and their participation in Bulgarian political life? Are we making their situation worse or improving it? What is the political trend? They can't be two at once. Or it becomes easier to vote abroad and the Bulgarian Parliament gives a clear sign that Bulgarians abroad are a national priority, that the unity of our nation in and beyond the borders of the country is important for the government in Bulgaria, or we do the opposite. We make it worse, we make it difficult, we give a clear sign that there is no such priority and that for this management Bulgarians living abroad are not an important part of the Bulgarian nation. Again I say: this is about trends, not about comparison with what is the British law and what is the Bulgarian law. They're obviously different, and it's quite obvious that the national profile is quite different, too. The economic migrants from Britain to abroad are a small percentage of the population, the economic migrants from Bulgaria to abroad are a very, very large percentage of the population. After all, in order to decide whether we approve or worsen the chances of Bulgarians abroad voting, we need to answer the simple question: The purpose of this Election Code should make it easier for Bulgarians abroad to vote, as well as any Bulgarian legislation should take into account the geographical division of the nation and make it easier for Bulgarians abroad to be part of the Bulgarian national, political, social and economic community in any way. But as far as the Election Code is concerned, the issue is the vote. We should not allow a debate on the vote of the Bulgarians in the Republic of Turkey to happen here. It is undoubtedly part of the debate, but if our goal is to encourage the maximum number of Bulgarians living abroad in multiple elections in order to increase their activity, to vote more and more, then we must assume that Mr. Mestan is not right at all and the limit of 35 sections does not at all affect only Turkey. It only concerns Turkey, but last year. However, no one can tell you what affects next year, because no one can predict the dynamics, the displacement of the Bulgarians, their desire to participate in the political process. I say that there are many countries to which more likely in the next elections, 35 sections will prove insufficient. On this occasion, I note that one of the biggest proceeds of this bill is the abolition of the so-called "automatic section." Believe me, if the automatic section had it and there were going to vote more than 100 people, as they voted in the last elections, and it would be much greater encouragement to open additional new sections, as the Bulgarians who do it, who spend their own money and spend their own time to discover these sections, see that this makes sense. Finally, I do not know whether, during the time of the endless debates on this Election Code and the long time since the submission of this project, which we are currently voting at second reading, during its vote at first reading, its examination in the Commission and its vote at second reading, you felt a rather serious irony for the text. It provides for different treatment of Bulgarians living within the borders of the European Union and outside the borders of the European Union. In the meantime, as we scratch our languages for the retailer, it turns out that 200,000 Bulgarians will change the status. From living within the borders of the European Union they will find themselves living outside the borders of the European Union at the will of their host country Britain. Has anyone ever thought that as long as we vote on the same text, the world is changing? Thank you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mestan. And Daniel Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kanev, our position is in the proposal. And we are absolutely right in this proposal, because if our proposal is accepted, and if your proposal is accepted, it will have to be possible, in time, in England, for example, to reveal not 35, but 350 sections, as well as in the United States. I have not reduced the problem only to the Republic of Turkey. I've deciphered the actual motive of the importers. In particular, with this change in the Law they say this is exactly what they take for a restriction as a number of sections in all other countries outside Turkey to tell their voters with a pro-nationalist profile: Here you see, we were able to influence GERB, so we call Prime Minister Borisov a recipient of us. He listens to us and we impose our will. We hit Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey. This is the actual motive of the importers and, unfortunately, it is unfortunate, Mr. Kirilov, that you fell for this game. Is power really that sweet? [[crowd cheering, cheering.]] It should be possible, I repeat, Mr. Kanev, in any country outside Bulgaria, that the number of sections is a function of the will of the subject of constitutional law, the Bulgarian citizen with equal constitutional rights, both in England and in Germany and in Belgium and in the United States of America. That's our real thesis. Everything else is an attempt to decipher the wicked model of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Second line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, I take a line not because you provoke me with the particular example. I take a line to share the following: it is not ironic, I feel sad when someone is trying to manipulate the truth when someone is trying to mislead our fellow citizens outside of Bulgaria, trying to give them some ideas or other. For Bulgarians abroad, Mr. Kanev, nothing changes. And what you have launched in communications with such communities is the dropping of mechanisms that have proven their wickedness. Do you refuse to improve, to remove regimes that have created an obvious problem? What do you want to vote again in Poland 200 accidentally staying Bulgarians who are no longer there? Is that the big complaint? The rights of Bulgarians abroad are not deteriorated by nothing. And for the example of England, the regime is the same, whether England is in the European Union or outside the European Union. There's only one detail that's on a formal procedural basis. This is the mechanism for presenting the proposal by the head of diplomatic and consular representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. You won't take advantage of... National Representative Stanislav Anastasov. While he's coming to the stands, let's greet our guests from Plovdiv! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable importers! In this, to put it mildly, a strange bill, I don't know who, in order to change the Election Code, only a few months before the elections themselves, the picture is quite complete. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u73	Please, on the suggestions. On top of that, you don't have one, but, I agree, you only talk about proposals. We're at second reading. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u74	I'll talk about the proposals, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u75	I'm waiting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u76	If you have the opportunity to predict the future, that's okay. There is only one thing missing, colleagues, in order to fully understand the text that has been presented to us, and the proposals that have been presented to us, which is, no offense, Mr. President, Mrs. Tsacheva and her hospitality, and her stenograms, how these proposals are discussed and how we come to numbers such as 35. Definitely the transparency of the first examination of the Election Code was much greater: how one proposes 50 sections of Mr. Zelenogorski, another of the importers offers 15. This is one of the possible explanations for how you got to 35. Was it just a bargain or something in the middle? Is there another scenario? Mr. Kirilov, unfortunately, you're not here, you're not from the importers, but you're from the group that brought it in. There have been some such, supposedly experiments since 2013, which the European Court of Human Rights rejected. Yes, and ruled on the Constitutional Court, and condemned Bulgaria, unfortunately. We've made an inverse account of how many people can vote, divide and get the number of sections. Now a little more serious about what is definitely happening is shameful. The right of Bulgarians abroad to vote, honourable importers, is one of the aspects of the universal right to vote, that is, from the evolution of the right to vote, when it happened for all men first, when women were then allowed to vote, then and certain groups of society, you had a proposal in this direction, and the Bulgarians abroad. Now I have one question: because you are obviously under the influence of your coalition partners, who, Mr President, the Council of Europe defines them as................................ I'm sorry, they're not my words. [[Heckling]] How far do you intend to go with the withdrawal of the universal right to vote? We start with the Bulgarians abroad. We will limit them. Are we going to take it completely? Are we going to continue? Please step out, replicate me and tell me where you're going to stop. Tomorrow-the day after tomorrow, your partners have expressed no one's worries about who's stopping them, who's hanging around their feet in their own country, let's not decide to take away the right to vote for others as well, according to the statement of "ethnos"? Or do we intend to restrict the rights of Bulgarians abroad, which we have declared to be our priority? Why do we even have a policy for Bulgarians abroad if we are going to restrict their right to vote, honourable importers? Explain to me. Isn't that schizophrenia in politics? Or are we planning to take some other aspects of Bulgarians abroad from their rights as, for example, the right to citizenship that they still have? I sincerely hope that you will come to your senses and justify the folk saying that whatever you get together with, that is what you become. This is not evolution. On the contrary, this is a return to the pre-renaissance era in electoral rights and I hope that this process and this burden for the Republic of Bulgaria will be completed really quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. I'm seriously thinking about whether or not I have psychic powers. [[Radio.]] A line? Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go, procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, please do not allow people who are talking about fascist ideology from the National Assembly to use Goebbels' fascist primos. From this tribune and this gentleman and other similar ones, many times claim a lie that some of GERB's partners were defined as fascist parties and organizations somewhere in the Council of Europe. Please do not let fascist methods manipulate the Bulgarian public opinion with Goebbels' means. That's unacceptable. I will not talk about people who call themselves liberals because how liberal they are, God knows, so this cannot continue in the Bulgarian National Assembly! If anyone believes that there are fascist parties or organizations in Bulgaria that are prohibited under Bulgarian law, be so good as to submit the relevant requests to the prosecution and ask for their closure. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. I'm sorry, but I have no experience in Goebbels' practices, and that's probably why I'm missing out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u80	A lie repeated a thousand times becomes true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u81	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, do not let such remarks be made to you, because what Mr. Karakachanov said is a lie. Look. [[shows]] , see: European Commission report against racism and intolerance of 19 June 2014, published on 16 September 2014. Eighteenth page, tenth row, see what it says: In Bulgaria there are several other smaller ultranationalist, fascist political parties and groups, including the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria [[(noise and cheering)♪ ♪ ♪ From the DSS ♪]] , IMRO [[(noise and cheering)♪ ♪ ♪ From the DSS ♪]] , BNS [[(screams:) "Ah"?♪ ♪ ♪ From the DSS ♪]] Nationalist Party of Bulgaria. And look what else it says. This is not a statement by the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, it is not the Chief Mufti, it is not the DPS, it is the Committee against intolerance and racism in the Council of Europe, I continue further down:............................................................................. [[(Laughter, applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. Are there any other statements? The word has the popular representative Stanislav Stanilov. You have the floor, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u84	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, just a few sentences on the discussion that is under way. The letters of any organisations to the Council of Europe shall have only a consultative character. I remind everyone who speaks from this tribune that Bulgaria has a Constitution, there is legislation, there is a prosecution. [[DPS lines.]] And if those parties that are mentioned are really such parties, they have such actions, they have such characteristics, the Prosecutor General's Office is sending an alert to the prosecutor, he is investigating them, suing them and so on. And there is no such thing, it has not happened, and it cannot happen, because the indications of fascism and any other similar performances against the background of Bulgarian political life have no value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u85	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. We assume that this was the way it was led. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put the proposal to the vote by the MP Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u86	You shut down, but watch the other side of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u87	Mr. Tsonev, the word is needed from a place, I'm sorry. You know that very well. They voted 131 MPs: 27, against 69, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva. The Commission does not support it. They voted 133 MPs: 25, against 80, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov. The Commission does not support it. They voted 130 MPs: 24, against 81, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 137 MPs: 34 against 80, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the motion by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak. The Commission does not support it. They voted 130 MPs: 22, against 88, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u88	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for a re-voting because during the debates, some Members in the last row said they would support these proposals, and I do not see them in the Chamber. Maybe they'll come in, so let's give them the opportunity to really support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u89	How long do you suggest we give them? Revoting procedure. The Quaestors, is there any movement on the towers of parliament to know if I should stop? They voted 131 MPs: 23, against 88, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 fully supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 100, against 25, abstention 8. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. First negative vote, the people's representative Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against it because with the text that you have just adopted, colleagues, you have committed another rude violation of the Bulgarian Constitution. A very strange way, honourable Members of the majority, you have chosen to celebrate the 25-year date since the entry into force of the Bulgarian Constitution. This, dear colleagues of the majority, is called rude, yet another rape of the Bulgarian Constitution. This, colleagues, in criminal law, is now called a relapse. This is your third, I hope it's the last time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u91	Second negative vote please, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! I also voted against. This decision of GERB passed that threshold of measured opposition of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which was in line with the undisputed vote of the vote of the voter during In 2014, namely, the vote of the voter by presumption is not contested. In the second year, you launched a new shot against democracy, which is three in a row in this election law, including the ban on advocacy in another language, and the restriction abroad. You have obeyed the democracy of governance ambitions and the dreams of ultranationalists in order to minimize the burden of a democratic, liberal, tolerant party, such as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear colleagues of GERB, you have given us a cause. You have no doubt that everywhere we go, especially in election meetings, we will explain to the people who are already targeted for you in Dulovo and Yablanovo and Kotel and in Isperih and in Podeva as of this morning I take into account the report that you have forbidden full Bulgarian citizens to vote in any elections. You've restricted their rights! And one more thing personal and personal to Mr. Tsvetanov, which I'm done with. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB.]] In politics, I've noticed something. When you bend down, you and your spine lose some of their nobility. That is exactly what you did during the vote on the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Is there another negative vote? I won't. Let's move on to the next paragraphs. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u94	Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Svilen Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. The 1st sentence is amended as follows: The executives and other institutions carry out activities of an organizational and technical nature in the provision of electoral committees, including with ballots, election papers, equipment, consumables and other materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u95	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 118 MPs: 97 against 17, abstention 4. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u96	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the sittings of the Central Election Commission' shall be replaced by "all meetings of the Central Election Commission', including the working meetings and after the word "the' shall be added to the whole with sound and picture. 2. In para. The second sentence is inserted after the first sentence after the words of the sittings. The Central Election Commission shall publish the full stenographic protocols no later than 24 hours after the end of the relevant meeting. 3. In para. 3 after the word "Commission" the Committee shall be added "including from the working meetings" and shall be added as well as the agenda on which the meeting took place, including a time index, allowing the visualization of the video recording from the meeting by parts according to the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u97	You have a say in this? There are no speeches. I shall close the debate and put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 4 with its respective content on the Commission report. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. Vote 117 MPs: 99 against 15, abstention 3. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I voted against the proposed text because this text represents the demagogy we are witnessing in the adoption of these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have recently adopted the Election Code. The speed at which the changes we are dealing with today are inexplicable from a legal point of view, but from a populist point of view is explained everything, including what was proposed in § 4. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, in a situation where these proposals restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens to choose and to be elected, we conditionally, for the purpose of populism, absolutely in the style of demagogy, offer some transparency to some institution Central Election Commission. It simply does not need one when there are forbidden rights that are democratic foundations. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that any retreat from the principles of democracy, any retreat from democracy, creates conditions for the field of populism in which GERB clearly falls, including today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u100	Dear Mr President, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to remind them that the Rules of Procedure have the opportunity to take a detailed opinion on the texts and to develop a thesis in speech, in accordance with the Rules, in order to enable their opponents to respond accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u101	You're banning a negative vote, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u102	We didn't forbid it, but you're abusing the negative vote. These are arguments that are essentially.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u103	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u104	How to make a statement and which procedure, honourable Members, to explain to my colleague...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u105	Tell me which text broke Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u106	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u107	...to explain to the colleague why the adoption of these texts was necessary? At the request of the Bulgarians abroad, Mr. Karadayi, not our populism. I can also show letters and correspondence with Bulgarians abroad who complained about not being able to watch the meetings and really cannot watch them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] There's no way I can take away the rights of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u109	But you took mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u110	And whether or not there is abuse of rights is still judging the lead court. Are there any other speeches and negative votes? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, now you have the right to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u111	Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev for the creation of a new § 7 in respect of art. 59. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva for the creation of a new § 3a in relation to Rule 181.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u112	The Commission has not considered it. There's no point in reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u113	The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 5 and 6: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325, para. 5 the words § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 371, para. 6 the words "six" are replaced by "six" and "six" and "six" and "six" and "six" are
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u114	You have the floor for speeches on the Commission proposal to create paragraphs 5 and 6 with their respective content. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I and my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are convinced that all our proposals are within the framework of the principles, objectives, the scope of the Election Code project and that is why we support our proposals relating to the abolition of the ban on agition in a language other than the official language, as this is in line with several recommendations of both the Venice Commission and the OSCE observation missions, and of PACE, which have repeatedly made binding recommendations to Bulgaria to remove this ban in its electoral legislation. You know that the court has also abolished much of the sanctions imposed on this text. We also expect the Strasbourg court to rule in this regard. So, in order to stop the series of cases to stop the humiliation and shame that our country will endure for being condemned for violating fundamental constitutional and human rights guaranteed in European documents for human rights protection, now is the time to remove this ban from the Election Code. It doesn't bring any good. On the contrary, only, as I said, allows Bulgaria to be fingered as a country that violates fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor to speak on the content and on the formal rejection of the relevant paragraphs, which were read by Mr. Kirilov, for which the Constitution is obviously not the only thing that matters, not only...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u118	Please, no such qualifications! I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you for your comment. I take the floor to give Mr. Kirilov the opportunity to take the floor and say what remark was made to you earlier on his part. At the moment I am arguing, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposals that we have made in the relevant paragraphs fall exclusively within the field of the bill adopted at first reading, namely this bill examines the order, manner and conditions for the voting of Bulgarian citizens... main constitutional law of Bulgarian citizens. From this point of view, each of the texts proposed by us on a formal basis, which are rejected as not within the scope of the bill adopted at first reading, are full demagogy. From this point of view, Mr President, I would like to say that at the moment with these texts, with these acts of the National Assembly, which are being voted on now, the Bulgarian Constitution is also being violated, the laws are also being broken, and shortly before Mr Kirilov claimed that you should violate the Rules of the National Assembly and not give the floor on specific and clear texts which give rights to MPs, and I take the occasion of his obvious personal attitude is such and he does not have the right, ladies and gentlemen, to stand here today, from this tribune, as President of the Legal Committee, especially to report the Election Code, because only one or two months ago, when considering changes in the Election Code [[Full lines: "In essence! "]] Mr. Danail Kirilov allowed, in violation of all legal and ethical norms and rules, to submit to the National Assembly a report from a non-existent committee meeting and to place the National Assembly in a delicate situation to look for a way out of its unlawful conduct. He's doing the same thing right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. I expect procedures in the manner of conduct. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a line precisely to try to demonstrate to my colleague Karadaiye compliance with the regulations. Not that I wasn't personally offended, I might have asked for a personal explanation so you wouldn't be able to reply again, but I feel that you're commenting on me too personally, so I'm going to abstain. I would just like to remind you of all these provisions, Mr Karadayi, were proposed in your bill, which by voting in this House was rejected at first reading. Dismissed at first reading! They were rejected just a few weeks ago. With regard to personal attacks and the claim of any procedural violations, Mr Karadayi, I, and then I was honest with you, and I did the impossible in a few minutes to supply all MPs with a reading text so that they could participate as prepared in the debate as possible, not to say: Someone read to us from the tribune some texts and we could not see them, comply with them, and carry them away accordingly. From now on, such a statement will be considered to be personal, not to mislead anyone under any responsibility, but personally for myself, I will consider it extremely defamatory and most likely politically manipulative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. I take a line because in the Legal Committee I made the proposal that these texts should not be viewed as they do not comply with the Rules. For a long time now we have been listening to the Rules and the Constitution, the Rules and the Constitution, and I cannot understand when it is in favor of the DPS, immediately the Constitution comes first, and the Rules disappear as a legal act, and it is very clearly written inside that of the seven bills only one has passed, in fact we are looking at the changes in it. I can't figure out where we're supposed to be looking at proposals that have nothing to do with coverage. When you gave me Mr. Karadaye the Constitution, and now I have to go give him a Ruler to read it and know what it says in art. 81, para. Two sentence three?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u124	Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Karadayi, come and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, if you take personal or personal attacks to indicate the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the laws of the country and the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, then from this point of view, your declarations neither accept them nor listen to them, nor have any weight whatsoever, because you allow yourself to violate your oath as a People's Representative, and the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly, and the laws of the country, and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and they have no meaning to you, what do your declarations mean to us?! The second line has nothing to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Any other speeches? I won't. Any other procedures? I won't. I shall close the debate and put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 5 and 6 with their respective content in accordance with its report. Vote 117 MPs: 89, against 20, abstention 8. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted. We're doing a 30-minute interruption and proceed at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u127	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Kadiev: There's a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 375 up to 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The absolutely identical proposal was made by the national representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u129	Are there any speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. For the procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u130	Thank you, Madam President. In view of the important vote to be taken, on behalf of a group, I ask for a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u131	The request is reasonable in view of the presence of the Members of the National Assembly in the Chamber. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - absent Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Is Mr. Turnovallisky here? I marked him as present. It's here from the additional colleagues. Colleagues, there's a quorum. In addition they entered: Alexander Metodiev, Aliosman Imamov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Zafirov, Angel Naydenov, Boyka Marinska, Anna Barakova, Dobrin Danev, Ahmed Ahmedov, Boris Yachev, Atanas Tashkov, Magdalena Tasheva, Georgi Turnovalyski, Korman Ismailov, Alexander Nenkov, Desislava Atanasova, Iskren Veselinov, Milen Mihov, Tsveta Karayancheva and Mr. Karakachanov. Colleagues, we're moving on. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, identical with the proposal of the MPs Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. These proposals are not supported by the Commission. We are voting for unsupported proposals. They voted 118 MPs: 8 against 81, abstention 29. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u132	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal from MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Chetin Kazak. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission did not consider on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Rules, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u133	Are there any statements on the name of the division? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by importer, fully supported by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 107, against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u134	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: In § 3, the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss ofsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss withsssssssssssssssssssssss ofssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss withssssssssssssssssssssssssssss There are more than 250 people in total in the settlements that form the town hall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov: In § 3 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 16 words "400 people" shall be replaced by "250 people." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u135	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to appeal to support the proposal that we have tabled from the Reformation Block to reduce this figure from 400 to 250. We are talking about the possibility of local self-government of smaller towns to be able to choose mayors, as you all know very well. Indeed, there were problems with the current regime in previous changes, when the restriction was only 100 people and came to some strange situations. But this increase, which was made to 400, is definitely at the other extreme. Indeed, in this way, we are taking away a large part of the small settlements the opportunity to effectively manage themselves, they are choosing the mayor, not someone to appoint him, to choose a mayor who knows the problems of the settlement, who really wants to work for him to develop and not the people of him to go to the big city. I see that other colleagues have tabled a similar proposal from the current 400 to go to the reasonable compromise of 250 people in order to be able to form a town hall and directly elect the mayor of such a populated area. I think that, including importers who offer a reduction from the current 400 to 350, are also aware of this problem, but it seems to me that this reduction with only 50 people is actually rather symbolic and will not produce any significant effect. So if we really want to change this thing and make it work, I urge you to really support it to be 250 people and be able to form respective mayors and directly choose their mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u137	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Replies to other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to support the proposals made by the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Lachezar Nikiforov, who offer 250 people. You know that the BSP has always insisted on a minimum threshold when it comes to the possibility that direct candidates for elections of mayors of mayors of 100, 150 people. Now, in order not to make it difficult for the discussion and given the starting position that the majority is proposing, I will not put forward any other proposals in the form of editing to be 200 or 150 as a minimum living in the settlements. But I really think that we should accept what simultaneously enables the selection of people who are able to actually exercise local authority and at the same time allow more Bulgarian citizens to directly broadcast those they rely on and those who perform part of local self-government and local administration. Notice that Bulgaria is in a very severe depressive trend. If it is maintained, in just three years the living in Bulgaria will fall below seven million. In addition, small settlements are most difficult to find a livelihood outside agriculture, and older people prevail there. For this reason, all possible signals to these people should be given that they are not a second category, that they should be motivated to live where they are located and feel equivalent to the other Bulgarian citizens. For this reason, I appeal to the MPs to further lower this limit. Furthermore, if statistics are made, it will turn out that in Bulgaria the largest number of settlements with residents is between 200 and 300 people, that is, unfortunately, the mass Bulgarian village in the large number of residents in the cities. So let us respect these realities in the country and not deviate dramatically from the current framework, which is the most democratic and therefore to accept the additional proposals, rather than what the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u139	A line to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which is identical with the proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov: In § 3 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Structure of the Republic of Bulgaria, in art. 16 words - 400 people - to replace - 250 people. We are voting on the identical proposals not supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 44, against 54, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 3 by importer, which becomes § 7 on the Commission report, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 100, against 12, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u140	Paragraph 4. Proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Hussein Hafuzov and Mariana Georgieva. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Law, since it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. A proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the Law, since it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u141	Statements under § 4 by importer? Here you are, Mr. Hamid. We're debating the moment of the Law's entry into force, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking the floor by the text of the importer. It seems to me that here either the referees made a typo, or they just missed a.......I don't believe it was intentional, there's a drop between the first and the second word. The text should be by making this proposal: the call does not enter into force. Because, Madam President, you cannot call this crime against the Bulgarians abroad and call it a law and it will come into force! Do not think that the Constitutional Court will allow such nonsense to come into effect. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u143	Dear Mr Hamid, in order to rule on the Constitutional Court, the condition is that there is a law in force. I'll take your joke, but there won't be any lines on it. Are there any speeches by the MPs? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 8. Vote 119 MPs: 104 against 11, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted, and with that the amendments to the Election Code I hope the last indefinitely forward. Moving on to next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CUSTOMERS - A sequel from the plenary session on 7 July 2016, Thursday. In the second vote, the title is also adopted from § 1 to § 51 including, which becomes § 52. The reporting of § 52 by importer is pending. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Paragraph 52. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 52, but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts proposes to form as § 53 and § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 189 is repealed. § 54. Article 190 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u145	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for paragraphs 53 and 54 on its report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u146	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57 which become paragraphs 55, 56, 57, 58 and 59 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u147	Anblok, we vote on the reported paragraphs. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. These proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u148	Paragraph 58. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 58 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts proposes to form as § 60, § 61 and § 62: ........................................................ Article 196 is repealed. § 61. Article 197 is repealed. § 62. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Commission supports the text of the importer for paragraphs 59, 60, 61, 62 and proposes that they become from § 63 to § 66, respectively. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 67: ................. Chapter twenty-seven with art. 212, 212a and 213 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 65 to 72 including those renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u149	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 60 to 76, including on the Commission's report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u150	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 73, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 234 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 the words the customs duties shall be replaced by the customs duties. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 the value of the goods shall be added after the word "the goods'. 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "exportable goods' shall be replaced by "active goods'; (b) c. 2 after the word "the goods" shall be added either on export or on export the value of the goods. 4. In para. 4 after the words the customs value of the goods shall be commaed and the value of the goods shall be added to the export value of the goods and shall be replaced by the sum of the customs duties and shall be added to the export value of the goods. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 74, § 75 and § 76 and shall therefore renumber them and become § 78, § 79 and § 80. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 77, which shall become § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 238e: Art. 238e. A person who does not fulfil an obligation to declare the reference number of a binding tariff information decision shall be punished with a fine from 300 to 1500 BGN. For individuals, or with a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN. "For legal persons and sole proprietors. " The Commission shall support the text of an importer for § 78, which shall become § 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u151	Anblok, we are voting on paragraphs 77 to 82, including the Commission's report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. These texts have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u152	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 79, which shall become § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... Part 10 is created with art. 241 " 266": "Tenth" Provisions relating to specific controls Section I Ship control Art. 241. (1) The customs controls in the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria of a ship shall consist in checking the ship's documents for the goods carried, the cash carried, the ship's premises and property, the luggage of passengers, as well as the belongings of the crew and other persons present on the ship. (2) For inspections carried out on ships under para. 1 the customs authorities shall draw up a protocol in duplicate which shall be signed by the master of the vessel or by another authorised person.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Art. 242. Ships arriving from and for ports of the Republic of Bulgaria may only stop at ports in which customs offices are located or in other ports after authorisation of customs authorities. These vessels shall be subject to customs supervision and may be subject to customs control throughout their stay. Art. 243. (1) Without the authorisation of the customs authorities, vessels carrying out an international journey under customs supervision and control shall not be able to approach or take up other vessels. (2) Without the authorisation of the customs authorities, ships under customs supervision may not be accepted or transferred to the coast or to any other vessel and vice versa any goods, levs and cash in stock, and precious metals, and precious stones and articles thereof. This provision shall not apply to devices for loading, unloading or protecting the ship from damage. Art. 244. (1) Customs control of baggage of passengers and crews of ships shall be carried out on the ship or at places designated by the customs authorities in the port area as soon as possible. (2) Before the beginning of customs controls, the master of the ship shall present to the customs authorities, in person or through another authorised person, a shipping agent, respectively: 1. data through the National Centre for Electronic Maritime Transport Document, IMO FAL forms of the Convention on the facilitation of international maritime navigation, drawn up in London on 9 April 1965. (Ratified by Law of the State of the Republic of Bulgaria, No. 59, 1998.), in force for the Republic of Bulgaria from 21 June 1999 (DV, No. 56 from 1999) 2. the cargo ship manifest; 3. the transport documents for the goods; 4. other shipping documents required by the customs authorities to carry out the controls. (3) Customs controls shall cover all spaces of the craft, including passenger and crew cabins, and shall be carried out as soon as possible. (4) Customs authorities may place customs seals or other security marks on separate premises of the ship for the provision of customs controls. (5) After completion of the controls, the customs authorities shall record the seals or other security signs placed in the ship's provisions declaration (IMO FAL Form 3). The vehicle documents and other documents under para. 2, p. 4 shall be returned to the master of the ship or to another authorised person, the ship's agent, respectively, of the ship's manager. Art. 245. The checks carried out under art. 241 shall be registered at the customs office in a register in a customs information system designated for that purpose. In a file, copies for the customs office shall be kept of the records drawn up, declarations submitted, cargo manifests, crew lists and passengers. Art. 246. (1) A landing order shall be submitted to the customs office to authorise the unloading of goods from the ship. The customs authorities shall authorise the landing by registering the landing order in a designated register and returning it to the sender for submission to the port operator. (2) The unloading of goods by the vessel may begin after presentation to the customs office of a port operator's registered order under para. 1. (3) Upon completion of unloading, the landing order shall be applied to the temporary storage declaration. Art. 247. (1) The port operator shall, in the event of the landing of less or more parcels, damage to the packaging of the goods, differences in the weight of the parcels and lots and in the event of any other irregularness, draw up an act of order of the port operator, which shall be signed by the master of the ship and by the customs officer. (2) A copy of the act shall be notified under para. 1 shall be transmitted to the customs office and stored in the temporary storage declaration. Art. 248. (1) After the final landing of the vessel, the port operator shall draw up a general act on the goods actually landed by the vessel, which shall be signed by the master of the vessel and by the customs officer. A copy of the general act shall be transmitted to the customs office and kept in the temporary storage declaration. (2) The goods found at unloading should in addition be entered in the temporary storage declaration if they are not the subject of a customs offence. (3) The goods found at unloading shall be less reflected in the declaration of temporary storage in accordance with those established by the General Act and the notification actually landed by the General Act. Art. 249. No later than 24 hours before the start of loading of goods on a ship leaving the customs territory of the Union, a loading order shall be submitted to the customs office. When authorising the loading of the goods, the order shall be registered in a designated logbook and signed by a customs officer and by a personal seal. One copy of the order shall be retained for the customs office and the rest shall be returned to the port operator. Art. 250. (1) After loading of the ship, the port operator shall transmit to the customs office a copy of the cargo order signed by the master of the ship for each individual batch of goods. (2) The cargo orders by para. 1 shall be entered at the customs office in a register designated for that purpose and shall apply to the loading order. Art. 251. Upon completion of customs controls, the customs authorities shall remove the seals or other security signs placed, validate the second copy of the ship's provisions declaration (IMO FAL Form 3) and transmit to the master written consent that the ship may leave the port. Art. 252. The authorities of the State-owned undertaking (Port Infrastructure) shall authorise the departure of a ship with a certificate of departure after the customs office authorises the release of the ship from customs control through the National Centre for Electronic Documenting of Maritime Transport. Art. 253. The Executive Agency of the Sea Administration or the port operator or the shipping agent, respectively, the ship manager, shall be obliged to carry the customs authorities to the ships for carrying out the control activities. Art. 254. The users of whole or technological parts of ports shall be obliged to provide the customs offices free of charge with the necessary service premises and facilities for customs control. Section II Control of trains Art. 255. (1) Trains arriving in and leaving the customs territory of the Union shall stop at the border railway stations in certain places and shall immediately be presented by the authorised railway carrier to the customs authorities for customs control. (2) The control of the trains and the goods, passengers and luggage carried therein shall be carried out at the appointed time for the stay of the train at the border train station. The customs authorities shall be entitled to carry out checks on both locomotives, wagons, luggage wagons and mail wagons and on service staff of the train. (3) The order by which customs controls are carried out at the common border stations and/or during the movement of passenger trains shall be determined in the concluded international contracts. (4) The customs authorities shall be entitled to control passenger trains and passengers and baggage carried therein and during the movement of those trains. (5) In the performance of his duties under para. 4 the customs authorities travel free of charge, for which they are legitimised in front of the railway carrier's transport brigade with a service card issued by the Customs Agency. (6) The time for the stay of the trains in the border railway stations is determined by the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Art. 256. (1) For trains arriving on and leaving the customs territory of the Union after the time specified in the timetable, the border train station shall communicate to the customs office of entry or exit immediately after receipt of the notice of their delay and of the trains moving without schedule after receiving the notice of the designated movement of those trains. (2) Trains arriving on and leaving the customs territory of the Union may depart from the border stations after the customs authorities have given their consent. (3) The border stations in their records of arriving and leaving trains shall determine a column in which the customs authorities shall record the date, time and minute of release of those trains from customs control, sign and place their personal seal. (4) When carrying out customs controls of passengers arriving in the customs territory of the Union during their movement, the release under para. 3 shall be entered and validated after the start of the customs control of the train. Art. 257 (1) Customs offices of entry or exit, supervising and controlling at border railway stations shall keep a register of trains arriving on and leaving the customs territory of the Union. (2) In the register under para. 1 enter train details, number of wagons carrying goods, empty wagons and numbers of transmission and transit payrolls submitted for each train for transmitted and accepted consignments by authorised railway carriers. Art. 258. (1) For each train arriving in the customs territory of the Union at the border train station, the authorised railway carrier shall submit to the customs office of entry: 1. the transmission and/or transit payroll in which the consignments entered into the customs territory of the Union and the wagons carrying them are described; 2. for each railway consignment described in the payrolls, a copy of copy 2 of the CIM bill of lading or CMGS. (2) Transmission and transit payrolls shall be registered at the customs office of entry in a register designated for that purpose. Art. 259. (1) For each train leaving the customs territory of the Union, the authorised railway carrier shall submit to the customs office of exit: 1. the transmission and/or transit payroll, which describe the consignments taken out of the customs territory of the Union and the wagons carrying them; 2. for each railway consignment described in the payrolls, a copy of copy 2 of the CIM bill of lading or CMGS. (2) Transmission and transit payrolls shall be registered at the customs office of exit in a register designated for that purpose. Art. 260. Where it is established that the seals or other security signs placed on railway wagons under customs supervision are of defective integrity or there are visible traces of unauthorised access to the goods, the authorised railway carrier shall draw up a constitutional protocol which shall also be signed by the customs officer involved in its compilation. Two copies of the minutes shall be transmitted to the customs office. Art. 261. The National Railway Infrastructure Company is obliged to provide the customs offices with the necessary service premises and facilities for carrying out their control activities free of charge. Art. 262. The customs authorities shall be entitled to retain for inspection passenger trains arriving in and leaving the customs territory of the Union and after the time scheduled for their departure. Section III Aircraft control Art. 263. (1) The customs authorities shall carry out customs controls on aircraft, on their crew, on passengers carried and on their luggage, on goods unloaded from and loaded on those means when arriving from or leaving for a non-Union airport. (2) The customs authorities shall be entitled to carry out customs controls and any other controls entrusted to them under other legislation, the baggage of passengers carried, the goods unloaded by and on the goods loaded on those means when carrying out intra-Union flights. Art. 264. The customs authorities shall be entitled to retain aircraft for inspection after the time scheduled for their departure. Art. 265. Airport administrations managing airports approved for international air transport for civil purposes shall be obliged to provide the customs offices with the necessary service premises, facilities and control rooms for the performance of customs controls free of charge. Section IV Check of passengers and luggage Art. 266. (1) Customs checks of goods and of cash and of precious metals and precious stones and goods with and by them under the Currency Act shall be carried out by checking the data declared by the passenger and, at the discretion of the customs authorities, by checking the luggage and by personal examination of the passenger. (2) Check of luggage shall be carried out in the presence of the passenger or person authorised by him. (3) Personal examination shall be carried out: 1. in places or in certain premises prohibited from entering which are illuminated and heated, furnished with hangers and cupboards for the clothing and effects of the person on whom the examination is carried out and fitted with a bathroom for washing before and after the personal examination; 2. by a customs officer of the same sex as the person examined; 3. starting with regard to the head, shoes and parts of the upper garment; where the customs officer has serious doubts that the concealed goods are located in a particular part of the clothing or in the shoes, a check shall first be carried out on these parts of the clothing or shoes; 4. continuing with a review of the undressed underwear after checking the head, shoes and parts of the upper garment; 5. in certain body cavities and blindfolded places, only by a doctor summoned by the customs office in the presence of a customs officer; 6. to a minor and to a person placed under a limited or complete limitation may be carried out only in the presence of the legal representative or in the presence of a person accompanying him. (4) A protocol shall be drawn up for the personal review carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u153	Colleagues, speeches on the reported § 83 of the Commission report? I won't. We vote § 83. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u154	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 80, which shall become § 84. ss s s s s s s s Part 11 shall be created with art. 267.. 270............................................................................... ............................................... International postal consignments Art. 267. (1) The customs authorities shall control international postal consignments regarding compliance with customs, excise and currency legislation, as well as prohibitions and restrictions. The control shall be carried out using risk analysis techniques. (2) When importing or exporting goods contained in international postal consignments, the prohibitions introduced or restrictions relating to the protection of public morality, public policy and public security, the protection of human and animal health, the protection of plants, the protection of the environment and cultural heritage, the protection of national treasures having artistic, historical or archaeological value, or the protection of intellectual property rights shall be applied in compliance with the relevant legislation. Art. 268. (1) International postal consignments arriving on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried to the Bulgarian Communicator's Centre, (BRC) with (2) The consignments presented to the customs authorities with the bordero under para. 1, depending on the country of dispatch shall be allocated to: 1. goods in postal consignments with a presumption of Union status sent by Member States; 2. postal consignments marked with a label as set out in Annex 72 "01" to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447. 3. others. (3) Where the postal consignment contains both Union and non-Union goods, that consignment and all accompanying documents must be marked with the label provided for in Annex 72 "01" to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447. (4) Postal consignments to be forwarded for customs clearance to other places shall be carried under the transit procedure. A document may be used as a transit declaration. (5) For the Union goods contained in a consignment under para. 3 a separate proof of their customs status is required. The proof of the customs status may be placed either in the consignment itself, clearly indicating on the outside of the packaging or being sent separately, in which case being provided to the customs office of destination along with the consignment by the postal operator. (6) All postal consignments may be opened for verification of their contents in the presence of a customs officer without requiring notification of the consignee of the consignment. A record of postal and customs officials shall be drawn up for the results of the joint inspection. Art. 269. (1) Goods in a postal consignment intended for third countries whose value does not exceed EUR 1000 and which are not subject to export duty shall be deemed to be declared for export by their removal from the customs territory of the Union. The contents of the consignment should be described by the consignor in CN22 and/or CN23. (2) Goods in a postal consignment for which the requirements of para. 1 shall be declared electronically for placing under export procedure. (3) The carriage of international postal consignments by the postal operator through the postal system in accordance with the acts of the Universal Postal Union shall be regarded as transit. Art. 270. The postal operator shall be obliged to provide the customs offices with the necessary service premises and facilities for the purpose of carrying out the controls free of charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u155	Statements? I won't. I shall put to a vote supported by the Commission on a proposal from the importer § 80, which shall become § 84. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u156	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 81, which shall become § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Points 1 to 8 are repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 the Union is replaced by the Union/or carried out. 3. Points 10 to 20 are repealed. 4. Points 22 and 23 shall be repealed. 5. Points 26 and 27 are repealed. 6. Points 29 and 30 are repealed. 7. Point 32 is repealed. 8. They're creating a t. 37 and 38: ..37. The vessels and the vessels are vessels and vessels. 38. For the purposes of administrative criminal liability, the price of the goods for export is the ex-Bulgarian border or the market price of the goods without value added tax and excise duties, which would be paid under the same conditions for identical or similar goods between persons not related to the accompanying costs included in it, such as commission, packaging, transport, insurance and other costs directly related to the delivery to the Bulgarian border. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 86. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The (2) Until the establishment of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Authorisations for Access to the TIR procedure under art. 19th para. 3, The control of the permissions for access to the procedure shall be carried out in the current order by the Commission, including authorised representatives of the Customs Agency, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Association of Bulgarian Enterprises for International Transport and Passengers. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 83, which shall become § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ Until 1 October 2018, with the entry into service of the National System "Notification of arrival, presentation and temporary storage" as set out in the Annex to Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/578 of 11 April 2016 establishing a work programme on the development and implementation of the electronic systems provided for in the Union Customs Code (OJ L 99/6 of 15 April 2016.), hereinafter referred to as "Implementing Decision (EU) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 89: ........... 89................................................................... Until 2 October 2017, with the entry into service of the Customs Decision System, as set out in the Annex to Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/578, the application for the management of temporary storage facilities shall be submitted as set out in Annex 4 and the authorisation shall be issued as per Annex. No 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 85, which shall become § 90: .............................................................................. By 2 March 2020, with an improvement in the new computerised transit system, as set out in the Annex to Implementing Decision (EU) 2016/578, the Director of the Customs Agency shall issue authorisations for: 1. use of the Union transit procedure for goods carried by rail, by air or by sea on the basis of paper documents; 2. use of the Union transit procedure for goods carried by air or by sea on the basis of an electronic carrier. Proposal from the MPs Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86, which shall become § 91, and shall be replaced everywhere by the words The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 87, which becomes § 92, and everywhere the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u157	Let's put it this way, then you can move on. I shall put to the vote the texts of an importer of § 81, which shall become § 85, respectively, to those supported by the Committee on Importor § 88, which shall become § 93. Statements? I won't. 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u158	The Commission proposes to create a new § 94: ............................................................................... Unfinished until the entry into force of this law proceedings under the order of art. 3, para. 1, t. 13 of the National Revenue Agency Act relating to actions of acceptance, storage, management, sale, scrapping and destruction of goods seized and abandoned for the benefit of the State, led by the customs authorities, including graduates by a judicial act, shall be completed in the current order. According to § 89 the proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 89, which shall become § 95: § 95. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) c. 6 the words "m' shall be replaced by "mita'; (b) c. 30 words of customs duties shall be replaced by customs duties; (c) point 37 is amended as follows: ..37. A heat output product is a heat output product that is used directly or through a transmission environment. The heating energy product shall include all cases where energy products are burned and the heat obtained shall be used independently of its final purpose, with the exception of: (a) for purposes under point (a) 10 and 33; (b) for purposes other than motor fuel or heating fuel. (d) points 47 and 48 are amended as follows: ..47. The customs procedure is a special regime provided for in art. 210 of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 establishing the Union Customs Code (OJ L 269/1 of 10 October 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No are to apply to customs supervision which applies to non-Union goods when entering the customs territory of the Union and temporary storage, with the exception of the specific use procedure and the outward processing procedure. 48. The entry of excise goods into the territory of the European Union is to be carried out unless they are placed under a customs procedure within the meaning of point (c). 47, and also their exemption from this regime. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 4 the 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 3, p. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the registered under the established procedure at the time of placing the goods under customs procedure; 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." which consume their own electricity produced by a power plant with a total installed capacity of more than 5 MW or produce natural gas and consume it for their own use, as well as persons authorised under the Energy Act for the production of electricity, for the transport or distribution of electricity or natural gas, for electricity trading, for the public supply of electricity or natural gas or for the supply of final suppliers of electricity or natural gas when consuming electricity or natural gas for their own use; (b) c. 6 the words "compressed" or "compressed" shall be deleted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 11 the words "mime' shall be replaced by "mita'; (b) paragraph 13 is amended as follows: The authorised warehousekeeper from whose tax warehouse excise goods placed under the export procedure are exported is liable for the excise duty payable for the goods exported referred to in the single administrative document, except where, pursuant to the provisions of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447 of 24 November 2015 laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Union Customs Code (OJ L 343/558 of 29 December 2015).), hereinafter referred to as "the Implementing Regulation (EU)', the customs office of exit has informed the customs office of export or the proof provided under art. Paragraph 4 of that Regulation is sufficient. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73c. 5 is amended as follows: Where excise goods are intended for export, the customs authorities shall send the electronic administrative document to the competent authorities of the Member State in which the export declaration is lodged to the customs office of export as defined in art. 1, t. 16 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 of 28 July 2015 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for certain provisions of the Union Customs Code (OJ L 343/1 of 29 December 2015).), hereinafter referred to as the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73z para. 1 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in art. 73a, para. 1, t. 3 The competent customs office shall complete an export message on the basis of the certification by the customs office of exit referred to in art. 329 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447, or of the office certifying that excise goods have left the customs territory of the Union. 8. In Chapter 5, the name of Section II is hereby amended as follows: 9. Article 82 is amended as follows: Art. 82. (1) When placing goods under a customs procedure, the full amount of the excise duty due shall be secured by a deposit in cash or by a bank guarantee under the customs legislation, in order to secure customs duties. (2) In the case of transit of goods, the excise duty shall be secured in the amount and order of guaranteeing customs duties. (3) The person authorised to open and manage customs storage facilities (warehousekeeper) within the meaning of customs legislation shall be jointly responsible with the depositor of the goods in the warehouse for the excise duty due upon departure from the customs procedure during their storage in the warehouse, as well as for the diversion of the goods from temporary storage. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 93. 10 is amended "Alinea" 6 shall not apply to excise goods under art. 33, para. 1, t. 2 carried on the territory of the country under suspension of excise duty or under customs procedure. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5 t. 2 is "2." under customs supervision within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 in relation to customs formalities; 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 123. 7 is amended The customs authorities of the Member States shall ensure that the customs authorities of the Member States and the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union and of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the customs territory of the Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the territory of the Union, of the other part, of the Union, of the other part, of the territory of the Union, of the other part, of the Republic of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the Republic of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the Republic of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123b al. 3 is amended as follows: In the case of waste referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 4 shall be subject to customs supervision within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 in respect of the completion of customs formalities or under suspension of excise duty or held or transported by the persons referred to in Article 4. 12, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u159	I am opening the debate on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 94 and supported by the Commission § 89, which becomes § 95. Is there a wish to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 94 and the text which the Commission has supported by the importer of § 89, which shall become § 95. Voting mode. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u160	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova for the creation of a new § 89a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create a new § 96 with the following wording: ...... 96........................................................................ (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this law, persons who consume their own electricity produced by a plant with a total installed power exceeding 5 MW and do not have a registration under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, submit a request for registration under art. 57b, para. 1 of the same law. (2) Until the entry into force of the instrument of issue of the registration certificate or of the refusal to issue it, the persons referred to in para. 1 continue their activities and have all the rights and obligations of registered persons under the Law on excises and tax warehouses. (3) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, persons who have received a certificate of registration under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses for carrying out activities with compressed natural gas, shall be re-registered under art. 57a, para. 1, t. 2 of the same law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 90, which shall become § 97: "The Bible says: The Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 4 t. The words "myths' shall be replaced by "myths'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "non-members' is replaced by "non-members'; (b) in para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (c) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the case of entry into the territory of the country, goods shall be temporarily stored or placed in a free zone or under customs operations of customs storage, inward processing, temporary import with full exemption from import duties, external transit, imports shall be deemed to have been made where the goods cease to be under the relevant procedure within the territory of the country. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 all over the world, the words............................................................................................... 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1, t. 1 the words............................................................................................................ 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. the words "myths' are replaced by "myths'; (b) c. 17 the word "congregations' is replaced by "mita'; (c) c. 18 the words............................................................................................................ 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 all over the words the customs duties shall be replaced by the customs duties; (b) in para. 3 the words "opening and management of a warehouse under customs control (warehousekeeper) " shall be replaced by the use of customs storage facilities. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words the customs duties shall be replaced by the import duties. (b) in para. 3 the words "mix duties' shall be replaced by "Importable duties'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the 9. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) c. 36 words are deleted and the word "not applicable" shall be replaced by "non-residentials"; (b) c. 38 the words "mix duties' shall be replaced by "mita'; (c) c. 63 the words "Mitanica' shall be replaced by "Mita'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 91, which shall become § 98. Paragraphs 92 and 93 of the importing Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes renumbering of the paragraphs, respectively paragraphs 99 and 100. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 94, which shall become § 101: .............................................................................. The Industrial Design Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 5 the words supplied to the customs office of destination shall be replaced by placing under the customs procedure or for the customs procedure of the customs office of destination. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63a, para. 4 the words supplied to the customs office of destination shall be replaced by placing under the customs procedure or for the customs procedure of the customs office of destination. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 95, which shall become § 102: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on trade marks and geographical indications (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 5 the words supplied to the customs office of destination shall be replaced by placing under the customs procedure or for the customs procedure of the customs office of destination. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79a, para. 4 the words supplied to the customs office of destination shall be replaced by placing under the customs procedure or for the customs procedure of the customs office of destination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u161	Let's get to it, because a lot of texts have gone by. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of importer supported by the Commission for the creation of a new § 96; § 90, which becomes § 97; the text of importer supported by the Commission for § 91, which becomes § 98; § 92, which becomes § 99; § 93, which becomes § 100; § 94, which becomes § 101; and the text of § 95, which becomes § 102. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u162	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 96, which shall become § 103; § 97; § 98; § 99, § 100; § 101; § 102; § 103; § 104; § 105; respectively, which shall become paragraphs 103 to 112. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 106, but proposes to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 94. Paragraph 107. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 107 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u163	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of an importer supported by the Commission under § 96, which shall become § 103; § 106, which shall be as a new § 94; up to § 107. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been adopted and with this point third of our weekly programme. Moving on to point four: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. There is a report from the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Stoyanova, I see you're done with the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u164	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to allow Mr. Bekir to be admitted to the Chamber to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Vanya Doneva, Chairman of the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Genko Nikolov, Expert in the Commission for Public Supervision of the Registered Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u165	Please vote on admission by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. Please, Quaestors, invite the experts to take their assigned seats. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u166	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. At a meeting held on 23 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors, the Institute of Graduated Accountants, the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Mr. Ananiev. The Independent Financial Audit Bill achieves harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation regulating the activity of registered auditors in the implementation of financial audit and audit services, with the requirements resulting from Directive 2006/43/EU on the statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts as amended by Directive 2014/56/EU and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 on specific requirements for statutory audit in public-interest undertakings. The proposal for the adoption of a new law is dictated by the fact that the structure of the current Law is not in line with fullness with the specifics of the legal matter it regulates. The structure of the present further is complicated by 19 amendments and additions for the period since the promulgation of the Law of 2001. The Bill does not provide for requirements that have a direct impact on the size of the cost base for business and budget. The new law aims to strengthen investor protection by: 1. strengthening the public oversight of the activities of the registered auditors and increasing its independence; 2. increasing the role of audit committees in public-interest enterprises to achieve a high quality of statutory audit by further reporting to the audit committee and improving communication with the registered auditor; 3. ensuring to a higher extent the independence of registered auditors by prohibiting the provision of certain services outside the audit of clients; 4. establishment of a maximum duration of the audit commitment in respect of an audited entity of public interest; 5. monitoring by the supervisory authority of the development of the audit services market in particular with regard to the risks arising from the high market concentration. In order to improve compliance with the requirements of Directive 2014/56/EU and to introduce measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, new provisions on the application of supervisory measures and the imposition of administrative cash penalties for registered auditors shall be laid down. The supervisory measures are primarily aimed at assessing the quality of the activity of registered auditors, ensuring the publicity of detected infringements by registered auditors, as well as temporary withdrawal or deprivation of the right to carry out audit activities. It is also envisaged to notify a body supervising the activities of a public-interest undertaking to impose a ban on a member of its management body for a period of up to three years to exercise its functions. The draft comprehensively lists administrative infringements for which a fine or a penalty of up to 10 per cent is imposed from the revenue of the registered auditor. In order to reduce the risks to the independence of auditors of undertakings of public interest, the project shall provide for additional measures, together with the requirements of the Regulation, by setting out the following: 1. allows under certain conditions the provision of tax advice to the audited entity by the registered auditor; 2. minimum duration of the statutory audit contract of one year; 3. a maximum period for an audit firm for the audit of an undertaking of public interest up to 7 years as for the audit auditor responsible on behalf of an audit firm, the maximum period shall be 4 years; 4. restrictions on the revenues from services, outside the audit, of the audited entity of the public interest, as well as the share of the revenue from that undertaking in the total amount of the audit revenue for the registered auditor; 5. requirements for reporting detected irregularities in the activity of the audited entity. The bill also provides requirements for the members and composition of the audit committees. The Law proposes amendments to the Accounting Act relating to the publication of annual financial statements, as well as narrowing the scope of undertakings of public interest, excluding small enterprises, water operators in order to reduce the administrative burden. The Bill provides for amendments and additions to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code and the Credit Institutions Act introducing an obligation with regard to the undertakings concerned in the public interest for joint audit of their annual financial statements by two audit firms. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.............................. 16 MPs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Independent Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We are moving on to the next report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Peter Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u168	♪ I can't believe under the Independent Financial Audit Act, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 29 June 2016, examined and discussed the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister and Natalia Chernjeeva Head of Department in the Directorate of Tax Policy; by the Financial Supervision Commission of Veselina Mandadjieva The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Karaivanova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed Draft is to achieve harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation regulating the activity of registered auditors with the requirements resulting from Directives 2006/43/EU and 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The adoption of a new law and the annulment of the current law is also required by the fact that the structure of the latter is not in line with the specifics of the legal matter it regulates. Complications come from the 19 amendments and additions of the law in the period 2001 - 2015. The new law aims to strengthen investor protection by: - strengthening the public oversight of the activities of registered auditors by increasing their independence by granting adequate powers; - increasing the role of audit committees in public-interest enterprises to achieve high quality; - ensuring to a higher extent the independence of registered auditors by prohibiting the provision of certain services outside the audit of audit clients; - the establishment of a maximum duration of the audit commitment in respect of an audited undertaking; - monitoring by the supervisory authority the development of the audit services market in particular with regard to the risks arising from the high market concentration. In order to synchronise provisions, amendments and additions to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code, the Accounting Act and 11 other laws are proposed. According to the importer, there are no requirements introduced with the Bill that will have a direct impact on the size of the costs of the business and the budget of the State. In its opinion, the Bulgarian National Bank disagrees with the proposed content of Articles 45, 51, 65 and 107 of the Draft Law, which is considered to be contrary to Regulation (EU) 537/2014, Directive 2014/56/EU and Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. As a participant in the Working Group on the draft new Independent Financial Audit Bill, the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors fully supports the Bill. The Institute of Graduated Accountants (IDEC) supports in principle the proposed Draft and expresses the following considerations: the withdrawal of delegated functions of the IDEC should be done by law and not by the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. In its opinion, the Financial Supervision Commission (FSC) makes a number of notes and proposals and raises questions: in the event of the auditors' disagreement with how such a situation will be regulated and what are the consequences for auditors and audited persons; it is unacceptable for auditors who have certified false accounts to re-certify accounts of public undertakings; the criteria for coordinating the selection of auditors should be regulated by the law rather than determined by the FSC; the status of the Guarantee Fund, which under the current legislation is subject to audit by the The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria expressed disagreement with increasing the costs of the business for audit certifications. In the subsequent discussion the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov asked questions about the differences between the institutions concerned. Vanya Doneva answered the questions asked by expressing that the draft Law was in the public interest. After the end of the discussion and voting with 12 Members of Parliament...... 3 Members of Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The next report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Hubenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u170	♪ I can't believe on an independent financial audit bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. At its meeting on 22 June 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Independent Financial Audit Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Feyzi Bekir Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Natalia Cherneva Head of Department in the same Directorate; from the Commission for Public Supervision: Mrs. Vanya Doneva Chairman, and from the Institute of Graduated Accountants (IDES): Mr. Velin Filipov Vice-President. The draft new Act on Independent Financial Audit aims to synchronise the Bulgarian legislation governing the activity of registered auditors in the implementation of financial audit, with the requirements of Directive 2014/56/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2006/43/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on the statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In addition, the Bill also transposes certain requirements of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning the content of the audit report on the results of the statutory audit. The need for the adoption of the abovementioned law is due to the fact that the structure of the current law is not entirely in line with the specifics it regulates. The European legislation relating to this Draft Law on mandatory financial audit is aimed at ensuring better investor protection by: strengthening public oversight of registered auditors by increasing the independence of public oversight bodies of the European Union; strengthening the role of audit committees in undertakings of public interest; ensuring greater independence of registered auditors; establishing a maximum duration of audit commitment in undertakings of public interest; ensuring supervision by the supervisory authority of the development of the audit services market. The draft law provides for additional texts relating to the scope of the financial audit, as well as the responsibilities of the statutory auditors and the management of the audited undertakings. In relation to the provisions of Directive 2014/56/EU, the Commission for the Public Supervision of Registered Auditors shall be responsible for: the supervision of the acquisition of the right to exercise activities as a registered auditor, the registration of auditors, including auditors from other EU Member States, and third countries; the adoption and compliance with standards of professional ethics, internal quality control in the activities of registered auditors and the carrying out of financial audit and related services; the further professional development of auditors. Once again, in relation to the abovementioned Directive and in order to introduce implementing measures under Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, provisions on the application of supervisory measures and the imposition of administrative penalties for registered auditors are proposed by the Bill. The supervisory measures aim by administratively forcing the termination and removal of deficiencies and discrepancies detected in inspections and investigations in the activities of registered auditors, including by temporary withdrawal or deprivation of the right to carry out audit activities, publicity of detected infringements, etc. It should be borne in mind that registered auditors are legally entrusted with the function of carrying out mandatory financial audit of undertakings of public interest in order to achieve greater public confidence in the annual and consolidated financial statements of those undertakings. In this context, the Bill introduces additional provisions governing the mandatory financial audit of the financial statements of those undertakings, directly applying the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. They shall focus on the content of the audit report, additional reports to the competent authority and/or its audit committee, the content of the transparency report, as well as additional information provided to the Commission for public oversight of registered users. In addition, in order to reduce the risks to the independence of auditors of undertakings in the public interest, the project provides for additional measures, along with the requirements of the Regulation, limiting the provision of other services to audit clients and allowing only the provision of tax advice, maximum time limits for the rotation of auditors, limits on revenue from those customers, as well as requirements for reporting irregularities. Last but not least, amendments and additions to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code and the Credit Institutions Act are envisaged to introduce an obligation with regard to the undertakings concerned in the public interest for joint audit of their annual financial statements by two audit firms. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed to the National Assembly by 10 votes for the Council and 1 vote for the Council of Ministers to adopt an independent financial audit bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. The next report is from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u172	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 08 June 2016 examined the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The draft new Independent Audit Act was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance. It shall inform that it aims to harmonise the legal framework governing the activity of registered auditors in carrying out financial audit and audit services with the requirements arising from European Union law. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill provide for amendments and additions to the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code and the Credit Institutions Act, which introduce an obligation to carry out a joint audit of the annual financial statements of the undertakings concerned in the public interest by two audit firms. In carrying out a joint audit, companies will share statutory audit activities and prepare a joint report. Importers believe that the introduction of the joint audit model will achieve a higher guarantee of the auditor's independence, stimulate competitiveness and market dynamics, and increase the quality of the audit carried out. With the proposed change in art. 187 of the Social Security Code, the annual financial statements of pension insurance companies and pension funds they manage will be subject to compulsory financial audit carried out jointly by two audit firms which are registered auditors. It is also envisaged the introduction of a new provision under which pension insurance companies will elect auditors after prior coordination of the choice with the Financial Supervision Commission, which will also adopt the criteria for the coordination of that choice. In the course of the discussion, the question was raised about the future effect of adopting the model of joint financial audit with regard to pension insurance companies and their funds. It was argued that the assessment of this model was contradictory and that its introduction could not guarantee neither greater independence of audit nor a reduction in the risk of market collapse due to high concentration of services. According to the representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies, the obligation to carry out a joint audit by two audit firms will result in additional costs for pensioners. Another issue that has been raised concerns the need for the criteria for selecting an auditor of pension insurance companies to be agreed in advance with the Financial Supervision Commission and whether this will not lead to an additional administrative and financial burden for companies. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to support the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602 01 28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. This was the last report on the draft law under consideration. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, as a representative of the Council of Ministers and on behalf of the importer, you have the right to take part in the presentation of the bill under consideration. Do you have a wish on behalf of the importer? There are two minutes until the end of the working plenary day, and then, of course, we proceed with committees. I don't understand, Mr. Deputy Minister, would you care to take a stand? You don't want to. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u174	Colleagues, I'm gonna take you a minute because it's important and I don't want this bill to go through just like that at the end of the day. I will support it because the profession really needs this new bill. There is a text in it that is disturbing and for which I will not vote at second reading. These are the so-called joint audits of banks, insurance and pension companies. Joint audits do not mean parallel audits. Joint audits mean that two audit firms enter, divide their work and each one looks at his parameter. This, in my opinion, does not in any way lead to an increase in the quality of the work, and ultimately, the meaning of this Law is to increase the quality of the audit. This means that you can have teams of different quality, different experts. This means that then there may be a clash between the two teams who is responsible for what. In this case, you don't have a procedure to clear these collisions. This thing is not necessarily, the directive gives it an option and we, if we want to, accept it or not accept it. It is no coincidence that the opinion of both the Central Bank and the Institute of Graduated Accountants is strongly opposed to this for one simple reason that it does not lead to an increase in the quality of the audit. Please, at second reading, let's rethink this text because it's really not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-13.u175	Anyone for a line? I won't. Are there any other MPs willing to take the floor? I see you're raising your hand, Mr. Ananiev, but the time is now 14:00, so I'm about to close the session. Once there's a debate, we'll continue tomorrow. The next regular plenary session on 14 July 2016, Thursday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
