ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. There is no jurisdiction. Next trial at 9:15. Found at 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u2	Dear colleagues, please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear MPs, for several days our country has lived under the sign of the tragedy in Hitrino. Let us once again express with a minute's silence our empathy for the victims, for the victims, and declare to all citizens of Hitrino that they are not alone in this not only theirs but also a national tragedy. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 14 December to 16 December this year. 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1 February 2010. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. 5. Project for a decision to reduce the days of the Christmas vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 Two projects. With importers: Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev is the first project. The second draft decision on Christmas vacation and the work of the National Assembly in December 2016 and January 2017 is with importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Gemma Grozdanova, Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. 6. Second vote on the Anti-Terrorism Bill. 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, which continued last week. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. 11. First vote on Draft Laws for amendment and supplement of the Law on Structure of the Area. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. 13. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. 14. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. 15. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with registration index RD 50 127 of 26 September 2016. 16. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 18. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 148 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 12. Program accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Houses.. three proposals. The first is Mr. Velizar Enchev for inclusion in the weekly program of the Law on Political Parties. Mr. Enchev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! Just two years ago, without two months, I submitted a proposal for the change in the Law on Political Parties, which states that the state subsidy for parties who received more than 1% in parliamentary elections will be reduced by 11 BGN. It's as much as it is right now at 5 BGN. Last Wednesday, you were so good to vote on this item on the agenda to enter the weekly agenda of parliament, but, unfortunately, on Friday, Parliament's agenda did not allow it to be considered. I believe and hope that you will again support this proposal to include an item on the agenda. In advance, I say that immediately after this vote, if you, of course, support the inclusion of the item on the agenda, my proposal for a change in the Law on Political Parties, I would ask for a procedure with a proposal to be the first item on tomorrow's Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u4	I believe that you have made the second proposal as a point first to include this Bill. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 125 MPs: 53, against 25, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who proposes to include a hearing on the grounds of art. 110 of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's Rules on Government policy on the migrant crisis, as well as the government's position on the subject at the European Council meeting on 16 December 2016. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, among the topics that are constantly focusing on themselves both in Bulgaria and in Europe are the migrant crisis and, accordingly, the actions of the countries to minimize the risks and limit the adverse effects of refugee flows. This is a subject that may remain on the second floor because of various events in the different countries - catastrophes, disasters, political crises, but a topic that does not come off the current agenda. This has been the case for at least four years and will certainly be an up-to-date topic for at least four years. We have made a proposal for a hearing of the Prime Minister, and by order of the Rules, which allows for questioning and expression of attitude, that is, a basis for a debate in the National Assembly on the subject of the migrant crisis. There are various reasons that suggest a hearing of the Prime Minister, but among the most important is the forthcoming meeting and respectively an informal meeting of the European Council tomorrow and Friday in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, among the vital topics for Bulgaria are: It is enough to mention the individual issues in these subjects, and you will certainly understand, I hope, and support our request for a hearing with the Prime Minister. On the topic of migration, for example, the support for member states from the front line; consideration of the capacity of the European Border and Coast Guard; review of the implementation of the arrangements with Turkey. On this topic, a review of the implementation of the Global Strategy and the Action Plan of the European Union in the field of defence. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And, of course, on the topic of... relations, for example, is the subject of sanctions against Russia. All this gives us reason to hope for support and listen accordingly to the position of Bulgaria, with which the Bulgarian Prime Minister will participate in this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u6	We are voting on this proposal, fellow Members. They voted 141 MPs: 63, against 11, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I will address colleagues from GERB's Parliamentary Group because in the other parliamentary groups this proposal has support, in the hope of, of course, supporting the proposal, however fragile that hope may be, but it is worth the effort. Allow me to add at least two more reasons, ladies and gentlemen, in my desire to persuade you of the need for support. We have one year from the meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security in November 2015 with at least eight recommendations in the field of the necessary actions related to limiting the refugee flow. At least one year after that, it is nice to hear what of this plan is being implemented, and in light of what is to be seen in Brussels. Secondly, in a period when we have a transition from a president to a newly elected president, a resigned government, coming early elections, it is good at least the National Assembly on this subject to give a sign that it understands the importance not for us as an institution, but for the country and for the people of the country what we are undertaking to respond to refugee pressure and flow. That is why I think it is nice to listen to the Prime Minister, and at least in this period of time of uncertainty and somewhat instability to signal that there is an institution in the face of the National Assembly, which understands the importance and makes an effort to find the relevant actions. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u8	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u9	They voted 146 MPs: 69, against 32, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal for inclusion as a item on the agenda is the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Code, No 654-01-85, submitted by Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. The proposal for inclusion was made by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On several occasions, we suggest that this item be placed on the agenda and you support it. It is really being included, but there is not enough time to look at it anyway. You know that such changes to the Insurance Code, in tax laws, are good to do at the end of the year, so that there is clarity and predictability for people next year. So once again we offer the point. It is important, it concerns the so-called "seasonal responsibility." As before, if such changes are not accepted, probably many seasonal vehicles will be automatically deregistered by the DMV system and then people will likely go to talk on the ground and so on to recover their registration by making the new............................. for the new season. We want to avoid this, we want to avoid creating such additional difficulties for people. Let the electronization of the system work to their advantage, not to their detriment. Please, let us once again consider and support this proposal. The bill is extremely short and I do not believe it will take us more than 20 minutes. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you, in terms of possibly supported inclusion of the point, to make it point one for Thursday so that we can finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. We are voting on the proposal for inclusion in the Programme. Vote 131 MPs: 114, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to be the first item in our Programme for Thursday. They voted 104 MPs: 61, Against 2, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote please, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u12	I'm asking for a re-vote, Mr. Chairman. There are colleagues who have failed to vote. Very quickly, somehow, the voting time is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u13	We are revisiting the proposal that the point be first on Thursday. They voted 115 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 7 to 13 December 2016: - on 7 December 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act and related articles was adopted. The importer is Ivan Stankov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is leading, and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is accompanying; - on 8 December 2016 was received a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act with importer, the People's Representative Martin Ivanov, assigned to the Committee on Environment and Water, and the Committee on Energy; - on 9 December 2016 a bill for the old capitals of Bulgaria was introduced, with importer Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Culture and Media, the accompanying committees, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Budget and Finance; - on 12 December 2016 was received Project for a decision to reduce the days of the Christmas holidays of the National Assembly for 2016 with importers Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - on 13 December 2016 a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with an importer of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government; - on 13 December 2016 the Project for a Decision for the Christmas vacation and the work of the National Assembly in December 2016 and January 2017. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs; - on 12 December 2016 in the National Assembly a request was made by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, No 627-00-6 to give permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Iliya Yankov Iliev. The same was done in pre-trial proceedings No 159 of 2015 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office; in the following case with prosecutor's file No 7035 of 2015 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, Section I for crimes committed under art. 167, para. 3; proposal first, in relation to art. 26, para. 1 and para. 20; second link to para. 1 of the Penal Code, and under art. 167, para. 2, proposal 1 and proposal 2 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 12 December 2016, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Representative Iliya Yankov Iliev of the request and the opportunity to meet him and the attached materials. The National Assembly will decide on the request by the Prosecutor General, subject to the time limit laid down in art. 134, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, unless written consent has been given by the National Representative by then. On 7 December 2016, by No 656-24-3 the National Assembly received opinions from the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 and a Report on the amendment of the budget of the State Social Security for 2015. By letter the materials are provided to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. They are also available electronically on the website of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Bulgaria. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on indexes of turnover in the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles in October 2016, indexes of industrial production in October 2016, indexes of construction production in October 2016 and indices of consumer prices in November 2016. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms The parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, sharing once again its devastating sadness of the tragedy in the village of Hitrino, offers the most heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the fallen. We feel genuinely empathetic, we feel human solidarity with the drama of the victims and their loved ones in connection with the tragic incident in the early morning of December 10, 2016. At such times, we humans realize most clearly that humanity is not just a virtue, but also our duty. The incident in Hitrino is a disaster with enormous damage and a true human tragedy on the scale of humanitarian disaster. Everything that has been built with a lot of love and effort for years has collapsed in just a few minutes. The world's perception of the victims and witnesses of this unprecedented tragedy can no longer be the same. Life for them now has other meaning and other value. Our deep inner conviction reminds us that sometimes life relentlessly brings us to severe trials like those of King Kaloyan, Biser, Miziya, Gorni Lom, Asparuhovo, and now Hitrino. It is our duty to read these signs and learn these sad life lessons in the hope that they will never happen again. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done it on the spot, but now from the parliamentary stand we call on everyone to manifest the virtues preached by the various religious communities and again all together "the whole Bulgarian society, united, to respond to this fatal incident of man-loving, mercy, warm welfare and assistance to the victims. In front of the sinister face of tragedy, we are all equal and equally responsible to seek and find the best solutions for our security and the preservation of the lives of the victims. Outside the purely human dimension, this tragedy has given us several more principled lessons such as: the right to protect each person; the advantage of saving human life above all else; the publicity of information about the risks of disasters and an assessment of the activities of the authorities of the executive for disaster protection. Here is the place to mark the joint efforts of local, state authorities, specialized institutions, firefighters, police, emergency services teams, civil organisations. The selfless actions of all these structures led by the National Crisis Headquarters make it possible to overcome this crisis. Of course, the expectations of the victims are for even greater speed and precision of actions, as well as for better coordination of the competent institutions. I very much hope that this will happen, too, so that the people of Hitrino can restore the hope of normalizing their existence that, despite everything, life continues, that they are not alone, that together we are determined to overcome the consequences. We deeply mourn the victims and do everything in our power to bring back the normal way of life to Hitrino. In this order of thought, I call on all state institutions to make the most of their capacity and respond adequately to the challenges posed by this ridiculous incident. In order to protect the justice and democratic choice of the state, legitimate authorities must find the guilty and also seek the strictest responsibility. Provoked by incorrect messages and speeches in the media space, as a serious political force, we appeal to all political parties and speakers not to allow populist and imprecise speeches to use this case with self-interest and purely political purposes. This is an unacceptable, ugly game of human tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps this is the place to offer our condolences to the families and relatives of those who died in the terrorist attacks in Besiktash, Istanbul. We strongly condemn this barbaric act that took the lives of 44 innocent policemen and civilians. We sincerely believe that no act of violence directed against humanity can be justified. Despite its growing scale around the world, terrorism is doomed to lose against the power of our human values. The undisputed conclusion we make these days is that life is the highest good and all of us are the people of the civilized world, we must respect and cherish His Majesty Life above all else! We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms call for humility in the face of the sinister tragedy that has befallen Hitrino. Instead of the easier union in denial, this time let's be insulted in creation! Together, give hope and trust for a better life. Let us pray once again for those who have died and give hope and solidarity to those who have suffered. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u15	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. I believe that there is no MP who does not join this declaration. We continue with the item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGAL AID. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill is under No 602-01-63 and was submitted on 31 October 2016. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to the President of the Commission, National Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before submitting the report, I request a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules concerning the Deputy Minister of Justice Ms. Petya Tyankova and Mrs. Elena Cherneva, Chairman of the National Legal Aid Bureau.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u17	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm putting the tolerance procedure to the vote. Voting mode. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 6. Please invite the guests to plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October. In accordance with The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister, and Mrs. Elena Cherneva, Chairman of the National Bureau for Legal Aid. The bill was presented by Mrs Zaharieva, who noted that it aims to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the legal aid system, as well as to ensure access to legal aid to a wider range of persons from vulnerable social groups. The draft law provides for the possibility for citizens who have incomes below the poverty line in the country to be able to receive legal assistance for consultations in both the general order for the provision of legal assistance by the National Legal Aid Bureau and from newly established, permanent regional legal aid centres to the relevant legal colleges. There is also the possibility of providing legal advice to anyone interested through a newly created National Legal Aid Phone to the National Legal Aid Bureau, through which legal assistance will be provided by lawyers registered at the National Legal Aid Office. The bill provides for uniformity of criteria for the provision of legal assistance by the different authorities in the system and extension of the circle of persons entitled to such assistance, including the persons under art. 143 of the Family Code and those in the case of applications for maintenance under the Convention on International Child Support Recovery and other family members. The costs of providing legal aid under the National Legal Aid Phone and the Regional Consultation Centres are provided for and included in the established budget of the National Legal Aid Bureau for 2016. In response to the question asked by the National Representative Petar Slavov, Mrs. Zaharieva replied that in the Final Rules the bill contains proposals aimed at uniformising the implementation of the Law on the Judiciary with regard to the elected jurors before its entry into force. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Law No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on Legal Aid No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u19	We will now hear the report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 23 November 2016, examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by Ms. Petya Tyankova Deputy Minister of Justice and Mrs. Elena Cherneva Chairman of the National Legal Aid Office. The bill presented Mrs Tiankova. According to importers, the proposed Bill aims to improve the legal aid system by bringing the legislation in line with international documents and established in practice sustainable models and legal aid mechanisms. The proposed provisions ensure the implementation of the social function of the Law on Legal Aid by facilitating access and extension of the circle of persons from vulnerable social groups to obtaining legal aid. According to the provisions in force, the right to free legal aid has persons and families who are eligible for monthly aid under Article 3. 9 and 10 of the Rules implementing the Social Assistance Act, as well as persons and families eligible for support with target heating aid for the previous or current heating season. The Bill proposes to extend the scope of the entitled and those who do not meet these conditions, but have incomes in sizes below the country's poverty line. These citizens will be able to receive legal assistance for consultations from both the National Legal Aid Bureau and regional advisory centres, which will be set up with the relevant Bar Associations, which will respond to a public need to meet requests for legal assistance from low-income citizens. The circle of persons entitled to free legal aid includes parents due to the maintenance of underage children within the meaning of art. 143 of the Family Code and applications cases in accordance with the Convention on International Child Support Recovery and Other Family Members, drawn up at The Hague on 23 November 2007. Ms. Cherneva clarified that through the current National Legal Aid Telephone to the National Legal Aid Bureau, the funds for which are from the Bureau's budget, the possibility of providing legal advice to a wider range of persons is extended. The consultations provided shall result in a sharp reduction in procedural representation in the court, resulting in savings in budgetary resources. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u21	Thank you. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in the draft discussion? I don't see any desire. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 602-01-63, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October this year. We vote. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. The next item in our weekly program is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECURRENCE IN THE BENEFICIARY OF THE STATE OF LEGISLATION. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u22	Thank you, Madam President. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union have held that, in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Communities, the Court of Madam President, before I reach the title of the legislative act, I ask for a procedure for admission in respect of Mr. Plamen Georgiev, President of the Commission for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u23	We vote. The votes of 86 MPs were: 83, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the hall. There's a second vote! We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u24	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law for withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired property. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission supports the text of the importer under § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u25	Statements by name and § 1 shall not be made. We vote. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u26	According to § 2 the proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev. On the basis of art. 81, para. The 2rd sentence of the Rules of Procedure has not been discussed and voted on. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 2 after the words "supplied' is added more than "supplied'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the following amendments 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 15 words.............................................................................. 235, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 25 words.............................................................................. 354a, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, According to § 4 a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 words.. 150 000
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u27	Statements under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4? I won't. We are voting on these paragraphs in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u28	The proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs will be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In carrying out the verification under art. 21, para. 2, the organs referred to in art. 13, para. 1 shall be entitled to: 1. require explanations from the person examined and related persons; 2. require information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u29	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Georgiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u30	90 MPs voted: 20, Against 9, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Please vote. 86 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 10. Paragraph 5 on a proposal from the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u31	Under § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov, made in accordance with Article 6. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the MNS, in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The Commission and the directors of the territorial departments may require the insurance disclosure of the insurance secret for the persons examined.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u32	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 by importer, supported by the Commission and edited by the same. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u33	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u34	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 25 against 9, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 6, abstention 4. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u35	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The directors of the territorial departments may require the National Statistical Institute to provide information on the annual financial statements of the legal entities representing statistical secrecy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u36	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 8 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u37	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs from the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the MNS, in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. Six is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The above-mentioned circumstances under para. 1, t. 1-7 should be supported by documents. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u38	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 23, against 18, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 9 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u39	According to § 10 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected. According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u40	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for paragraphs 10 and 11 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 10 and 11 by importer have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u41	According to § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs from the National Assembly is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 2, p. 1 Finally, a comma is placed and a point is added and the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency may refer to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u42	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: 15 against 21, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's support § 12 by importer, which, after its amendment, becomes § 10 in its report. I shall put to the vote § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 11. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u43	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the MNS, in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u44	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 13 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. On a proposal from the Commission, § 13 by importer was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u45	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69, para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The property shall be valued at the time of its acquisition or alienation as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u46	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 11 in the numbering and version of the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u47	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid, made in accordance with Article 15. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u48	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u49	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected. According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u50	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 16 and 17 by importer. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u51	According to § 18 there is a proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid, made in accordance with art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 90th para At least 30 percent of the value of the seized property for the benefit of the State shall be used for social purposes and the terms and conditions shall be determined by a legislative act of the Council of Ministers. Ten per cent of the value of the property forfeited in favour of the State is spent on improving the qualification and stimulating the Commission staff included in the total number of Commission staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u52	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 12 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 81, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u53	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the event of a withdrawal in favour of the State of illegally acquired property, the State shall answer to the victims to the extent of the value of the property forfeited for the damage caused by a crime under art. 22, para. 1 where the property available to the persons responsible for the damage is not sufficient for their recovery. 2. Allinea 4 is canceled. According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs in § 20 points. Two o'clock is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "Accesses" are replaced by "Access, income and sources of funding" are added, after the word "Accession" is added to the acquisition of which a legal source is established and after the word "Access" is added to the acquisition of which a legal source is established. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The 7th number "sixty-five hundred and twenty-five thousand' is replaced by one hundred and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u54	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 14 against 28, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 13 and 14 in the numbering and version of the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, these proposals have also been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u55	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. A proposal from the National Representative Hamid Hamid, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The checks and proceedings initiated, but not completed until the entry into force of this law, shall be completed in the order so far. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 16: .... § In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) in art. 150, para. 1 is created t. 2a: It's 2a. before the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and directors of the territorial departments under the order established by the law;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u56	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the division, the new § 15 in the version of the Commission and § 16 in the numbering and version of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. And these proposals have been adopted unanimously, and with that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of illegally acquired property. Coming up next: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF A LOAN-COMMODATION AND RESTRUCTURING BANK OF 1 FEVRUARY 2010 With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Yordanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u57	Thank you, Madam President. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 1 February 2010, No 602-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. At a regular meeting held on 24 November 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Bill. It was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nankov "Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works." The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works implements a project for the development of municipal infrastructure, financed under the Loan Agreement No 7834-BG..Project for the development of municipal infrastructure.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project is worth 87 million. 449 thousand. 375 euros and the final date for the use of funds is 31 December 2017. The agreement provides 80 percent of the funds for the implementation of the project and the remaining 20 percent is provided by the state budget. The loan part of the project is worth 70 million. EUR, and the share of the state budget is 17 million. 449 thousand. 375 euros. According to the current agreement, the project consists of three components: component 1 (Part A), which provides assistance in the implementation of the Project for research, the design of the dam, the dam "Luda Yana" dam, the dam "Neykovtsi" and the water treatment plants for drinking water to them, as well as the rehabilitation of the dam "Studena" dam and the water treatment plant "Studena" dam "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Studena" dam, "Pernik" dam, building supervision, audit, management, management and training dams designated as a priority for drinking water supply - dam "Plovdivtsi" dam, "Luda Yana" dam and construction and construction plant construction works for the completion of dams, as well as well as the rehabilitation of dam intended priority for drinking dams. At present, the successful implementation of the component for the preparation of regional master plans for water supply and sewerage can be taken into account. The components related to the design and construction of the dams are delayed due to the need to implement and process detailed development plans for sanitary and security zones and the accompanying engineering infrastructure. The implementation of the construction and installation works and the introduction of the sites into operation could not be carried out within the current deadline of the Loan Agreement. The technological time for their real implementation implies an extension of the loan by 24 months - until 31 December 2019. This requires an extension of the implementation period of the project, respectively an extension of the Loan Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development until 31 December 2019. Ratification by law is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 14 votes for the draft budget and finance committee, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for the ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement, a Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure and Development between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1 February 2010, No 602-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u58	Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Local Government and Public Works. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on the Draft Law for the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who presented the bill to the members of the Commission, took part in the committee. The loan agreement was amended by Law of the National Assembly in 2011 and 2014, and the amendments were ratified by Law of the National Assembly. Under the current Agreement, the project consists of three parts: Part A At present, the part for the preparation of regional water and sewerage plans has been successfully completed. There is a lag in the design and construction components of the dams and the dams cannot be met by the deadline. 2017. Therefore, it is proposed and agreed to extend the terms of the Agreement until 31 December. 2019, the 24-month extension is a technologically necessary time for the implementation of the construction and installation works and the introduction of the sites into operation. The proposed changes do not lead to a change in the project development objectives. The amendments to the Loan Agreement do not include changes in the size and financial terms of the loan. Funds will be reassigned to the different categories, with the savings made under the component for the preparation of regional general plans being transferred to the implementation of the construction and installation activities for the completion of the sites, without changing the overall value of the agreement. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the proposed Draft by asking questions related to separate implementation activities of the projects financed under the Agreement. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 13 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u60	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the first vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement. "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1 February 2010, No 602-02-39. Cancel the vote! Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u61	Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u62	Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here In addition they entered: Ayhan Etem, Anton Dolapchiev, Georgi Anastasov, Boyka Marinska, Delyan Dobrev, Gunay Husmen, Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Svilenski, Krasimir Velchev, Ivan Ivanov There's a quorum, moving on. I put to the first vote a bill for the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement.. A project for the development of municipal infrastructure..... between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 119 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow a second vote on the newly adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u64	We are voting on this proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u65	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Amendment of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1 February 2010. A single member. Ratiated the modification of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 1 February 2010, concluded by Exchange of Letters on 19 July and 10 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u66	Speaking for a second vote? I won't. We vote at second reading on the bill. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. The ratification was also adopted in the second vote. Let's continue with: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. We are listening to you, Mrs. Daritkova, with the report of the Committee on Health for a first vote in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 602-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2016. At its regular meeting on 27 September 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Bill. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health, Dr. Petar Moskov, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, of patient and non-governmental organizations. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov. He introduced the members of the committee to the objectives of proposed legislative changes which regulate the professional development of healthcare professionals. It will be reflected in the qualification levels set out in the qualification framework adopted by the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals (BASP). Qualification levels will certify acquired knowledge, skills and competences acquired within the framework of continued medical training and/or acquired specialty in the health system for a period of five years. The quality of healthcare is key to ensuring a high level of protection of people's health and safety and trust in the system. In this regard, the Bill provides for the introduction of an obligation for BAPRG members to increase their professional qualifications by continuing medical training. The bill proposes the clarification of the concept of good medical practice in the field of health care. The current bill proposes the word organizations "Bulgarian Medical Union," the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals to exercise control over the ongoing medical training. However, it is important to note that the results of continued training are not linked to professional development. No funds from the state budget are needed for the implementation of the measures proposed by the Bill. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organisation of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals does not contain provisions introducing EU acts in the domestic legislation of the country. In the written opinions of the Bulgarian Medical Union, Bulgarian Dental Union, Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals is expressed support for the bill. During the discussion Ms. Milka Vasileva, Chairman of the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals, pointed out that one of the motivating factors for the stay of health professionals in the national healthcare system is precisely the possibility of professional improvement. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out, in the event of results: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 602-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The debate is open. Are there any willing to take part in this bill? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u69	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in view of the lack of proposals for amendments and additions to the Bill in its discussion at the first vote, I propose that it be subject to a second vote in this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u70	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Report for the second reading of the entire Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u71	THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals (prom., SG...) ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it after the words their profession is added their professional development. 2. The creation of para. 2: The aim of the professional development of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals is to maintain, increase and expand the theoretical knowledge and practical skills needed to provide quality health care. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the word "practica' is replaced by "health care practice'. 2. A t is created. 7a: 7a. adopt a Qualification Framework for the professional development of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, consisting of qualification levels; § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, p. 3 the words "Practica' for "supplied' shall be replaced by "medical practice' in the case of "health care'. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word "Practica" "Practica" shall be added to the health care department." 2. A t is created. 5. It's five o'clock. increase their professional qualifications through continuing medical training. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "foreseen" shall be added to this law and shall be added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word "Practica" "Practica" shall be added to the health care department." § 6. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 4. "4." The level of professional development of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals which reflect the knowledge, skills and competences acquired within the course of continued medical training and/or specialty in the healthcare system for a period of five years. Final provision § 7. In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1 the words "is the right of all' shall be replaced by "the right of all' shall be held for "the right of all'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words supplied and supplied are replaced by supplied, registered and controlled. (b) paragraph 4 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u72	Statements about a second vote on the Bill? I won't. I'm putting the reported bill to the second vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Next item: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS RELATED TO THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION AROUND THE COLLATERAL AND NEW PRESSURES. The first project is of the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev and will be proposed by Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I apologize for the delay I just took the opportunity to get acquainted with the second proposal after ours, which is about the same direction. Colleagues, the two proposals are clear. We really propose that Christmas vacation be reduced to the one written in the Rules, I think, with very clear motives. There are a lot of bills to look at in plenary, a lot of work to do in committees. Only the Legal Committee in the next 7 days has four meetings, which means new bills will be ready for plenary. So obviously, there remains an extremely short period of action in this Parliament, and it seems to us that the vacation will be cut short and that it can work in the last days of this Parliament effectively, that we finish all that we have started so that it will not be lost. You know very well that bills adopted on the first vote in committee or in plenary, if they are not completed, a subsequent National Assembly has no commitment to complete them, but must develop the entire procedure from the very beginning. So our proposal is for the vacation to be reduced by one week and not to be until 10 January 2017, but even on 4 January 2017, Wednesday, to have a plenary session and we to be on the line and to work, I hope, effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The second draft decision is with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Gemma Grozdanova, Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva and will be proposed by Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are proposing a draft decision that I think will be much more useful for the work that we need to carry out as MPs. There are bills that are currently about to be viewed in plenary at first reading. It is better to be watched this week, next week to hold an emergency meeting on Tuesday. You know that under Wednesday's Rules, we already have to go on Christmas break and we propose to work on both Wednesday and Thursday, with which bills can be adopted prepared for viewing in plenary at first reading. The holiday will be until 6 January 2017 and on 9 and 10 January 2017 the committees will be able to consider priority bills between first and second readings and on 11 January 2017 to actually have a programme to be filled with content and to be able to watch bills that are for second reading. I think this will be much more sensible, much more productive. In fact, for the proposal that has been made by MPs before me, I can tell them that this will be much more productive at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u77	Thank you, Madam President. I will make a very brief statement on the subject, because obviously, when such a topic is being discussed, populism takes a peak and, above all, hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u78	You're the first to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u79	I would only turn to Mr. Slavov, I have nothing against your proposal, but it was surprising to me when I saw Mr. Metodi Andreev inside, in your proposal. And I'll tell you why. When at the end of September he took two weeks off to pick his grapes, then he wasn't a populist, was he? From the 25th, 26th to the end of September he had homework as a prominent landowner to pick grapes and make wine. And we worked here! Now that it's obviously not the agricultural season and there's nothing to do, the man wants to work. Yeah, he's got some catching up to do. So reform your proposal, the three of you, and most of all, because it has to catch up, to work in the beginning of January, and we, because then we worked a little too hard, will start working as is our group's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u80	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev. [[Audience in BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u81	I don't know, my name was mentioned here and I went to pick my grapes. Look, like any normal person, I have homework to do. The truth is that the question is not properly raised. The point is that all the people in this country are going to work after January 2nd. They can different ways of not going to work. They can go on unpaid leave, they can go on paid leave, but since there is no such activity in the National Assembly, there is no possibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u82	And on what grounds do you propose this?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u83	...I, with my colleagues, offer you exactly what we have proposed to be like other people. Otherwise, everyone has problems, they solve them the way they can. Besides, there's something else I need to tell you. If you do a check in this National Assembly, you will see that I have no more than 3 days off on a business trip. There are people here who have not returned to the National Assembly for 15 days. Where do these people go? Do you think that by going abroad, they are constantly taking care of people's affairs? Flower, at least you know what this is about! So the truth is that if we do not accept it in this way as we have proposed it, it means that we are more than all other Bulgarian citizens, that we are above them, that we are what we should not be, that we are only seemingly their messengers in this Parliament, and otherwise we do what we want. So I think one has nothing to do with the other. Everyone has a personal way of solving their problems. We offer something that is useful to the entire parliament and from there to our voters. I don't see why we have to point out here what I was doing. I've done this in my own group of regulations that's allowed. I didn't break the rules, nor did I break anything to get you to pull me out in front of braces. And I repeat, our request is absolutely legal and normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u84	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u85	Methods, first of all, I'm not Tsvetan, I'm Tsvetomir Mihov. In at least two years as coworkers, we could have known each other's names! I won't talk nonsense, I will only say two figures: from 26 September to 3 October Svilen Andreev was on agricultural work. You got some catching up to do, mate. The month of January you start in the gym and so... Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u86	Guys, are there any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u87	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Madam President! I'm going to try to be constructive, although the dialogue was weird for me earlier. There have been reproaches from members of the same parliamentary group and there has been some reproach towards me that I have not exercised control over a member of another parliamentary group. Rather, I think maybe the line should have been to Mr. Tsvetanov and not so much to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u88	Would you take the substance of the draft decision?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u89	Of course, Madam President. What I would constructively suggest, fellow Members, I am even doing this as an editorial proposal in relation to the project submitted by my colleague Tsvetanov and MPs from GERB, is to replace it with January 4th. Colleagues, January 6th is Friday. If we say that the vacation is until Friday, we obviously enter next week for plenary sessions, which goes about after January 10th and practically nothing changes. If we want something to change and have a week more work, then it's fine... [[The President Tsetska Tsacheva spoke to the speaker Mr. Peter Slavov with microphones off.]] Madam President, on the line you are indirectly doing behind my back, I would say that there are a lot of bills on the agenda right now. They're scheduled for next week, too. As I said, the Legal Committee has four meetings in the next seven days. I think there will be bills, but the question is whether we are willing to join and do so. I am doing this as an editorial proposal, if you will allow me to replace it with the 4th of January and to be able to work this week, if we wish. Mr. Tsvetanov, as a whole, I admire your proposal in the rest of the December days to have an extraordinary meeting and to work on it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u90	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u91	My fellow Members, I would not have spoken, but when we are all talking about the authority of the highest institution in Bulgaria and that the rating is low, and this is the authority of all of us, we can easily explain why it is so low with these proposals. As of yesterday, I've been thinking about what would cause some MPs to make such an offer. I've come to the conclusion that this is either the height of populism or it's a sense of guilt that they didn't do the job. Well, how do they end up with the Reformation bloc not in the Chamber, not in the Chamber, not in the committees. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I feel guilty too. I feel guilty that I haven't had enough time to see my 90-year-old mother make time for her, for my grandchildren. I think these Christian holidays are precisely why people can see their loved ones because they don't have time. Most of us don't stop on Saturdays and Sundays. And speaking like that from inside here, that we haven't done our job, I think it's exactly the tip of populism. To get into their style, I'd say I'd understand them, but if we'd offered to work at night. I would support such a decision. You'll say, "Why?" If we worked nights, colleagues, then there wouldn't be a chance to make populists like them. That's why it's better to adopt the second Project for a solution. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u92	- What's the line? Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u93	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Velchev, your line about the Reformation Block was not correct. You said you wanted to spend the holidays with your mother. I also want to spend them with my relatives and friends, but, unfortunately, at the same time they work. Therefore, when they work, I can't spend them with them. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u94	Second line? I won't. A hole? I won't. Any other MPs? Come on in, Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, whenever elections approach, we somehow deepen this debate and bring it into the plane the more we beat ourselves up, the more we humiliate ourselves, the better. That's not good, though. If you want, we can put it in an even bigger plane. Understand, the National Assembly is a completely different kind of institution. A million times we've had this debate here, what kind of work should be done, at night we've been sitting. Do you think that night meetings have brought something very good? But you can't. Understand, there are several projects. Let us discuss the projects, what is offered to us, why it is proposed, why these dates should be, if it is most appropriate. In this regard, it will also be my speech. It seems to me that an emergency meeting next week on December 20th should not be happening. If we want to work all week, let's not have an extraordinary meeting on December 20th and have a normal meeting on Friday, have a normal parliamentary week. In this way, it will be allowed to have committees, they will draw up enough texts that, after 10 January, they can enter the Chamber. Similarly, it will not be necessary to make extraordinary committees on 9 and 10 January. In such a situation, when we make some extraordinary legislation or extraordinary action in pre-election terms, the question is why we do not do this all the time. If we do it now, the most logical thing we can bring in is then the proposals that are being made right now become trendy and permanent. It does not suit us as a National Assembly, as people in this Chamber, who have to decide the fate of millions of Bulgarians, to decide in a piece: one year to be one and the same, and the next year to be the same. We must be a guarantor of the stability of this country! The sayings of this sort: Who went to do what on the fields, and therefore do not go to the plenary! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u96	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Simeonov. After him, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u97	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For me, what develops is humiliating! With all due respect to the importers of the first and second projects, I would like to raise the following question. Dear colleagues, only a month and a half ago we were changing the Rules of the National Assembly. If you had the deep inner belief that it had to be changed, then why didn't you make such a proposal?! In fact, what changed from this month and a half to today? Only the political situation, which shows that it is likely to go to extraordinary elections. What we are doing at the moment is a race in populism. Excuse me, and it will further lower the otherwise low rating of the Forty-third National Assembly, which personally offends me. There are rules that we have all voted and adopted. Let us be so kind as to observe our regulations! Not cheat, run on vacations and whatever! To abide by the law that we have created, and if we think it needs to be changed, it needs to be changed. I don't accept this kind of vote in a piece this year's decision! Can anyone tell me what the holidays are like at the end of 2016 from the end of 2015 or 2014? I repeat: the only difference is that elections are coming. I don't think we should be so humiliated, we shouldn't be hovering in our desire to like each other at all. We're not gonna like each other, so be assured, whatever we do! Let us at least show that we respect the order and law that we have created ourselves. However, both can be voted on by themselves and the other proposal, but I repeat: these things, in my opinion, are deprived of serious meaning. At the moment we want to show that we are very principled, very empathetic to the working hours of others, but as has been said, there have been cases when work has been done much more overtime. I suggest you follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u98	Mr. Stanilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose an end to the debate and a move to vote with the following association, if I may so designate it. Dear colleagues, if we all go out to the National Assembly, dressed in a sack of zeblo and with one scourge in our hand, we start beating ourselves up, a huge crowd will gather, which will applaud us, but then no one will choose us anywhere! Here I will complete the speech of colleague Valeri Simeonov with the following: when we do not respect ourselves, no one will respect us! Parliaments in all countries have always been the target of popular discontent to be diverted from executive power. We too are such a target, and since we are here, we must tolerate it and endure it. The problem is whether we humiliate ourselves or keep our dignity. As my colleague Simeonov said, we have voted on the Rules of Procedure and we cannot constantly violate it with separate proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u100	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. The project of Mr. Slavov, Dimitrov and Andreyev: Project! DECISION to reduce the days of the Christmas vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Christmas vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 is until 2 January 2017. 2. The first regular plenary session of the National Assembly after the vacation under point 1. 1 is January 4th, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. We vote. 140 MPs voted: 13, against 62, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION in connection with the Christmas vacation and the work of the National Assembly in December 2016 and January 2017. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 43, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 20 December 2016 at 11.00 on an additionally adopted agenda. 2. The Christmas vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 is from 23 December 2016 to 6 January 2017. 3. The National Assembly's committees hold meetings on 9 and 10 January 2017 On this draft decision Mr. Slavov made a proposal in point. 2: Instead of the text by 6 January 2017, the text shall be "up to 2 January 2017" including "up to and including the text." We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 136 MPs: 15 against 60, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the decision in his version of the importer. They voted 139 MPs: 108, against 7, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Dear MPs, the exhibition of the artist Petar Bordzhoshki will be opened at 11.30 am at the Club of the National Representative. All MPs are invited to the opening. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u101	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Let's start with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TERRORISM CONVERSION. Importer is the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u102	Let the vacation guys come. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u103	Please contact the leaders of their parliamentary groups. Colleagues, we need to start again with a name check. [[BSP LB.]] Mr. Lazarov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u104	Madam President, before I begin to report the bill, I ask you to put the admission to the Chamber to the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u105	And who's voting? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u106	...of Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Petar Toshkov, State Expert at the Ministry of Interior, Legal Service, and Mrs. Tanya Karakash, DANS.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u107	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Colleagues on the left, please vote, we're in voting mode. [[Radio.]] Mr. Mikov, have you been able to vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u108	Yeah. Not only did I succeed, I did, but where is Mithodi? [[BSP LB lines, raging.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u109	The weather, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u110	Yeah, I'm following him. Time's up. Stop the vote. Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional login: Borislav Iglev, Ayhan Etem, Velizar Enchev, Filip Popov, Ivan Ivanov, Magdalena Tasheva, Borislav Milanov, Kancho Filipov, Gema Grozdanova, Christian Vigenin, Anna Alexandrova, Stanislav Ivanov, Borislav Velikov. We're moving on. I'm voting on the motion for admission to court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u111	Can we also read Mr. Angelo Prokopiev, the State Agency of Intelligence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u112	We vote. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u113	The Counter-Terrorism Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Chapter one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u114	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law and Chapter One. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u115	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 t. 1 to change this way: the protection of the life, rights and ownership of citizens, the rights and ownership of legal persons and the state against terrorism. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following additions are made: 1. in t. 1 a new comma shall be placed after the word "strategic sites" and added; 2. in t. 2, at the end of the provision, after the word "terroristism" is added in Bulgaria and beyond. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u116	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The proposal made by the ABB aims to create more precision in terminology, which is laid down in art. 1, para. 2, p. 1 with the idea to clearly distinguish and define the rights of citizens, of legal persons, of the other part... and the ownership of the so-called by us. We believe that the proposal gives a wider scope of the proposed texts and will therefore have the possibility of clearer and precise precision and argumentation during the interpretation of these provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u118	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 103 MPs: 37 against 9, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Dubov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 95 MPs: 17 against 24 abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 1 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 75, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u119	Article 2. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is created t. 9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9. continuous contact with the intelligence services of NATO, Israel, Russia and others. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The main principles in countering terrorism are: 1. compliance with the Constitution, laws and international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, as well as the law of the European Union; 2. respect and guarantee of human rights and fundamental freedoms; 3. the advantage of saving human life and health over other activities; 4. cooperation with citizens and their organisations; 5. openness and transparency in the implementation of policies for countering terrorism; 6. centralised management and control of activities to counter terrorism; 7. timely exchange of information on competence between state and local authorities and administrations; 8. coherent implementation of counter-terrorism activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u120	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Dubov's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support it. Vote 94 MPs: 15 against 28, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. Article 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u121	Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the version until 4.11.2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 3: Art. 3. The measures and restrictions under this law shall apply to the extent necessary to achieve their objectives. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 4. Art. 4. The Law on the Protection of Disasters applies to cases that are not settled by this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u122	Statements on proposals for new Articles 3 and 4? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement is in connection with art. 3. If you pay attention, the text is not comprehensive and is unclear. What exactly is the purpose of this text as a record: The measures and restrictions under this law are applied to the extent necessary to achieve their objectives? This makes it possible to limit the rights of Bulgarian citizens institutionally, with such a vague text. In respect of art. 4 It becomes clear that the manifesting with fullness of the long prepared Anti-terrorist Act is breaking with this article. 4. Even after a significant number of opinions expressed by the experts after passing through the committees, the majority in this Parliament clearly shows that the texts in the Law are not exhaustive in terms of preventing, countering and eliminating the consequences of terrorism. My proposal is art. 3 not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u124	And in the sense of the particulars, do you make any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u125	No, just don't have a cock like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u126	There's no such thing as a member. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u127	Madam President, honourable Members! Article 3 "This is the principle of proportionality. It is well known to those who apply the Law to those who are interested in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I don't think we need to lecture here anymore. It is written in this way as opposed to those who know what the principle of proportionality means that it is nevertheless clear that these measures and restrictions are applied to the extent necessary to achieve the objectives. The targets are set. As regards the statement of art. 4, It is absolutely unnecessary to repeat texts that are governed by the other Law on Disasters when it comes to disasters that are the consequences of a terrorist act, because it is then acted under the Law on Disasters. I therefore propose to support these texts, moreover, that they were supported in the working group and that representatives of all departments, representatives of the scientific community and the justice system participated in the working group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u128	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new article. 3 in the version of the Commission report. Vote art. 3. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal to create a new article. 4. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. This proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u129	Chapter two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Article 3. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs: Art. 3, para. 1 to acquire the following form: The competent authorities, which are engaged in countering terrorism, are the Ministry of Interior and the DANS. The other state and local authorities and bodies shall assist and assist the competent authorities by carrying out the functions and tasks assigned to them by this law and by other legal acts. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3 which becomes art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u130	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u131	Thank you, Madam President. We believe that if the text so far remains, this would in practice mean that all authorities and structures in the country are countering terrorism. Furthermore, maintaining this text in the future would give rise to diluting the competences and, accordingly, the responsibilities that are mentioned in the proposed text. In this regard, we believe that more precision is needed. Yes, all competent authorities and institutions are in the process of countering terrorism, but the functional responsibilities of managing these processes must be clearly allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u132	- What's the line? I won't. Anyone else willing to take a stand? I shall put to the vote the proposal for the title of Chapter Two, supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Belemezov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal! They voted 92 MPs: 18, against 17, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 3 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, with a new numbering 5. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u133	Article 4 by importer. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4th, c. 2 at the beginning of the sentence are added the words "In an eight-month period since the entry into force of the law." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 3 before the word "terroristism" is added. 3 The National Plan for Countering Radicalisation and Terrorism is adopted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 t. 3 after the preposition of............................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4 which becomes art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u134	Statements? Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! I allow myself to take into account the second part of the proposal made by us: before the word "terroristism" is added to the "radicalization" and "radicalization" is added, and in the next point the "National Plan for Countering Radicalisation and Terrorism" is adopted. We believe that terrorism, as a modern asymmetrical threat, should not be seen isolated from all other underlying problems. In the topic of terrorism, the topics related to human trafficking, radicalisation and the migration crisis, which is increasingly infesting Europe, must also be addressed in a very precise manner. In this regard, as a broader concept, as part of a broader picture, talking about terrorism, we must put in precise legal concepts and the subject of radicalisation. It is in this regard that we call for our proposals to be supported, which are at your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u136	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Belemezov and a group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 16 against 12, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Dubov's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 89 MPs: 17 against 32, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 4 by importer supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 6. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u137	Article 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5 which becomes art. 7, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): ................................................................................................. 6.................................................................................. Article 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 which becomes art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u138	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Articles 7 and 8 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u139	Article 7. Proposal of MP Mihov and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1.1. in para. 4 to be added t. 8 with the following text: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 8. the results of an external examination of the state of health of the person who has been para 1.2. 5 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7 which becomes Art. 9. Art. 9. (1) The armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria shall participate in countering terrorism and in overcoming the consequences of terrorism in accordance with the plans for countering terrorism and this law. (2) Military personnel from the armed forces shall have the right, under the conditions and under this law, to carry out checks for the identification of persons, to detain persons, to search, to check personal effects and vehicles, to carry out checks in premises without the consent of the owner or the resident or in their absence, to use physical force and assistance, to use weapons. (3) For the enforcement of the powers under para. 2 soldiers from the armed forces undergo training. (4) The rules for the use of physical force, aids and weapons in the performance of the tasks under para. 1 and the order for carrying out the checks referred to in Article 1. 10 shall be determined by an act of the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Chief of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u140	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Mihov's proposal and group. The Commission does not support it. They voted 86 MPs: 14 against 20, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 9 with the numbering and editing of the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u141	Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs for the creation of new members. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new art. 10's 15: Art. 10. (1) Military personnel of the armed forces shall be entitled to carry out checks to identify a person: 1. for which there is evidence that it is related to the preparation or execution of a terrorist act; 2. at a checkpoint; 3. when carrying out security of strategic sites or critical infrastructure objects. (2) The identification of the identity shall be carried out by presenting a document of identity to the person, information of citizens with an identified identity who know the person or otherwise fit for the collection of reliable data. Art. 11. (1) Military personnel from the armed forces shall have the right to detain a person until the authorities of the Ministry of Interior (MI) arrive: 1. for which there is evidence that it is related to the preparation or execution of a terrorist act; 2. which, after due warning, knowingly prevents a public authority from fulfilling its duty of service; 3. which, by his conduct, violates public order or exposes his or her life or the lives of other persons to obvious danger; 4. in the event of failure to establish his identity in accordance with art. 10, para. 2. (2) In the exercise of the power under para. 1, Armed Forces troops shall immediately notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and transmit the person to them at the time of their arrival. (3) A record shall be drawn up in duplicate for the receiving person and the transmitting person, which shall contain: 1. date, time and place of drawing up the minutes; 2. own, fatherly and family name, and position of the constituent and of the authority of the Ministry of Interior, receiving the person detained; 3. date, time and place of detention; 4. a description of the circumstances in which the person was detained; 5. details of the identity of the detained person (in case they are established), his or her own, father's and last name, single civil number, permanent or current address, and for foreigners the names of Cyrillic or Latin, nationality, date of birth, address, identity card/passport; 6. the explanations or objections of the person detained, if any; 7. own, fatherly and surname of witnesses (if any), CNN, permanent or current address and their written indications; 8. inventory of the items of the person in custody; 9. Signatures of the organs under point 9. 2. (4) Before handing over the person and drawing up the minutes, a medical examination shall be carried out at the discretion of the police authorities or at the request of the person in custody. Art. 12. (1) Military personnel from the armed forces shall have the right to conduct a personal search, to check personal belongings, baggage, and to carry out checks on vehicles, ships, aircraft, containers and items carried therein on: 1. holding person under art. 11; 2. a person for whom there is evidence that he carries dangerous or prohibited items, or that he has items related to the preparation or execution of the terrorist act. (2) A personal search may be carried out only by a person belonging to the sex of searches. (3) For all cases of personal search or inspection under para. 1 minutes shall be drawn up and the relevant police authority notified. (4) The minutes shall reflect: 1. the date, time and place of the search or inspection; 2. own, fatherly and surname, and position of the maker who performed the search or inspection; 3. details of the identity of the searched person; the items that have been checked, described by type, state and place where they were found; the vehicle inspection shall indicate the registration number, mark, model and other identification data; 4. the details of the identity of the witness and of the person concerned whose goods or vehicles are subject to the verification; 5. signatures of the maker, witness and the person to whom a copy of it is provided. Art. 13. (1) Military personnel of the armed forces shall be entitled to carry out checks on premises without the consent of the owner or owner or owner or in their absence only where: 1. immediate imminent or initiated terrorist act should be prevented; 2. there is evidence that a person is hiding in the premises related to the preparation or execution of a terrorist act; 3. it is necessary to provide urgent assistance to persons whose life, health or personal freedom is in danger or there are other cases of extreme need. (2) For all cases of checks carried out under para. 1 minutes shall be drawn up and the relevant police authority notified. (3) The minutes shall reflect: 1. the date, time and place of inspection; 2. own, fatherly and surname, and position of the maker who carried out the inspection; 3. details of the identity of the witness and of the owner or owner of the premises (in case they are established); 4. a description of the circumstances of the verification; 5. signatures of the maker, witness and the person, owner or owner of the room to which a copy of it is provided. Art. 14. (1) Military personnel of the armed forces shall be entitled to use physical force and assistance only where this is absolutely necessary in: 1. countermeasures or refusal to execute a legal order; 2. detention of a person in the cases provided for in this Law which is not subject to or resisted; 3. in an attempt by a person to escape, to harm his or her life and the health of others; 4. assisting other public authorities or officials who are illegally prevented from carrying out their duties; 5. attacks against citizens and bodies; 6. release of hostages; 7. attacks on buildings, premises, facilities and means of transport; 8. taking measures to ensure personal safety when holding a person. (2) Aids are: handcuffs, rubber, plastic, assault, electroshock batons and utensils; chemicals approved by the Minister of Health; service dogs; blank cartridges, rubber cartridges, plastic and shock bullets; vehicle braking devices; space opening devices, light and acoustic devices with a distraction effect; armored machines. (3) In the cases under para. 1 soldiers use only the necessary force. (4) When using physical force and auxiliary means, the servicemen shall take all measures to protect the lives and health of the persons against whom they are directed. (5) The use of physical force and auxiliary means shall be suspended immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved. Art. 15. (1) Military personnel of the armed forces as a final measure shall be entitled to use military weapons and ammunition: 1. in the case of armed assault or threat with firearms; 2. in the case of release of hostages and kidnapped persons; 3. in the event of inevitable defense; 4. after a notice of detention of a person committing or committing a terrorist act if he resists or tries to escape; 5. after warning to prevent escape of a person detained in the appropriate order for a terrorist act to be committed. (2) When using weapons, the servicemen shall take all measures to protect the life of the person against whom they are directed and shall not be obliged to endanger the life and health of others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u142	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to establish new members from 10 to 15 including, with their respective content on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. Articles 10 to 15 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u143	Article 8 by importer. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. After the word "Competence" the words are added according to the SANS and the Ministry of Interior. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, 2, 5, 6, 7 and 9 before the word "terroristism" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8 which becomes Art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u144	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I take note of the first part of our proposal after the word "Competence" to add the words "coordinated with DANS and the Ministry of Interior" or otherwise the text in art. 8 must acquire the following character: The State and local authorities and structures within their competence and in agreement with the State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Home Affairs and have their designated ten, listed in the Bill, functional duties and responsibilities. We agree with them, but for the completeness of the text, for the clarification of the functional responsibilities and obligations, for the direct role and direct responsibility in the management of these processes, we believe that the words should be included in the text invariably in line with the State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Interior. We believe that our proposal contains a serious dose of resonance and we ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am taking this opportunity to support the proposal made by fellow Member Belemezov. I note that in the next article. 9, which appoints the Head of the National Operations Headquarters to be the Minister of Interior and all the resulting actions, it is necessary that, in relation to the competence of the individual bodies, there are methodical guidelines and coordination with the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security. I call on you to support Belemezov's proposal for an addition to art. 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u149	I'll be very brief. I do not see how the Council of Ministers will agree within the framework of its competence with the DANS and the Ministry of Interior to participate in the development of the National Counterterrorism Plan. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The Council of Ministers. I do not see how, within its competence, the State Agency of Intelligence and Military Information will coordinate with the SANS and the Ministry of Interior within its competence the development of the National Plan for Counteraction or to maintain readiness and forces. Obviously, colleagues here have not paid attention to the fullness of the Law what are the competences and powers. It is explicitly referred to in art. 8, para. 1: The state and local authorities and structures within their competence........ is................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It's a common text. Colleagues, I think the text is resonated and should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Lazarov, it is about clarifying the text and coordinating the different competences of the different services and institutions with those who will be responsible when there is already a crisis situation, operational national headquarters and measures to be taken in relation to the consequences of the work of such headquarters. Each institution cannot work independently and then without coordination, without having consistency with those who will effectively manage operational work, subsequently become aware of what they are, according to the competences of the individual units, the measures that have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Second line.. People's representative Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I fully agree with Mr. Iankov's reply. This is about coordinating these processes. But if we try to think and prevent it, I believe that in coordinating these processes, we have situations and hypotheses in which a terrorist act has already occurred and that damage must be effectively minimized, that specific actions should be done and implemented. Speaking of preventiveness, I believe that it is the State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Interior that is carrying out the necessary strategy and expertise through which the relevant plans must be implemented. In this particular direction, I believe that even the Council of Ministers must coordinate its actions, its processes, its procedures, which it implements, together with the relevant competent authorities, which are carriers of the highest expertise in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The law must be read in full. We're on art now. 8. Read art. 14. We will also get to it, we will vote on it, honourable Members, who made the lines and made the proposals. There you will see that coordination is indeed envisaged, even listed by which points, which bodies, who they coordinate with and which departments do not agree when drawing up the plans, but now we are still in art. 8. Come on, let's not spell it out. Let's look at the Law in full. I suggest that colleagues support this text. Yes, in art. 14 Further reference is made to the coordination of offices, but the laws must be read in full, not merely to make speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Are there any other statements? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u157	Read art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u158	Please don't go into dialogues. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 13, against 33, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 8 fully supported by the Commission and becoming art. 16 in her report. Vote 76 MPs: 66 against 1, abstention 9. Article 16 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u159	Article 9 by importer. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, para. 3 after the word "prosecutor" in its second use, a comma is placed and the President of the National Security Agency is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9 which becomes Art. 17, as in para. 3 words.............................................................................. 4 t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 6, p. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u160	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make an editorial proposal to remove text from art. 9, para. 3. Unfortunately, I have not seen the text to make the proposal in writing between first and second readings, but there is no obstacle to a proposal to drop a text to be made in plenary. I suggest the text that is in the middle of para. 3: The Prosecutor-General or his appointed deputy to the Prosecutor-General shall be dismissed for the following reasons. First of all, according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the protection of public order and security is the power of the executive power of the Council of Ministers. The involvement of the Attorney General or appointed by him deputy to the National Operations Headquarters is nonsense in this case because the line between the executive and the judiciary is blurring out. Secondly, the National Operations Headquarters is established by order of the Prime Minister, meaning we want the Prime Minister to order the Attorney General or his appointed deputy to become a member of this Operational Headquarters. It is unacceptable for such an act of the executive to be binding on a representative of the judiciary. Apart from that, see what are the powers of the National Operations Headquarters. I don't see why the Attorney General should be present at this National Operations Headquarters. In my opinion, this text... please pay attention, because it is a serious circumstance.......................................................................................... must be Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u162	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Probably also the caption before the Attorney General. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 13 against 35, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Atanas Atanasov from the parliamentary tribune: in para. 3 of art. 9 to drop the caption, as well as the expression of the Chief Prosecutor or appointed by him deputy to the Prosecutor General. They voted 78 MPs: 13 against 36, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 9 which becomes Art. 17 in the Commission report, as amended by the report. Vote art. 17 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 71 against 9, abstention 1. Art. 17 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u163	..Chapter 3..preventive activity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u164	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The name of Chapter 3 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u165	Art. 10 according to the importer of the proposal of the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs in art. 10. Four down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10, which becomes art. 18, as in t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u166	You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, very briefly. We offer in t. 4 The application of the preventive measures under art. 17.................................................................................................. 17 " which we have just adopted concerning the provisions relating to the establishment of the National Operations Headquarters for the Management of Powers and Means of Countering Terrorism. We believe that preventive measures are not characteristic of this text, which should be referred to an already committed terrorist act and the establishment of a National Operational Headquarters. That is why we offer your attention only t. 4 drop by the idea that we support as a whole art. 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 8 against 13, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 18 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 68, none, abstention 10. Art. 18 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u169	Art. 11 The proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. para. 1 is amended as follows: In order to assess the threat of a terrorist act, five levels of threat shall apply as follows: 1. the first level of low level of threat; 2. second level.. average degree of threat; 3. third-level high degree of threat; 4. fourth level... a very high level of threat, at risk; Five, level five, active level, with terrorist acts under way. 2. in para. The following amendments shall be made: .) (c).................................................................. 1 the words "low threat level' shall be replaced by "low threat level'; (b) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." for the second level, the available information and events suggest an estimate of an average probability of carrying out a terrorist act; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) 2 becomes t. 3, with the words "high level of threat' being replaced by "third level'; (d) c. 3 becomes t. 4, and the words "very high level of threat' shall be replaced by "the fourth level'; (e) create a t. 5. 5. for the fifth level all elements of threat are available in the country or in the immediate neighbourhood and have started terrorist activities. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u170	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Dubov's unsupported proposal and group. Vote 76 MPs: 11 against 24 abstentions 41. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 11 by importer, which becomes art. 19 in the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12, which becomes Art. 20. Article 13? a proposal of the MP Miho Mihov and a group of MPs: In Art.13, the existing text becomes para. 1 and create para. 2 with the following text: The elements of the armed forces included in the National Counter-Terrorism Plan shall be brought to a higher level of readiness by order of the Minister of Defence at a high or very high level of threat and shall be included in the tasks of the declared...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u172	Statements? I won't. We are voting for an unsupported proposal from Mr. Mihov and a group. They voted 76 MPs: 20, against 17, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Articles 12 and 13 by importer with their new numbering of Articles 20 and 21 on the Commission report. They voted 76 MPs for 72, against none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u173	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14, which becomes art. 22, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 10, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 16, p. In paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 8, p. The
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u174	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 14 by importer, which becomes art. 22 in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u175	Art. 15 under the importer In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1, at the end of the provision, after the word "terroristism" a comma shall be placed and added after consultation with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and SANS. 2. The creation of para. 3: The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 are not obliged to provide the Ministry of Interior and DANS with information about the type of construction. The same shall, upon request, be provided by the respective municipal administration or the DNCC. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. (1) Owners and users of buildings and public service facilities representing constructions first, second and third category under art. 137 of the Law on Construction in the Area, as well as institutions in pre-school, school and higher education and nurseries from a lower category develop and implement measures to counter terrorism. (2) The types of objects under para. 1, the minimum requirements for measures and the procedure for the exercise of control shall be determined by a regulation issued by the Minister of Interior and the President of the SANS.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u176	Statements? I won't. We are voting for an unsupported proposal from Mr. Dubov and a group. Vote 77 MPs: 17 against 20, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 23 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u177	Article 16 "A proposal of the MPs Belemezov and a proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: Art. 16 to go. The Commission does not support the proposals. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the MNS, in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 24: Art. 24. (1) In respect of a person for whom data are available from which a reasonable assumption can be made that he is carrying out an activity posing a threat of terrorism may be applied preventive measures. (2) The measure under para. 1 shall be taken to prevent the person from participating in terrorism, as well as to prevent the danger of carrying out a terrorist act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u178	That was the last sentence of "Al." 2 of art. 24 on the report. Statements? Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u179	Madam President, honourable Members! We have made similar proposals: Articles 16 to 25 on the Commission report to be dropped. Particularly under art. 16. We believe that it should not be introduced into the legislation in force the term "reasonable assumption', insofar as it does not constitute an imperative option in any way, but rather a thought building which can be interpreted in a coup d'état and thus be restricted rights of Bulgarian citizens. If there is sufficient data, the person should simply be arrested and restricted to his rights under the current Criminal Procedure Code. I believe that the proposal made by us to drop precisely those paragraphs, which bear the terminology, is a legitimate assumption, are extremely clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u180	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Belemezov and a group of MPs and Mr. Dubov and a group of identical ones for dropping art. 16 by importer. The Commission does not support these proposals. Vote 88 MPs: 28 against 36, abstention 24. The proposals have not been accepted. Vote art. 24 in the version of the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u181	Article 17. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs art. 17 to drop, and also the proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, which becomes art. 25, as in para. 4 words................................................................................. 1, t. Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: 1, t. 7..............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u182	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as the identical proposal of Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 17 against 39 abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the editorial of art. 17 by importer, which becomes art. 25, in the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 72, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I do not see in the Chamber Mr. Delchev and some of the other importers of the proposals under art. 18. One page text, unsupported. Report, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u183	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of Members of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 18 drop out, as well as a proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposals. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: "Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) Preventive measures under art. 17, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 5 and 6 shall be implemented by a reasoned order of the Chairman of the SANS or of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. (2) The order under para. 1 must contain: 1. the name of the issuing authority; 2. details of the person to whom the measure applies; 3. factual and legal grounds for issuing the order; 4. the measures to be applied; 5. the body that will control the implementation of the measure; 6. the period for which the measure is applied and the reasons to justify its duration; 7. to which authority and within what period the order may be appealed; 8. date of issue and signature of the person who issued the order. (3) Preventive measures under art. 17, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 7 shall apply by decision of the district court at the current address of the person to whom they are required. When the person does not have a current address in the country, the request is examined by the Sofia City Court. (4) Proposal for issuing orders under para. 1, respectively, a request under para. 3 may make the heads of the main structures of the Ministry of Interior and DANS carrying out operational and search activities, which must contain: 1. the legal basis and the purpose for which the application of the measure is necessary; 2. details of the person to whom the measures are to be applied; 3. the measures to be implemented; 4. a proposal for the duration of the measures; 5. full and comprehensive indication of the facts and circumstances of the imposition of the measure; 6. a proposal for monitoring the implementation of the measure. (5) The court shall take a decision under para. 3 in the order of art. 65 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (6) The factual grounds for the application of a specific preventive measure, where they contain classified information, shall be indicated in a separate document drawn up by the officials concerned under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. (7) The authority which issued the order under para. 1, respectively, the court shall immediately send it to the authority designated to supervise the implementation of the measure. The Commission does not support the proposal. In practice, the entire text by importer is written, only referred to a district court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u185	Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 26: Art. 26. (1) Preventive measures under art. 25, para. 1 shall be implemented by a reasoned order of the President of the SANS or of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior. (2) Proposal for issuing orders under para. 1 may make the heads of the main structures of the Ministry of Interior and DANS carrying out operational and search activities, which must contain: 1. the legal basis and the purpose for which the application of the measure is necessary; 2. details of the person to whom the measures are to be applied; 3. the measures to be implemented; 4. a proposal for the duration of the measures; 5. full and comprehensive indication of the facts and circumstances of the imposition of the measure; 6. a proposal for monitoring the implementation of the measure. (3) The order under para. 1 must contain: 1. the name of the issuing authority; 2. details of the person to whom the measure applies; 3. factual and legal grounds for issuing the order; 4. the measures to be applied; 5. the body that will control the implementation of the measure; 6. the period for which the measure is applied and the reasons to justify its duration; 7. to which authority and within what period the order may be appealed; 8. date of issue and signature of the person who issued the order. (4) The factual grounds for the application of a specific preventive measure, where they contain classified information, shall be indicated in a separate document drawn up by the officials concerned under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. (5) The authority which issued the order under para. 1 shall send it by official means to the authority designated to supervise the implementation of the measure. The Controlling Authority shall immediately award the order to the person for whom the measure has been taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u186	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs and Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs who are identical. The Commission does not support them. We are voting on two proposals not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 16 against 36, abstention 32. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, also not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 10, against 13, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 26 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 67 against 11, abstention 11. Article 26 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u187	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of Members of the National Proposal of the National Representative D. Dubov and a group of Members of the National Assembly........................................................................................ Nineteen drop out. The Commission does not support the proposals. There is a proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 27: Art. (1) The orders referred to in Article 27 26, para. 1 shall be subject to immediate enforcement and may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court. (2) The complaint shall be lodged by the authority which issued it within 7 days of receipt of the order. (3) The complaint against an order under para. 1 does not stop its execution. (4) The Judge-Rapporteur shall set the case within 14 days of receipt of the appeal. (5) The Court shall examine the case in a Chamber of three Judges in open session with the participation of the person to whom the measure has been taken and of the authority which issued the order. The appearance of the person shall be provided by the authority which issued the order. The case shall be dealt with in the absence of the person if he declares that he does not wish to appear. (6) The Court shall examine the regularity and admissibility of the action. Where irregularities are found, the court shall allow the party to be suspended at the hearing. (7) Where the irregularity is not dismissed or the action is inadmissible, the court shall dismiss the case by order which shall be final. (8) Reply to the appeal and evidence may be submitted at the hearing. (9) The Court shall rule without delay by a decision which shall be final. (10) For the outstanding ones in para. 1-9 questions apply the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u188	Statements under art. 19? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 20, against 28, abstention 32. The proposals have not been accepted. I propose a vote on art. 27 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 6. Art. 27 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u189	Under art. 20 there are proposals from the National Representative Belemezov and a group and from the National Representative Dubov and the group of members to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission shall support the proposal of the importer to art. 20, which becomes 28, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). In the case of the aid measure, the Commission must assess whether the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u190	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. Both proposals shall not be adopted by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 10, against 33, abstention 35. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 28 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 10. Art. 28 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u191	under art. 21 At importer there is a proposal by the MPs Belemezov and a group and a proposal by Dubov and a group of MPs to drop the member. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21, which becomes Art. 29: Art. 29. (1) The authority issuing the order for the application of the preventive measure shall be given written and reasoned within 24 hours at the request of the person for: 1. permission under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1-5; 2. annulment of the measure. (2) Refusal under para. 1, t. 1 shall be subject to appeal within 3 days of its receipt to the Supreme Administrative Court. The Court shall immediately examine the action in a three-member Chamber in closed session and shall rule by order. (3) Refusal under para. 1, t. 2 shall be subject to appeal in accordance with Article 2. 27. (4) When the court confirms the refusal to grant permission, a new request may only be made in the event of a change in circumstances. (5) Where the court confirms the refusal to revoke the measure, a new request within 3 months shall be inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u192	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. Both are not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 16 against 37, abstention 24. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 29 according to the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 66, none, abstention 15. Art. 29 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u193	Under art. 22 At importer there is a proposal of the MP Belemezov and a group of MPs and of Dubov and a group of MPs to drop the member. The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission shall support the importer's test for art. 22, which becomes Art. 30, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 to amend this Regulation by means of Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Belemezov and a group of MPs and Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs to drop the member. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, which becomes art. 31, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 (2). In paragraph 26, paragraph 26 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u194	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and the group, as well as the MP Dimitar Dubov and the group for art. 22. These proposals are not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 14 against 41, abstention 23. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the proposals of MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs for art. 23 by importer. Both proposals are not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 13, against 46, abstention 20. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 30 and 31 on the Commission report. Please vote. We can't grab the audience with you, Mr. Lazarov, something... We can't grab the audience! Vote 81 MPs: 64, none, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. [[Votes for the quorum are below the required quorum.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, the colleagues have obviously been distracted. Some of them couldn't vote. I'm gonna have to ask you to put the text to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u196	I didn't accidentally tell you we can't grab the audience. Please rethink the Commission's text for Articles 30 and 31. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 83 MPs: 69, against 1, abstention 13. Articles 30 and 31 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u197	Proposal of the National Representative Lazarov, made under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in the version of 04.11.2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 32: Art. 32. (1) Upon establishment of websites whose content motivates terrorism or through which knowledge of terrorism is distributed, the Ministry of Interior and the DANS may request the President of the Specialized Criminal Court to order all undertakings providing electronic communications networks and/or services to suspend access to those websites. (2) The request under para. 1 shall be submitted by the Minister of Interior or authorised by him or by the President of the SANS or authorised by him or by the Deputy Chair and shall contain information on the website to be stopped and reasons for its suspension. (3) The President of the Specialized Criminal Court or the Vice-President appointed by him shall rule on the request within 24 hours of receipt of the request and shall immediately send his act to the authorities under para. 1. (4) Orders issued by the court to suspend access to the websites under para. 1 shall be published immediately after receipt of the official website of the Ministry of Interior and DANS. (5) The undertakings providing electronic communications networks and/or services shall be obliged to stop access to the relevant websites immediately after the publication of the order under para. 4. (6) The websites under para. 1, access to which it is suspended shall be checked every three months by the Ministry of Interior and the DANS respectively. (7) In the cases under para. 6 when it is established that the content inciting terrorism or spreading knowledge of terrorism has been deleted, the Ministry of Interior and the DANS shall notify the authority which issued the suspension order. (8) In the cases under para. 7 The President of the Specialized Criminal Court or a Vice-President authorised by him shall authorise access to the relevant websites, notified within 24 hours of the Ministry of Interior and the SANS. (9) The authorisation under para. 8 shall be published in the order of para. 4. Under art. 24 A proposal of the National Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs and the National Representative Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 24 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, which becomes Art. 33. Under art. 25 under the importer also proposal of the National Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs and a proposal of the National Representative Dubov and a group of MPs. 25 to drop. The Commission does not support these proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, which becomes art. 34, and in it the words........................................................................................ The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u198	You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. Both are not supported by the Commission and are identical. Please vote on the article. 24 by importer. They voted 93 MPs: 18, against 45, abstention 30. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote proposals of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. Both proposals are identical and are not supported by the Commission. Please vote on the article. 25 by importer. 90 MPs voted: 22, against 49, abstention 19. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 32, 33 and 34 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 74, none, abstention 13. Articles 32, 33 and 34 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u199	Chapter 4 - Section I - The Commission supports the text of the importer for their name. Under art. 26 supposed by the MP Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 36. Proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." Al. 3 becomes para. 2, and the words........................................................................................................... Proposal of the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." Al. 3 to become para. 2. In the new al. 2 words to drop. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26, which becomes Art. 35: Art. 35. (1) In the event of a specific threat to a terrorist act or in the case of a terrorist act, an anti-terrorism operation may be carried out in accordance with the threat or act. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply in cases where there is a danger of the use of weapons of mass destruction in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purpose of carrying out a terrorist act. (3) The Head of the National Operational Headquarters shall immediately inform the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the President of the National Assembly of the actions taken under para. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u200	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals of the MPs Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs, as well as the MP Atanas Atanasov in their unsupported part. Both proposals that are not supported in this part are identical. They voted 92 MPs: 17 against 41, abstention 34. The proposals in the unsupported part shall not be accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter IV, Section I, and art. 35 on the Commission report supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The name of Chapter Four, Section I and Art. 35 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u201	Article 27 by importer. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 the words "the Minister of Interior" shall be replaced by the words "the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior" and "the Minister of Interior" shall be replaced by the words "the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. Aren't you going to withdraw it, Mr. Delchev? Let's not read it. It's too long.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u202	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u203	It's withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Dubov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the following additions are made: 1. in para. 1 a new comma shall be placed after the word, and a new comma shall be added, agreed with the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly. 2. in para. 2 a new comma shall be placed after the word, and a new comma shall be added, agreed with the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 after the words are held, the text by order of the Minister of Interior is replaced by a decision of the Council of Ministers. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 2 After the words...... by order of the Minister of Interior.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27, which becomes art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The anti-terrorism operation shall be conducted by order of the head of the National Operations Headquarters, which shall designate the Head of Operation, the boundaries of the area of operation and the beginning of the operation. (2) The Head of the National Operations Headquarters shall immediately terminate the operation by order under para. 1 after dropping the threat of a terrorist act or the danger to the lives and health of the people in the event of a terrorist attack.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u204	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an extremely important text and I ask you to understand its content. Unfortunately, I do not want anyone to be offended, but I find that often intuitu personnel are voted in this House, depending on who is making the proposal. If you like the man, if you don't like him, without discussing the text in substance. As we did, for example, by adopting a text with which the Prime Minister will order the Attorney General. This is about carrying out the anti-terrorist operation. Note that in the following texts the powers of the authorities are regulated in the conduct of the anti-terrorism operation and accordingly restrict the rights of citizens in the area of the anti-terrorism operation. It is about 19 restrictions, the last of which is for example to end rallies, meetings, demonstrations and so on. This is the last one, and there are a lot of other restrictions. The question is: who will order the anti-terrorist operation, because bear in mind that the difference between the authority of the authorities in the anti-terrorist operation and the emergency situation is very small? In fact, we have introduced something similar to a state of emergency and this will be done by ordering the sole authority of the Minister of Interior. Here, on quite another occasion, we have learned that the Council of Ministers may sign a decision when it comes to buying medicines, say, or exporting vaccines, or I do not know what, and when it is necessary to make such an important decision to introduce a restriction on a particular territory of the country, it will happen with a single authority. Therefore, my proposal is to replace the text of the anti-terrorist operation by order of the Minister of Interior with the government's decision. I think that this proposal is quite appropriate, it is not the issue that I am doing it. It must be realised that with such serious restrictions imposed on citizens, and that, not only in a terrorist act, but in data on the preparation of one, there is no obstacle, and I think it is appropriate that this should be done with a decision of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a statement. Is there anyone else to say? I won't. There will be a vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really quite briefly. We propose in the Commission report in art. 27, para. 1 words to be replaced by the words to be replaced by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. We believe that it is absolutely appropriate and imperative when the Law provides that the head of the National Operations Headquarters is the Minister of Interior, it should be determined again by law that the head of the specific anti-terrorism operation is the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. There are no other speeches either. Due to the expiration of the time scheduled for today, I am adjourned today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-14.u209	Tomorrow we will proceed with a vote on art. 36 and so forth on the Bill. Tomorrow, December 15, 2016, Thursday, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
