ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. We begin the sitting with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL. Importer: Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016, adopted on the first vote on 14 July 2016. We're moving on to the Bill. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. "The People's Representative Diana Yordanova, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 21 supposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission generally supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Information in the register Art. 21. (1) The register referred to in art. 20 is public, and the information in it is stored in electronic form, in Bulgarian and is available on the official websites of the Commission and the IDES. (2) For the registered auditors, natural persons, in the register referred to in art. 20 shall contain the following information: 1. the names of the identity document, address for correspondence, registration number and information for the website (if applicable); 2. the name, seat, management address and website (if applicable) of the trading company by which the audit profession is exercised; 3. name, registered office, management address, website (if applicable) and registration number of the audit firm in which the person participates as a partner or exercises an audit profession or is otherwise associated; 4. any other registration as a registered auditor in another Member State of the European Union and/or as an auditor in a third country, including the registration number and the name of the competent authority in the country that registered the person; 5. The entries under art. 23, para. 1 auditors and audit firms from third countries shall be marked explicitly as auditors and audit firms from third countries and not as statutory auditors. (3) For the registered auditors, in the register referred to in art. 20 shall contain the following information: 1. name and registration number; 2. legal and organisational form; 3. data for each partner, the amount of its shares and the type of its liability; 4. contact person, contact information and website (if applicable); 5. seat and address of management; 6. the addresses of all offices of the company in the country; 7. the names, addresses for correspondence and registration number of all partners who are registered auditors; 8. the names, correspondence addresses and registration numbers of registered auditors in contractual relations with the audit firm; 9. the names and addresses of the members of the management or control bodies of the audit firm which are registered auditors; 10. the names and addresses of all registered auditors otherwise associated with the audit firm; 11. the membership of an audit network and a list of the names and addresses of the companies, members or associated with the audit network, or an indication of the place where such information is publicly available; 12. any other registration as a registered auditor in another Member State of the European Union and/or as an auditor in a third country, including the registration number and the name of the competent authority in the country that registered the company. (4) In the event of a change in the circumstances to be entered, the persons referred to in para. 2 and 3 shall, within 7 days of its entry, notify in writing the IDEC, which shall reflect the change within three working days of receipt of the notification. (5) In the register referred to in art. 20 shall also enter information on: 1. write-off from the register as well as the reasons for it; 2. the penalties imposed on registered auditors. 3. the Commission's decision on the implementation of a supervisory measure under art. 89, para. 2, p. 5, 6, 7 or 8, including the period for its application. 4. the decision to impose disciplinary measures under art. 40, para. 3, p. 5 or 6, including the time limit for its application. c. 5, which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u3	Point 5 is not listed in the report, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u4	It's not in the report, but it's on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal. It is not clearly technically reflected by the experts in the text itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u5	All right, give me a t. 5 which is not recorded in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u6	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5. Temporary non-exercise of professional activities other than points 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Article 21 "Contributions'? I won't. Vote art. 21 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u8	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Registration of registered auditors from other Member States of the European Union Art. 22. (1) A natural person who has acquired in another Member State of the European Union the capacity to sign audit reports with an opinion on financial statements shall be entered in the register referred to in art. 20 after the successful implementation of exams in Bulgarian trade, tax and insurance law in Bulgarian. Exams shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of art. 71, para. 3, p. 4. (2) An audit firm registered in another Member State of the European Union wishing to carry out a financial audit in the country shall be entered in the register under art. 20, provided that any natural person conducting a financial audit on behalf of the audit firm is entered in the register. (3) For entry in the register under art. 20 persons per para. 1 and 2 submit an application to which they apply a registration certificate issued not earlier than three months from the date of application by the competent authority of the home Member State. (4) The professional activity of registered auditors entered in accordance with that Article shall be subject to public supervision under that law. Article 23 "The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, suggesting that everywhere the word "Register" should be added by art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall, in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of Articles 108 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, laying down detailed rules for the application of Articles 108 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 and 2 the words....................................................................................................................... 4 the word "s" shall be deleted and the words "in the order of this Article" shall be replaced by "in the register" under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Statements under art. 22 and 23? I won't. We vote Anblok Art. 22 in the version of the Commission and art. 23 with the added version of the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 114 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u10	Under art. 24 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Unsubscribed from the register Art. 24. (1) The registered auditor shall be written off from the register under art. 20 in the following cases: 1. submitting an application for the deletion of the registration; 2. the entry into force of a sentence for a deliberate crime of a general nature; 3. temporary deprivation of the right to exercise an audit profession; 4. a temporary exclusion decision from the IDEC entered into force; 5. when an audit firm ceases to meet the requirements of art. 7, para. 3; 6. death of the natural person. (2) The Commission shall inform the competent authorities of the Member State concerned in the event of withdrawal or temporary deprivation of the right to exercise an audit profession of a registered auditor approved in another Member State of the European Union and entered in the register of that Member State, indicating the reasons thereof. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4-6 at the discretion of the Commission or the IEDS, its audit practice may be verified by inspection, investigation or verification. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, by offering in para. 1 after the words of the register to be added by art. 20. The words................................................................................................ For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 19................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26, proposing that after the word "Register" to be added to the article. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, proposing that after the word "Register" be added to the article. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: "Professional Print" Art. 28. (1) The professional stamp of a registered auditor shall be of elliptical form. It shall bear the name, surname and number of the registered auditor in the register of art. 20. (2) The professional stamp of a registered auditor company shall be of elliptical form. On it are painted a company of Oditor, its company and its headquarters, as well as the number in the register of art. 20. (3) The seals under para. 1 and 2 shall be issued by the IDEC after entry into the register referred to in Article 2. 20. (4) The seals under para. 1 and 2 shall be used to verify the audit of the financial statements or in other cases provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u11	Thanks, so far. Honourable Members, speeches from art. 24 to Art. 28 including? There aren't any. We vote Anblok Art. 24 in the version of the Commission; art. 25, 26 and 27 by importer, with an added version of the Commission and art. 28 in the version of the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 109, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u12	"Chapter 3................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following wording of the name: "Exercising an auditor's profession. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29. Under art. 30 has a proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, by offering in para. 1 the words s 12 calendar months' shall be replaced by the year of the professional year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u13	Statements by the name of Chapter Three, art. Article 29 30? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Chapter 3 in the version of the Commission; art. 29 by importer and art. 30 in the version of the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 112, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u14	Under art. 31 has a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31 new paras are created. 3 and 4: (3) Registered auditors of natural persons shall be obliged to insure their liability for damage caused as a result of their professional activity by maintaining professional insurance with minimum insurance cover of the following amounts: 1. if they carry out only statutory audit and audit-related services in respect of enterprises that are not of public interest insurance in the minimum insurance amount of an insurance event of BGN 10 000 and a minimum insurance amount for all insurance events of BGN 30 000; and 2. if they carry out statutory audit and audit-related services and in respect of undertakings that are of public interest insurance in the minimum insurance amount of an insurance event of 50 000 BGN and minimum insurance amount for all insurance events of 150 000 BGN. (4) The requirement of para. 3 does not apply to registered auditors - non-professional natural persons. The Commission does not support the proposal under para. 3 and supports it in principle in para. 4. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Chobanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: "Obligations of the registered auditor Art. 31. (1) In the exercise of the audit profession, the registered auditor shall be obliged to: 1. respect the fundamental principles of professional ethics - integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due consideration, confidentiality and professional conduct, as required by applicable auditing standards and the Code of Ethics; 2. perform the audit commitment undertaken in accordance with the applicable auditing standards; 3. protect professional secrecy in an appropriate manner with regard to the information and documents to which it has access both during the performance of an audit engagement and after its completion; 4. provide, upon request, the replacement registered auditor with access to the relevant information he holds on the audited entity and the financial audit carried out by him for previous years, as required by the applicable auditing standards and the Code of Ethics, and can verify that he has granted the replacement statutory auditor access to that information; 5. inform the management of the audited entity of identified and possible material infringements of the legislation in force, of its constituent and other internal acts, in so far as it has become aware in carrying out an audit commitment; 6. explain to the management of the audited entity the nature and grounds for modifying the audit opinion in the audit report, as well as the paying attention paragraphs and other issues with which the audit opinion has not been modified; 7. report annually its activities in accordance with the rules of art. 71, para. 3, p. 4; 8. shall be insured for the risks of its activity for damage caused by a guilty failure to fulfil its obligations, with the exception of the time during which it does not operate; 9. assist the Commission and the IEDs in the exercise of their powers; 10. keep the audit records for a period of 5 years after the date of the audit report; 11. Member of the IDES and abides by its statutes. 12. provide the Commission annually with information on the undertakings audited by it and on the total revenue received by it under the terms and conditions laid down by the Commission. (2) In addition to the obligations under para. 1 when carrying out a compulsory financial audit in an undertaking of public interest the registered auditor shall be obliged to: 1. inform the management and audit committee of the undertaking of all circumstances that are or would undermine its independence in carrying out an audit commitment; 2. provide access to the additional reports under art. 60 and to any other information transmitted to the competent authorities pursuant to art. 61 as an earlier registered auditor; 3. inform the audit committee of the audited entity of identified and possible material infringements of the legislation in force, its constituent and other internal acts, insofar as it has become aware of the audit commitment; 4. explain to the audit committee of the audited entity the nature and grounds for modifying the audit opinion in the audit report, as well as to the paying attention paragraphs and other issues with which the audit opinion has not been modified. (3) The requirements of para. 1, t. 11 are not mandatory for registered auditors from other Member States of the European Union and third countries. (4) The minimum insurance amount for compulsory insurance is BGN 20 000 for registered auditors, not audit firms of public interest. for each insurance event and 60 000 leva. for all insurance events for one year and for registered auditors, audit firms of the public interest, is BGN 250 000. for each insurance event and 1 000 000 leva. for all insurance events in one year. (5) Upon termination of the exercise of the audit profession and after discharge from the register under art. 20, the person concerned is not obliged to enter into additional insurance under art. 469 (a.k.a. 6 of the Insurance Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u15	Thank you. Are there any statements under art. 31? There aren't any. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev in the part unsupported by the Commission presented by Mrs Yordanova under para. 3. They voted 99 MPs: 12, against 54, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 31. Vote 91 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u16	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the MP Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: is the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of Art. 32. (1) The registered auditor shall be liable for the damage he has caused if they are a direct and immediate consequence of his or her guilty action or omission. (2) Where a financial audit has been carried out jointly by more than one registered auditor, the financial responsibility of the registered auditors shall be solidarity. (3) The responsibility under para. 1 is carried out under the Law on Obligations and Contracts and under the rules of general action. (4) The responsibility of the registered auditor to the trust undertaking shall be limited to the three-fold amount of the agreed remuneration, but not less than those referred to in art. 31, para. 4 amounts per insurance event. The limitation of liability shall not apply in the event of intentional misconduct of the registered auditor, including in the event of the insolvency trustee being announced to the firm. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. "Chapter 4" Institute of Graduated Accountants. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. Under art. 36 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36, by offering in para. 1, t. 4 the words "public register" shall be replaced by the register under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 9 the word "in addition" shall be deleted; and in para. 2 words. 1-6 "to be replaced by the.......................................................................................................... Article 8 and the functions referred to in Article 8. 85, para. 3.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38, by offering in para. 3 sentence 2 to be amended as follows: the Board of Directors shall be a member of the Board of Directors and shall be responsible for its meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u17	Are there any statements for members from 32 to 38 inclusive? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor of speech to explain to my fellow Members why we have made a withdrawal of our proposal, because this is extremely important, fellow Members. We have withdrawn because, after a thorough analysis of this text and other laws, such as the Law on Private Judicial Contractors, the Law on Notaries and others, it has been established that this approach is unlawful, i.e. relevant organisations to determine the minimum amount of insurance themselves. Therefore, we withdrew our proposal so that we would not create further wicked practice. Here I appeal to my colleagues from the Committee on Legal Affairs that in a very urgent order legislative changes to these laws must be made and this illegal vicious practice should be removed in the Bulgarian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u19	Thank you. Are there lines? I won't. Is there anyone who wishes to speak for members from 32 to 38 inclusive? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting on members from 32 to 38 including, as art. 32 shall be in the version of the Commission; Art. 32 shall be in the version of the Commission; Article 33 is by importer; 34 is by importer; the name of Chapter Four by importer; art. 35 is by importer; art. 36 shall be in the version of the Commission; art. 37 is by importer; Art. 37 is by importer; 38 is in the Commission's version. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. Under art. 40 has a proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u21	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u22	Mr. Bayraktarov has just withdrawn his offer in art. 40. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: "Disciplinary Responsibility" Art. 40. (1) For breach of the IEC Statute, registered auditors and graduate accountants shall bear disciplinary responsibility. (2) For offences established by the Professional Ethics Board, the Quality Control Board of Audit Services and the Control Board, the relevant files shall be transmitted to the Disciplinary Board for which the Board of Directors of the IED shall be informed. (3) The following disciplinary measures shall be imposed for infringements of the Statutes of the IEDJ: 1. mandatory prescription for the resolution of a detected infringement; 2. publication of the IDEA website of the detected infringements for a period of one year; 3. deprivation of right to be elected in the bodies of the IDEC for a period of up to three years; 4. a notice of exclusion from the IDEC; 5. temporary exclusion from the IDEC for up to three years; 6. temporary exclusion from the IDEC for a period of 5 years; 7. fine from 1000 to 15 000 leva. (4) Where as a result of a done according to the order of art. 36, para. 1, t. 8 verification of infringements committed by a registered auditor in the exercise of his professional activity which are infringements of the provisions of the law and/or of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, the Management Board shall send the Commission the verification report. The Commission shall investigate and inform the IEDEC of the results thereof, the administrative penalties imposed and the supervisory measures applied. In this case, the IDEC does not impose any disciplinary measures. Under art. 41 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: "Disciplinary Production" Art. 41.(1) Disciplinary proceedings shall be initiated by a decision of the Disciplinary Board of the IEDS. (2) The disciplinary board shall examine in a closed session the files of checks carried out by the IEDC authorities with the participation of the audited statutory auditor or graduate accountant. (3) The disciplinary council shall allow all evidence which is relevant to clarify the case. (4) The disciplinary council shall be held within 14 days of the last meeting at which the relevant file under para. 2. (5) The disciplinary council shall impose disciplinary measures under art. 40, para. 3, p. 1-4 or 7 and propose to the Management Board to impose the measures under art. 40, para. 3, p. 5 or 6. (6) The Governing Council shall, by a majority of two thirds of its members, decide to impose the measures under art. 40, para. 3, p. 5 or 6 within 14 days of receipt of the proposal. (7) In disciplinary proceedings the provisions of Chapter Five, Section I of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply. (8) No disciplinary proceedings shall be initiated and the proceedings shall be terminated when two years have elapsed since the infringement took place. Under art. 42 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: "Appeal of a disciplinary measure imposed Art. 42. (1) The decision to impose a disciplinary measure under art. 40, para. 3, p. 1-4 or 7 may be appealed within 14 days of its notification to the person concerned before the Board of Directors of the IED. The Management Board shall decide on the appeal within one month of its receipt. (2) The decision of the Management Board to impose a measure under art. 40, para. 3, p. 1, 2 or 4 is final. The decision of the Management Board to impose a measure under art. 40, para. 3, p. 3 or 7 is subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia-city, under the order of Chapter 10a, Section I of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) The decision of the Management Board to impose a measure under art. 40, para. 3, p. 5 or 6 of a registered auditor shall be subject to an appeal before the Commission within 14 days of its notification to the person concerned. The Commission shall, within one month of receipt of the complaint, decide by means of a decision confirming or repealing the decision of the Board of Directors of the IDEC. The Commission's decision is subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia-City, under Chapter 10a, Section I of the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) The decision of the Management Board to impose a measure under art. 40, para. 3, p. 5 or 6 of a graduate accountant expert is subject to appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia-city under the order of Chapter 10a, Section I of the Administrative Procedure Code. Under art. 43 has a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: supplied enforcement of a disciplinary measure fine Art. 43. The enforcement of an effective decision imposing a disciplinary measure on a fine shall be permitted at the request of the Board of Directors of the IDEC in accordance with art. 418 of the Civil Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u23	So far, thank you. Statements from art. Art. 39 to Art. 43, including? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we vote Articles 39 to 43 including, as art. 39 is by importer, art. 40 is the version of the Commission, Art. 40. Article 41 shall be amended by the Commission, Art. 41. 42 is the version of the Commission, art. 43 is also the Commission's version. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u24	"2nd Financial Audit." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Two. "Chapter 5" - Financial Audit of Financial Statements - General Requirements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Article 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44, by offering in para. 2 the words "sizes' shall be replaced by "financial reporting frameworks' and the word "sizes' shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48, by offering para. 2 sentence 2 second to be amended as follows: The Reward for carrying out a financial audit cannot be conditional or determined on the basis of the provision of additional services to the undertaking in question; in para. 3, at the end of the sentence, second to add a supplier; in para. 4 words to be replaced by the trustee and the word to be replaced by the company to be replaced by the company. Under art. 49 has a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49: Liberation of a registered auditor from the implementation of a financial audit commitment Art. 49. (1) Registered auditor who has been elected and with whom there is a signed letter under art. 48 may not refuse to issue an audit report or be exempted from the undertaking early, except for reasonable reasons. Divergence in the views on accounting treatment or scope and nature of audit procedures is not a valid reason for refusing to issue an audit report or for early discharge. (2) Reasonable reason under para. 1 is any of the following: 1. existence of facts and circumstances that violate the independence or objectivity of the registered auditor; 2. objective inability to fulfil the financial audit commitment; 3. other circumstances specified in the applicable auditing standards and/or in other regulations, in the case of audit commitments other than statutory financial audit and audit-related services and not provided to undertakings of public interest; in such cases the registered auditor shall document all circumstances justifying the early exemption. (3) In the event of early release or refusal of execution of a statutory financial audit undertaking, the audited entity and the registered auditor shall notify the Commission and the IED in writing within 7 days of the exemption or of the refusal, indicating the reasons therefor. In the event of a compulsory financial audit of a financial statement of an undertaking of public interest in the same order, the relevant authorities with regulatory and supervisory powers in respect of the activity of the audited entity shall also be notified. (4) Where a compulsory financial audit of a financial statement of an undertaking of public interest is found to have a valid reason under para. 2, p. 1, the partners representing 5 per cent or more of the voting rights or the capital of the audited entity, as well as the Commission, may file an action for early exemption from the commitment of the registered auditor. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50, by offering in para. 2 the word "supplier" shall be replaced by the "supplied enterprise"; in para. 3 the word "the undertaking" to be replaced by the undertaking under review and the words "the undertaking" to be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u25	Statements, honourable Members, by the name of Part Two, Chapter Five, art. 44-50 included? I won't. We vote on the name of Part Two by importer, the name of Chapter Five by importer, art. 44-50, 44 in Commission version, 45, 46 and 47 by importer, 48, 49 and 50 in Commission version. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u26	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 2, p. 4 of the substation: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the 1. 7 is amended as follows: "7." an opinion on whether the activity report corresponds to the financial statements for the same financial year and whether it has been drawn up in accordance with the applicable legal requirements; 2. create a new t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. a statement as to whether there are cases of material false presentation in the report on the activity of the audited entity and the nature of the false presentation; 3. the remaining points are renumbered. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 51: "Instruction of the results of financial audit carried out Art. 51. (1) The registered auditor shall submit the results of the financial audit carried out in an audit report. (2) The audit report shall be drawn up in writing according to the applicable auditing standards. (3) In the case of compulsory financial audit, the audit report shall comply with the requirements of para. 2, containing at least the following: 1. addressee/addresses; 2. the date of drawing up; 3. the name of the entity whose financial statement is the subject of the financial audit; the specification of the type of financial statement, the date and period covered; an indication of the accounting base that was applied in its preparation; 4. a description of the financial audit which shall at least specify the applicable audit standards in accordance with which it has been carried out; 5. an audit opinion which may be unmodified, qualified or negative and clearly expresses the opinion of the registered auditor as to whether the financial statement gives a true and fair view in accordance with the applicable accounting base and meets the legal requirements, where applicable, or a refusal of opinion, if the registered auditor cannot express an audit opinion; 6. other issues to which the registered auditor has addressed a paragraph without qualifying the audit opinion; 7. an opinion on whether the activity report corresponds to the financial statements for the same financial year and whether it has been drawn up in accordance with the applicable legal requirements; 8. a statement whether there are cases of material false presentation in the report on the activity of the audited entity and the nature of the false presentation; 9. a finding of any material uncertainty relating to events or conditions that may raise serious doubts about the entity's ability to continue its activity as an active undertaking; 10. address of correspondence for a natural person, or address of management for a company referred to in the register referred to in art. 20. (4) In the case of compulsory financial audit of a financial statement of an undertaking of public interest, the audit report shall comply with the requirements of para. 3 as well as where applicable to the requirements of art. 10 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. (5) Where the financial audit has been carried out jointly by more than one registered auditor, the statutory auditors shall agree on the results of the financial audit and submit a general audit report and audit opinion. In the event of disagreement, each registered auditor shall submit its audit opinion in a separate paragraph of the audit report and indicate the reason for the disagreement. (6) The statutory financial audit report shall be certified by: 1. the name of the registered auditor, his personal signature and his professional stamp, where the financial audit has been carried out directly by the registered auditor as a natural person or through the trading company through which the audit profession is exercised; 2. the name of the firm, the name and the personal signature of the representing and the professional stamp of the audit firm, as well as the name and personal signature of the registered auditor responsible for the audit on behalf of the audit firm, where the financial audit has been carried out by the audit firm. (7) Where the statutory financial audit has been carried out jointly by more than one registered auditor, the audit report shall be certified by: 1. the name of the registered auditor, his/her personal signature and his/her professional stamp for each registered auditor involved in carrying out the joint audit as a natural person; 2. the name of the company, the name and the personal signature of the representing and the professional stamp of the company, as well as the name and personal signature of the registered auditor responsible for the audit on behalf of the company responsible for each company participating in the joint audit. (8) The statutory financial audit report of a consolidated financial statement shall comply with the requirements of para. 1-6. Where reporting on compliance between the activity report and the financial statement is required pursuant to art. 45, para. 2 at group level within the meaning of § 1, t. 2 of the additional provisions of the Accounting Act, the registered auditor shall express an opinion on the compliance of the consolidated financial statement and the consolidated activity report. (9) In the event of a mandatory financial audit, the personal signature and the professional seal of the registered auditor shall be placed on the audit report and on each of the elements of the annual financial statement, except for the application, in accordance with the applicable accounting base for which the opinion is expressed. "Financial audit of other financial information" art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u27	Under art. 51 and 52 speeches? I won't. Vote art. 51 in the version of the Commission and Article 51 in the version of the Commission 52 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u28	"Chapter 6" - Additional requirements for carrying out mandatory financial audit of financial statements. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u29	Thank you. Let's stop here, because in the next article, there are several proposals. Statements by the name of Chapter Six and Article 6. 53? We are voting on the name of Chapter Six by importer, supported by the Commission and Article 6. 53 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u30	Article 54. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: Independence and conflict of interest Art. 54. (1) The registered auditor and any natural person who is able to directly or indirectly influence the outcome of the statutory financial audit must be independent of the audited entity and not participate in the decision-making process. The requirement for independence shall be respected at least during the period covered by the audit financial statements and during the period during which the financial audit takes place. (2) The registered auditor shall take the necessary precautions to ensure that, when carrying out the financial audit, its independence is not affected by an existing or potential conflict of interest or by an economic or other type of direct or indirect relationship. Those requirements shall also apply to: 1. its audit network, where applicable, and 2. all persons working for him or under his control, or who are directly or indirectly linked to him through a relationship of control. (3) The registered auditor shall not carry out a mandatory financial audit if an objective, reasonable and informed third party could conclude, taking into account the safeguards applied by him, that his independence is compromised by the existence of a risk of checking his own business, having his own interest, advocacy, close relationship or threat, as a result of financial, personal, economic, employment or other relationship between: 1. it, its audit network and any natural person able to influence the outcome of the audit, and 2. the audited entity. (4) The registered auditor shall reflect in the audit work papers all material threats to his independence, as well as the measures applied to mitigate the effects of those threats. (5) The registered auditor shall not participate in any mandatory financial audit or influence its results in any way if: 1. hold financial instruments of the audited entity other than shares held indirectly through diversified collective investment schemes; 2. hold financial instruments of an undertaking related to the audited entity, the holding of which may give rise or be perceived as a conflict of interest and which are different from shares held indirectly through diversified collective investment schemes; 3. has been in employment or economic or any other relationship with this audited entity during the periods in para. 1 such relations may arise or be perceived as a conflict of interest. 4. there is a circumstance under item 1-3 for a spouse or relative by rights or by line to the second degree including, or persons associated with, the registered auditor. (6) The persons under para. 2 do not require or accept gifts or services in the form of money or other form from the audited entity or from any other entity related to an audited entity, unless an objective, reasonable and informed third party would consider that their value is negligible or unconventional. (7) When in the periods referred to in para. 1 The audited entity shall be acquired by another, merged or acquired by another undertaking, the registered auditor shall establish and assess all previous or current interests or relationships with that undertaking, including services other than those provided to that undertaking that could compromise its independence and the possibility to continue carrying out a statutory audit after the date of conversion. At the earliest opportunity and at the latest within three months of the date of the conversion, the registered auditor shall take the necessary steps to put an end to all current interests and relationships that could compromise his independence and, where possible, take measures to minimise any threat to his independence arising from past or present interests and relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u31	Thank you. Article 54. Statements? I won't. Vote art. 54 in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u32	Article 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55, by offering in para. 1, t. 4 the words of his servants and all others shall be replaced by all of them; and 5 words to be replaced by financial audit functions; in para. 2 the words of the servants and of the others shall be replaced by the words of the servants. Article 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56, by offering in para. 1 the words "spend enough time and set aside enough" to be replaced by "supplied enough time" and "supplied enough time"; in para. 5 words under art. 10 and 11 shall be replaced by the................................................................................................. 10 and 11; in para. 7 after the words "Registered auditor" to be added to "create and"; in para. 8 the word "special" to be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u33	Thank you. Under art. Art. 55 and art. 56 are there any speeches? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 55 and art. 56 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u34	Article 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57 by offering in para. 8 sentence 3 to be amended as follows: "When audit working documents cannot be provided by the auditor by the third country, the auditor of the group shall certify through his documentation that he has taken the necessary steps to obtain access to those documents and, in the case of a reason other than the reason relating to the third country's legislation, evidence of its existence shall be included in the documentation.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u35	Under art. 57 and 58 speeches? There aren't any. Vote art. 57 in the version of the Commission and Art. 58 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u36	Chapter supposed financial audit of the financial statements of public-interest enterprises. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u37	Thank you. Statements of Chapter 7, art. Art. 59, Art. 60? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Chapter 7 by importer, supported by the Commission, art. 59, supported by the Commission, art. 60, supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u38	Article 61 "The proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 61: Report to a competent supervisory authority Art. 61. (1) A registered auditor carrying out a statutory financial audit of a public-interest entity shall, within 7 days of the date of the audit report, notify in writing the competent authority supervising that undertaking, as well as the Commission, of any information about that undertaking which it has established when carrying out the statutory financial audit and which has caused or may cause one of the following consequences: 1. a material breach of the regulatory provisions which determine the conditions for licensing or which govern, in particular, the implementation of activities of the undertaking in the public interest; 2. significant threat or substantial doubt concerning the continuation of the undertaking's activities in the public interest; 3. refusal of audit opinion, negative or qualified audit opinion under art. 51, para. 3, p. 5. (2) The registered auditor shall also communicate any information corresponding to the information referred to in para. 1 which it has established when carrying out a compulsory financial audit of an undertaking which is closely linked to the undertaking of public interest audited by it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62, by offering in para. 1, t. 2 letters (b) and (c) shall be replaced by a natural person (s) and the words (s) shall be deleted from the auditor's network.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u39	Thank you. Statements under Articles 61 and 62? There aren't any. Vote art. Article 61 in the version of the Commission and Article 61 in the version of the Commission 62 in the version of the Commission. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u40	Article 63 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 63: Information provided to the Commission Art. 63. (1) A registered auditor carrying out a mandatory financial audit of a financial statement of an undertaking of public interest shall provide the Commission annually with at least: 1. a list of public-interest undertakings audited by it with information on revenue received from them; the information shall be divided into revenue from: (a) statutory audit; (b) services other than auditing and other than those referred to in art. 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 which is required by the law of the European Union or by the Bulgarian legislation; (c) services other than auditing and other than those referred to in art. 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 which is not required by European Union law or by Bulgarian law. 2. a list of all services provided to the audited undertakings by the members of the audit network where the registered auditor is a member of an audit network. (2) The conditions, form and procedure for providing the information under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules laid down in Article 1. 71, para. 3rd. 3. Article 64 s a proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 64: Forbidden services Art. 64. (1) For a registered auditor who carries out a mandatory financial audit of a financial statement of an undertaking of public interest, the provisions of art. 5 paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The registered auditor may provide the services referred to in art. Paragraph 5 (1) (b) is replaced by the following: point 2 (a) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1. the services shall not affect or have minor influence, either individually or in general, on the audited financial statements; 2. the assessment of the impact on the audited financial statements is documented and fully explained in the additional audit committee report; 3. The registered auditor shall comply with the requirements of independence. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply to the persons referred to in Article 1. 54, para. 1 and 2 as well as for spouses or relatives by rights or by cross-border to the second degree including, or persons associated with, the registered auditor. (3) The registered auditor and the persons under para. 2 may provide the authorised under para. 1 services outside the mandatory financial audit following the approval of the audit committee, of which the registered auditor shall notify the Commission in writing within 7 days of the date of receipt of the approval.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u41	Thank you. Articles 63 and Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, art. 63 in this law is the transposition of Regulation 537 of the European Commission. The importer has very correctly translated the text, and I would like to draw attention here to the fact that.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Only a week ago I had the opportunity to comment on this text, in particular. 63, para. One, and the addition made. I would like to point out to you that in art. 14 does not have the word, which is supplemented by a proposal of the respected Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, at least. Why has this word not been added to both the European Union and the Regulation? The answer is very simple. Firstly, adding the expression at least means creating an opportunity for illegal actions, not to say a heavier word, which they have taken into account in the European Commission itself. When you put the least, the question remains open: and the most what, the most what information? A designated employee shall be given the opportunity to speculate with the words at least and to request information from the auditor, which he simply cannot provide, and then impose sanctions on him because he has not provided that information. Moreover, when you delegate powers to the least, I repeat: at least this means excluding an important body from the form and possibility of an investigation, namely the prosecution. The addition of the words at least in para. 1 of art. 63 after the word "Commission" practically instead of turning the law into really European, into a law in force, subject to the possibilities and cases that we had in the near past, especially with the Corporate Commercial Bank, when we had to rely on the prosecution to carry out these investigations, with the addition of the words "at least" we exclude the prosecution from the possibility to investigate and to require the relevant information necessary for the needs of the investigation. Once again: only a week ago, I had a discussion on this matter in Brussels with experts from the Committee on Economics and Monetary Affairs. My suggestion is that the words "at least" shall be dropped and remain the correct text of the importer, which carries exactly art. 14 of Regulation 537 as texts. To have the opportunity to carry out an effective investigation with all the legal means available by law to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, and not to exclude it from the process with the expression "at least" and to allow for some inappropriate practices that this text allows to happen. Colleagues, I ask you to support my proposal to support the correct text of the importer, which does not contain at least the words of the Committee in para. 1 and make a really good law, which is necessary for the Bulgarian audit, Bulgarian business and Bulgarian society. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal for editing in the text of art. 63, para. 1 "After the word "the commission" the words "at least" shall be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Your proposal will be voted on. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u44	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we discussed these cases quite thoroughly at the Commission meeting as well as with all interested parties. You didn't make a suggestion on this article. Of course, you have the right to do so in the Chamber, but this is not at all an editorial proposal, even though it is only the term of at least. Indeed, in the regulation, the phrase "the least' does not exist, but it lays down in practice the minimum requirements that can be applied. If we restrict these powers, this means that the Commission will not be able to require even one reference further. At the end of the day, I think it's appropriate that we do checks, not restrict rights, but, on the contrary, give people the opportunity to do their job quality. We must not forget that the Commission is also in contact with other European authorities with which information needs to be exchanged. Upon their request, we must give the Commission such an opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u45	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yordanova, yes, we commented on these texts in the Commission, but about a month ago approximately. I didn't have the information I received a week ago in Brussels. I have not been able to comment with other institutions, as you yourself have said, yes, the Commission has the opportunity and it is good to communicate; we as MPs also have the opportunity to communicate and it is good to exchange such information. I am grateful that you have correctly confirmed that the expression "at least" does not exist in art. 14 of Regulation 537. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the regulation has an imperative effect on national legislation. It can be changed into a stricter regime. The point here, however, is that we are not going to a stricter regime. We do not restrict the Commission. I therefore said that the text of the importer is extremely correct. However, we are limiting the possibility of carrying out an effective investigation with the prosecution, that is, some information may be required, which would be better required by the prosecution, so that it is not accidentally scattered, and I do not want to go into details and give information on how the audits were carried out. At the time, the Commission had even stricter powers. You know what kind of audits some CCB audit firms have done, and as a result of these audits, what happened. That's why I want to prevent such a new possibility of abuse. I think we have the same thinking, the same approach?! Once again: the correct text is the word at least a little bit to fall. In this way, we allow all authorities involved in an investigation to participate in the investigation and not to be excluded purely by the addition of the words at least a little. After all, this will be decided by the Members of the National Assembly, but I was obliged to introduce you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u47	Of course. There's a vote coming up. Mr. Tarnovalyski to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been an incorrect reading of the text as a Commission proposal. Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for inserting the words that have been commented is that they should be after the Committee, which means that the following information remains. That wasn't read. You can check it out. With regard to the proposal to provide information at least what is defined by the Regulation and the ambiguity of what else. Today we are proposing and voting on a new law on independent financial audit. The Commission does not know what information is necessary to be included as requirements in the Law. Therefore, such texts are proposed and it has nothing to do with what Mrs. Yordanova tried to explain here that if you see, this is information required by European or other authorities. When such information is required, it is clear what it is and who it is. Let's write it here, in the Law, in order to vote clearly and correctly what the auditors will have to provide. I guess the Commission doesn't know what that information is. I propose that we do not vote on this change at least and when the Commission makes it clear, if there is a need for additional information, this is done in the appropriate order by changing the Law. Let us not allow ambiguities in a new law that is very important and we are voting today. An attempt was made to change and para. 2 in this Law, stating that the terms and conditions of the requested information will be determined by the rules of art. 71, para. 2, p. 3 which, in turn, says this article that the Commission adopts rules under art. 31. This article refers us to another provision and is ultimately a complete ambiguity of what we want to say. We clearly say that the Commission will work with its sub-normative acts, rules that will be issued, signed and for which we will not have any information. That is why I support the proposal made by my colleague Bajraktarov to be made in accordance with art. 81, editing proposals from the Commission text and the words to be dropped at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u49	You are not making a new proposal, but confirming what Mr. Bayraktarov has done. Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Other speeches, honourable Members, under art. 63 and 64? I won't. First of all, we vote on the proposal of the MP Mr. Bajraktarov in the version of art. 63, para. 1 words at least shall be dropped at the end of the sentence. Please vote. 70 MPs voted: 21, against 18, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the texts of art. 63 and 64 as amended by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u50	Procedure for separate voting of the two members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u51	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal that the two articles be voted separately, as there is a danger that they will not be accepted both, and we agree with the text in Article. 62, but we disagree with the wording of art. 63. I've already set the groundwork. Therefore, I ask that we vote separately, as with art. 62 we agree, but with the wording of art. 63 in this way we disagree.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u53	Is there a reverse offer? Articles 63 and 64 separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u54	For art. Art. 64, we agree on art. We're not 63. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u55	Is there a counteroffer? I won't. I think there's a good reason we're voting on both terms separately. So we vote on the wording of art. 63, as amended by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 66 against 7, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 64...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u56	No, we vote art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u57	We just voted Art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u58	And the procedure when did we vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u59	I accepted your procedure without voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u60	Revoting! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u61	Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure for art. 63, since many of the colleagues did not understand that Article 63 was being voted on. 63. I call for an abstention to be voted on by the Commission. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u63	We are voting for the Commission's version of art. 63. Cancel the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] I repeat once again: we are voting on the text of art. 63 in the version of the Commission. If there's any trouble with the gym this time, we'll run a name check. Voting mode. Vote 81 MPs: 64 against 8, abstention 9. The proposal is not accepted because of the lack of one vote. Please, name check. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Okay, since we've discussed this, we're voting on the text in art. 64. We shall vote on the wording of art. 64 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Colleagues, we're in voting mode. The President may request verification at any time, so after that vote I will decide whether to do a roll call check. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposal of the text under art. 64 is accepted. I'm asking for a roll call list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u64	If we don't have a quorum, there will be no parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u65	Ten-thirty-time break. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u66	I hear lines from the hall that it's time for a break. Maybe we should call this break. [[Radio.]] Holiday till 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u67	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 30 September to 6 October 2016: A question was received from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science,... [[Relations between MPs from GERB and BSP LB.]] Can I get some order in the hall? Mr. Georgiev, can we get order in this room? ...about a policy to overcome the personnel problem in the education system. The reply should be made in writing by 14 October 2016. A question was received from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov, Metodi Andreev, Grozdan Karadzhov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov to Vezhdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, on the progress in the policy of the Ministry of Culture with regard to the introduction of the competition for all positions in the office system. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 October 2016. Written answers: - from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question by the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Radoslav Stoychev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Zhelev; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - by the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev. Here you are, dear Mrs. Ninova, for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The speaker of the group is Cornelia Nino, the People's Representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday it was understood that with his decision to replace the application for UN Secretary General Boyko Borisov served foreign interests and betrayed Bulgaria. Let's see, confused in his failure, how he himself confirmed these words of ours and self-destructed. First he said, "We had information that Irina Bokova would receive a veto. We received letters from other countries requesting the promotion and support of Kristalina Georgieva. Mr. Prime Minister, which foreign countries imposed on you Kristalina Georgieva and since when do foreign countries define Bulgaria's decisions?! Second, what Mr. Borisov said: When we saw that Irina Bokova had no chance, we decided to change it. Why did others, respecting themselves and their peoples, prime ministers not change their candidates, although they have no chance, and only Bulgaria became a relic to the world?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u69	We were told he didn't stand a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u70	Third: Irina Bokova was insolent and did not withdraw. Mr. Borisov, after yesterday's betrayal, every Bulgarian who has the courage to tell you is not a pushover, but a patriot! [[Extreme applause from BSP LB.]] Fourth: We will not give another four years to a communist. We ask if the reason for the withdrawal is a communist past, you, Mr. Borisov, on what basis are you ruling the state? [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Were you not a member of the BCP and when you had to choose between your favorite Ministry of Interior and Fire Department or your membership in the BCP, you abandoned the Fire Department and your favorite Ministry of Interior to remain a party member? On what grounds, if the communist past is important, are you raising another person with a communist past? On what grounds do you make a former party secretary of the BCP president? The first downfall of human dignity is to deny your past, your family, your family, and your father. Whoever has taken this first step will also take the second step to deny your history and homeland! And this is how this is happening right now. Two weeks ago, BSP left Bulgaria presented information that the government is preparing a permanent settlement of refugees in Bulgaria to solve our demographic problem. By the way, for the first time this sentence was delivered by Kristalina Georgieva. We asked questions: who decided it, when, where, why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u71	But under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u72	Then they jumped from GERB and now also say: this is not true, and you personally called me a liar. And now you're saying it. [[Noise and lines.]] Come on, now let's see who's lying, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u73	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u74	Dear Bulgarians, we are addressing you! On 12 August 2016, in closed session, perhaps to hide it from you, the government of Boyko Borisov accepted this decree No 208 [[shows decree]] . It says the following: The Mayor of the municipality organizes the reception and housing of the foreigner and his family; provides material or financial assistance to meet basic domestic needs of the foreigner and the members. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u75	Please don't call from the spot. Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u76	He is listed in the register of the population of Bulgaria; he applies for the issue of Bulgarian personal documents. He selects a personal doctor; he registers him at the Bureau of Labour; he provides compulsory pre-school training for the children and compulsory school training for the students; he pays health insurance for every person for whom he has an agreement on integration. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Whoo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u77	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u78	He has received training in Bulgarian and provides him with monthly support for children enrolled in the training groups. Mrs. Bachvarova... No, before that Mr. Goranov, when we asked him in writing whether the Bulgarian budget provided funds for these costs, here is the written answer. [[Shows the document.]] It's a complete lie! Because he says, "In the central budget of the state there is no estimated funds for the same. For these measures! However, this decree of the Council of Ministers states, ladies and gentlemen, that the money will come from European funds and national funding. Is this the 160 million you are proud of, the European funds paid to Bulgaria to turn us into a refugee camp? [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Whoo!"]] Where in the national budget did you plan to pay health insurance to Bulgarian unemployed persons to pay to foreigners? Where are the equal rights of Bulgarian citizens with refugees?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u79	Lies! Lies!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u80	Yesterday we ask Mrs. Bachvarova what this is about and she tells us: "The whole process will be financed by the European Commission well enough within two years. "This is the common European policy" said the Deputy Prime Minister of the State. We respect European and Euro-Atlantic values. Bulgaria's future is in the European family. But above the common European policy we place Bulgaria, the Bulgarian national interest and the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens! We ask, when you made this decision, gentlemen ruling, did you ask the Bulgarian people whether they agreed? Did you at least ask those who voted to send you here because no one can speak on behalf of the entire people, whether they sent you to take such decisions? [[noise and lines]] To replace the national identity...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u81	Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u82	...to solve the demographic crisis with a permanent settlement of refugees? Did you ask your people and those who sent you here? And because I don't want to speak on behalf of all the people [[noise and lines]] I speak on behalf of those over half a million Bulgarians who sent the BSP left Bulgaria to represent them. We don't want that policy! And we will oppose such a policy! [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]] And although I cannot speak on behalf of the entire people, we address the entire people on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria: Don't let this government continue to take away our dignity and erase our nationality! Bulgarians, whatever you are - red, blue or neutral - the time has come to be Bulgarians. Don't give Bulgaria! [[Loud applause from the BSP LB and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u83	Order, please! We're not at a convention or in a theater room. [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]] If there is no order in this Chamber, I'm warning you. [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]] I'm warning you, if there's no order in this room, I'm calling this meeting off! Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I'd like to congratulate you on still getting your parliamentary group together for another dose of lies to serve here. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Omission!" by BSP LB.]] As far as I know in the Bulgarian language, those who lie are called liars. [[Voices "Omission!" and banging on the banks of BSP LB.]] And exactly what you're doing is lying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u85	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u86	And you'd do better than anything. [[Voices "Omission!" and banging on the banks of BSP LB.]] We asked the Bulgarian citizens for their opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u87	Order, please! I'm adjourning the parliamentary session for today! Next session on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u88	And their opinion was seen in the last election.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-07.u89	You have no say in this, Mr. Georgiev. [[National Representative Georg Georgiev continues to speak.]] I'm adjourned. Next session on Wednesday at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
