ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I suggest to your attention the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 10 to 12 February 2016: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development. Importer: Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer: Council of Ministers. 4. The first vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on the Civil Service Officer is a number of bills. The first is with importers Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, the others are from Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, the Council of Ministers and the National Representative Velizar Enchev. 5. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. Importer: Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Research. Importers: Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. There are several ratifications to follow. 9. A bill for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Basin, as well as in the overseas countries and territories and territories and of the Agreement on the administration of the pro-financing between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the EFTA States of Croatia, the EFTA States of Latvia and the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the Republic of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. Draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer: Council of Ministers. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. A bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Southeast European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, at its usual starting hour 11:00 p.m. Please vote. Voting 137 MPs: 123 against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received two proposals. The first at the time was by Mr. Petar Slavov from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, which proposes the inclusion of two bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Civil Service Officer, the one submitted by him and a group of MPs, and the one submitted by the Council of Ministers. We have just voted to include not only these two bills in our weekly programme, but also the three remaining bills currently pending on the agenda, so this proposal has already been respected. The second proposal is from Mr. Mikov and Mr. Vigenin. President and Secretary of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria, which propose that a draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation should be included as a point, No 554-02-102 of 8 December 2015 with importers Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Who will present the proposal? Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable MPs, the conflict in Syria and the development of relations between the Russian Federation, the European Union, NATO require a review and change of the sanctions regime imposed for the travel of MPs from the Russian Duma. The point of this proposal is to increase the possibility of interparliamentary dialogue. It is obvious that the policy of sanctions did not work at all. It is also obvious that without contacts between the parliaments, the representatives of the respective parliaments of the Russian Federation and the countries of the European Union, without finding a parliamentary dialogue, it will be increasingly difficult for the parties to face global challenges, including terrorism, in this complex situation. This issue is already being dealt with in many European parliaments. I think it will be a good signal to discuss and adopt the decision to engage the government and with parliamentary support for dropping sanctions on the travels of MPs from the Russian Federation, representatives in the state Duma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u3	Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal made to include this draft decision in our weekly programme. They voted 144 MPs: 42, against 39, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Messages on the submitted bills and draft decisions for the time from 3 to 9 February 2016: A bill on real estate loans to consumers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importers "Peter Slavov" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill amending the Law on pre-school and school education. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 1 of the Structural Programme Loan Agreement (Bulgaria, co-financing under the EU Funds 2007-2013) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It will also be seen by the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valetta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 8 February 2016, the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly received information about the state of the Bulgarian Republic's debt at the end of 2015. The information is provided to the National Assembly on a quarterly basis, according to a decision from the Council of Development meeting at the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. By my letter the material was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. On 9 February 2016 in the National Assembly with IC. No 627-00-1 received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give a decision to provoke prosecution against the MP Ivan Nikolov Mihovski. The same was done on the occasion of a prosecutor's file No 20163 from 2015 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for a crime committed by him under art. 342, para. Point (b) of Article 1 in conjunction with point (b) of Article 2 (1) in conjunction with point (c) of Article 2 (1) 342, para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 9 February 2016, I informed the MP Ivan Mihovski of the request and the opportunity to meet him and the attached materials. With an application from the same day "February 9, 2016, the People's Representative Ivan Mihovski informed me that he agreed to arouse criminal prosecution against him at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By my letter of 9 February 2016, I informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Ivan Mihovski to arouse prosecution against him at the request, and a certified copy of Mr Mihovski's application was attached. The National Statistical Institute received materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing results from statistical studies on consumer surveillance and information for December 2015 on the following indicators: indexes of turnover in the Section of "Retails', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles; indexes of industrial production; indexes of construction production. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are moving to the first point of our program, namely: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGIOAL DEVELOPMENT. A report came in from the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, Second Voting Report. The Law on Regional Development is amended and supplemented by the Law on Regional Development. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. § 1 to § 8 including no proposals. The Commission shall support the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u5	Colleagues, speeches on the name and paragraphs 1 to 8 including? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the bill, as well as paragraphs 1 to 8 inclusive. We vote. Vote 139 MPs: 131, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u6	Under Paragraph 9, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a The following amendments and additions shall be 1. In para. 1 the words "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Planning" and the words "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Strategic planning" and "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Planning" and "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Strategic planning" and "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Strategic planning" and "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Strategic planning" and "Strategic planning" shall be replaced by "Strategic 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "strategic planning' shall be replaced by "strategic planning'; (b) point 4 is repealed. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The documents referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 shall be in hierarchical coherence and shall be developed for up to 15 years, with the exception of the technical infrastructure elements in which they are planned for up to 30 years. (4) Sectoral strategic documents at national and regional level shall be developed in accordance with the documents in force under para. 2. From § 10 to § 33, the Commission shall support the texts of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u7	Statements referred to in paragraphs 9 Until 33? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u8	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I am referring to § 33, which provides for the cancellation of art. 25 of the old Law. In practice, the creation of a Single Information System is terminated. We in the Patriotic Front believe that the Information System is essential for the Regional Development Act, because this is precisely about the unity of the regions and a link between regional development in the country. That's why we think the old art. 25 must remain in the Law. The importer's motives were that this Information System would be provided for in another law, only in the Transitional and Final Regulations I did not see anywhere that it would be added to another law. Since it is currently not in the Transitional and Final Provisions, we propose that the Single Information System for the Law on Regional Development be maintained and provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u9	Thank you. In essence, you propose that § 33 by importer be rejected. If the paragraph is rejected, it shall remain art. 25. Replices, coworkers? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Atanasov, you are a member of the Committee on Regional Policy. This is an active article of the Law, dated 26 November 2011, or for three and a half years. There is no representative of the Regional Ministry here, we MPs, never really understood whether this system was built, is it active because it is about effective governance and, most importantly, about the publicity of government. If it is built, I do not understand the reasons for which you are talking about why it should be closed with the cancellation of art. 25. I would ask you to answer: has this information been provided to the Commission when it examined the Bill? If the system wasn't built, why wasn't it built? Has money been spent on its construction? In the years we have information about several hundred million leva invested in electronic government. So if you have information, since there is no representative of the Ministry, at least give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u11	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u12	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, fellow MPs! This information, specifically for art. 25, was not submitted to the Commission. But I would like to clarify something in the motives of the entire Bill presented by the Council of Ministers. Specially for art. 25 It said that this system would be provided for by another law. However, here we see that in the Transitional and Final Provisions is not provided for that is the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u13	Any other speeches? Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u14	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! In existing art. 25 it is written that for the effective and efficient management of regional development and the provision of publicity and transparency at all levels in the implementation of planning, financing, monitoring and evaluation of regional development, a single information system for regional development and spatial planning is being established. It includes an integrated information system for strategic planning of regional and local development, an information system for monitoring the implementation of documents for strategic planning of regional development and a number of other documents. In para. 4 is recorded that the annual planning of the funds for the construction, maintenance and operation of the single information system for regional development management and spatial planning is carried out within the framework of the Ministry's programming budget. The law has been in force since 2011. So far, such a system has not been established. We don't have any information on spending money in this direction. It is obvious that the ideas of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works are really in another law or the CID to incarnate these ideas for the creation of such an information system, but it has not been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u15	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 9 in its version of the Commission report and paragraphs 10 to 32 including those by importer and supported by the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 129, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavcho Atanasov's proposal to reject § 33 by importer proposing the cancellation of Art. 25 under the Act in force. They voted 131 MPs: 38, against 26, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u16	Madam President, I want a re-vote. My colleague Kasabov's finger has been wiped clean. I don't know if the system works at all or how it reports because he couldn't vote at all. Secondly, colleagues, we cancel a member who is actually in line with European legislation. Article 25 was introduced by you on 26 November 2012 and allows for publicity and transparency in the field of regional development. I don't understand, you want everything in the dark to happen, because you don't even have a debate. There's not even a debate going on! I'm addressing you. 25 to stay because he's a useful member. The texts in this article allow society to be informed and you yourselves to be informed about how our country is developing in regions. I hope that more people will gather from the opposition so that we can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u17	Revoting, coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u18	You're one of the government, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u19	We vote. Vote 128 MPs: 42, against 31, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 33 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 98 against 13, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." preparation and update of the National Concept of spatial development and spatial development schemes of level 2 and level 3; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. carrying out monitoring and evaluation of regional development and monitoring of the implementation of the National Concept of Space Development and of spatial development schemes of Level 2 and Level 3; 2. The creation of para. 2: Each year the competent authority for the development of strategies and plans under art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 - 4 of the National Concept of spatial development and of the regional spatial development schemes plans the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the activities of development, update, monitoring and evaluation within the budgetary procedure, the funds being provided within the framework of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u21	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 34, as by the importer for paragraphs 35 to 41, including. Please vote. They voted 123 MPs: 120, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 34 to 41 of the Commission report have been adopted. Please proceed with the "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u22	"Transitional and final provisions." In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division, namely. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44: ..................................................... In the Water Act (prom., SG...): In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198c the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u23	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division, which shall be edited by the Commission after its support, and shall read as follows: Please vote. Vote 119 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 3. The name of the section "Concluding provisions', as well as paragraphs 42 to 45, including on the Commission's report, have been adopted and thus the Draft at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: The Council of Ministers adopted on 23 December 2015 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria ("the Council of Ministers') adopted Decision The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u24	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 27 January 2016, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. In the Commission's work took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Dobrinka Pavlova, Director of the Directorate of Organic Agriculture and Plant Industry, Georgi Ralchev, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Market Measures and Organizations of Producers and Diana Fileva, Head of Legal Consult at the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service, from the Ministry of Economy: Luben Petrov Deputy Minister, and experts; from the Ministry of Finance: Desislava Trifonova. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Petrov, who pointed out that by 20 May 2016 our country should bring national legislation into line with European Union law in the field of production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. In this regard, the following major changes are proposed: A whole new chapter is introduced which regulates the obligations of manufacturers and importers of new tobacco products. They should notify six months in advance the Ministry of Economy of any new tobacco product they intend to place on the market and provide it with a detailed description, instructions for use, information on ingredients and emissions, research results and others. The second group of changes are related to the regulation of ingredients and the emissions of cigarettes. The maximum levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide in the products and their measurement methods shall be determined. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products should provide the Institute with information on all ingredients, quantities used and the grounds for their inclusion, toxicological data and data on emission measurement methods. The powers and duties of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products in relation to the preservation, publication of the information and notification to the European Commission are described. For certain additives in cigarettes and hand-crinking tobacco included in the priority list, manufacturers and importers will be required to carry out extended studies that will be notified to the European Commission. In addition, they will be obliged to submit to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco all their research related to market research, the preferences of different consumer groups, as well as information on sales volumes by trademarks, types, quantities and others. A ban is introduced on the presentation, supply and sale of cigarettes and tobacco for the manual contraction of cigarettes of characteristic taste-flavoured qualities and containing additives such as vitamins, caffeine, colouring properties for emissions and others. The third group of changes are related to the labelling and packaging of the products. A detailed regulation of health warnings to be placed on each consumer and every external packaging of tobacco products shall be introduced. The requirements concerning their content, shape, size, font and design by type of products and types of packaging shall be determined. A number of restrictions are introduced with regard to indications that promote or promote the use of the tobacco product, give the wrong impression of its characteristics and health consequences, which imply that it benefits health and others. The requirements for the appearance of consumer packaging of tobacco products, their form, method of closing, the material from which they are made, and their content are described. The user packaging shall be required to place a protective element and to be marked with a unique identifier allowing full traceability of the device. Economic operators involved in trade in tobacco products along the chain from the manufacturer to the first retail outlet should maintain detailed records of all consumer packaging, their movement and any relevant transactions. The necessary equipment allowing data to be recorded for the purchased, sold, stored, transported or subject to other tobacco transactions will be provided by tobacco manufacturers. The data collected should be stored in a data storage facility located in the territory of the European Union in an independent third country whose independence and technical capacity are approved by the European Commission. The activities of the third party will be monitored by an external auditor approved by the European Commission. The requirements concerning the placing on the market, labelling, packaging and health warnings for tobacco products, such as electronic cigarettes and refill containers, shall be introduced into separate chapters of the Bill, respectively, to nicotine-containing liquids and to plant smoking products. A ban is introduced on the promotion and advertising of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. The competent authorities for the identification of infringements, the imposition of administrative penalties and the amount of penalties shall be reviewed. The new concepts are introduced and the existing ones are refined. Transitional and final provisions shall provide for the relevant transitional periods. Tobacco, electronic cigarettes or refill containers and herbal smoking products labelled in accordance with the current regulations will be available on the market until the quantities are exhausted, but not later than 20 May 2017. For the introduction of the protective elements, the marking and traceability system shall be 20 May 2019. In the subsequent discussion by the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria and expressed serious reservations related to some of the concepts in the Bill, especially with regard to the definition of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They raised the issue of the need for consumers to be informed about the possible presence of genetically modified tobacco in the products and called for the clarification of these concepts. The Ministry of Economy recalled that the competent control authorities would have all the information on tobacco products placed on the market and would be able to take appropriate measures if they considered that one of the ingredients poses a danger to people's health. However, given the concerns expressed, they expressed their willingness to make the necessary consultations and between the first and second votes to coordinate a more precise version. Asked a question about the financing of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products, given the large volume of functions assigned to it, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food replied that the Institute is currently implementing a large part of the control mechanisms provided for by the Law. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front said that the Bill regulates matter that has to do with protecting people's lives and health and introduces requirements that will allow consumers to make their informed choices, so it should be supported. The representatives of the branch organizations also supported the proposed changes and called for the rapid adoption of the Bill, given the short deadlines in which they should adapt production capacities to the new requirements. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes, 1 vote against the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, No 502-01-99.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. The next report is from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It will be presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u26	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. At its extraordinary meeting held on 4 February, The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. The meeting was attended by Lyuben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Dobrinka Pavlova, Director of the Directorate of Organic Agriculture and Plant Industry at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, representatives of the CNSB, the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry and the National Association of Tobacco Producers. The draft, submitted by Deputy Minister Luben Petrov, aims to introduce into national legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC and Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a gallery of warnings in the form of images to be used for tobacco products. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act provides for the determination of the maximum level of cigarette emissions of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide and their measurement methods. The manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are intended to provide a list of all ingredients and their quantities used in the manufacture of tobacco products, accompanied by a declaration setting out the reasons for the inclusion of those ingredients in the tobacco products concerned. A ban is introduced on the presentation, supply and sale of cigarettes and tobacco for the manual contraction of cigarettes of characteristic flavour and containing additives such as vitamins, additives with colouring properties for emissions and others. Health warnings to be placed on each consumer packaging and on any outer packaging of tobacco products shall be provided. Requirements on the appearance and content of consumer packaging of tobacco products and requirements on the placing on the market and labelling of certain products related to tobacco products are introduced. A ban is envisaged on commercial communications aimed at promoting them and an obligation to notify the production and import of new tobacco products. The administrative criminal provisions of the Law shall be reviewed in order to avoid identical compositions of infringements and duplication of rights and obligations of the competent authorities as well as the compatibility of sanctions. The Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry supported the Draft and expressed the opinion that it is necessary to adopt it as soon as possible due to the fact that business needs technological time to adapt the products it offers with the regulatory requirements. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................ 11............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. There is no report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Importer of the bill is the Council of Ministers. No representative of the importers. We should move on to debates on the bill. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You have listened to a detailed report by the Committee on Agriculture, which was a leading report on the presented bill. This detailed report shows that we have had a serious discussion on the subject. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Economy is leading. There was a representative at the Commission. We have raised questions that we have been waiting for, but they have not been debated or answered. I was hoping now that during the discussion of the Bill at first reading there would be representatives of the Ministry of Economy who would answer at least some of the issues that were discussed. We accept that the implementation of the two directives is an obligation of Bulgaria, which we must fulfil within the legal deadline, and it is until 20 May, until the Bulgarian legislation must comply with the requirements of the European Commission and the directives. During the discussion, and now I would like to stress to you that we have a number of reasons to be concerned about the proposed bill. If you look carefully at the Bill, you will see the extremely bad translation that has been made on the directives. This bad translation will also create problems for those who will control, in this case, the Ministry of Economy for the Implementation of the Directives, and also for the business that needs to invest in order to be able to meet the requirements of European legislation. I will give some examples relating to the written texts in the Law. For example, the section "New Products of Transport" lays down what are the requirements for those who offer and place them on the market with the relevant documentation. Notice, there is a whole section that says that in addition to these requirements, documents and notifications, and also characteristics, you need to provide available research. What does "available scientific research" mean? Nothing at all! You've read something in some newspaper, someone said something, and we accept that these are the scientific research that will support us for the new product. There are requirements for what is scientific research and what are the results of scientific research. At least they should be published, discussed in some scientific forms to be used in their recognition. The next objection that we have made and have not received an adequate response is for the obligations that are applied and required by the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco products. This institute is within the Agricultural Academy with a very limited budget, but according to the proposed changes the Institute must keep electronic registers, assess the documentation within a specified time limit, assess emissions that are new ingredients in tobacco products. There is nowhere to say who will take up the commitment, which institution, whether the Ministry of Economy, whether the Ministry of Agriculture, to finance these additional commitments, which are assigned to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products for the implementation of the directives. These are the costs that the state must make. They are not only related to the payment of the Fund, which is a fact in most cases as support to the institutes, but this is an apparatus that must be available must be purchased and must be in line with the implementation of the directive, i.e. at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 2017, when these commitments are made. The dispute, which caused large discussions, was related to the transitional and final provisions in which the definitions of concepts were defined. In the Commission's report, it was stressed that The representatives of the Ministry of Economy said that labelling, which is an important part of the directive and occupies nearly 80% of the Bill, will not be described as opposed to food, where you know that European directives require the presence of genetically modified organisms to be recorded on the label, but those who do research on ingredients and emissions will have information. It seems illogical to separate tobacco and tobacco products from other foods from the point of view of the designation, of the presence or not of genetically modified organisms. We believe that this Law is necessary. We will refrain from taking this into account the way in which the written texts in the Bill are presented. Between the first and second reading of the Bill, we will try to make our proposals so that it can be implemented and the directives can be applied. Agree to agree that the signing of a directive leads to the country's commitment to control. If there are no scheduled mechanisms and funds for this, he will remain on paper, which I believe no one in this room wants to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u30	Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Luben Petrov
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u31	Please vote on these names to be admitted to plenary. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. Invited to the court. Mrs. Sultanka Petrova of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill because we are very important to us the new requirements are much stricter, which are placed on the production, cultivation and presentation of tobacco and tobacco products. Indeed, as the colleague Bachvarova said, there was a thorough debate in the Commission related to the supply and, more precisely, the definition in § 27. 4 of tobacco and tobacco products. As you know, from the Patriotic Front we have always stood behind that Bulgaria must be clean of genetically modified organisms. My information shows that for now in our country there is no tobacco production with GMOs, as well as tobacco production with GMOs. I hope that's true! In the end, however, this Bill opens a small loophole that can allow the movement of goods with such genetically modified organisms. We will make our proposals between first and second readings, but today we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. On behalf of the importers, since there were questions, would anyone like to answer? There's no such thing as desire. Mr. Kanev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u34	Colleagues, I will be very brief and I will not go into the topic at all "Genomified products" and the theme "Papakovki" and everything that concerns "if there is lobbying, there is no lobbying. This Law is another European nonsense. This Law burdens businesses and producers with ridiculous requirements that make European goods difficult to compete with American and Chinese. If you read this Law carefully, you will see that it concerns perhaps billions of investments of all packaging manufacturers, of all packaging factories. If you think that all of this is being done to put some pictures in the back of cigarettes, I would very much wonder what the end effect would be. This Law is very much like the law on curly cucumbers or the law on happy chickens. This Law once again proves how far Brussels bureaucracy has led us and how far we will go in the coming years. I am not a Eurosceptic, I voted for Bulgaria in the European Union, but there comes a limit of patience when we, as a government and as a participation in European structures, must show the European Council and the European bureaucracy and administration that we cannot do this endlessly. Then we wonder why every second commodity in the European Union is Chinese or produced in the Far East. Personally, I am a pessimist that between first and second readings we will be able to change something. These are European directives, after which, you all know that we are entering regulations. The truth is this Law is another obstacle from Brussels to European business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u35	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Mr. Rumen Hristov of the Reformation Bloc also asked for the word. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start by saying that with most of the things that my colleague Kanev shared, I agree, but Bulgaria is a member of the European Union anyway and we must comply with the directives that are proposed from there and pursue the deadlines, and the deadline is 20 May. The reformation bloc will support the First Voting Bill and between the first and second votes, the two issues raised by BSP colleagues at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will find their impact. They were connected, and so was Prof. Bachvarova said with the indication of the presence of genetically modified tobacco in cigarettes and the second question concerning the Institute of Tobacco. Professor Bachvarova, I very much hope that when the state entrusts something, it will also provide funds for what it entrusts to be implemented by the Institute of Tobacco, which has an important role in Bulgarian science as a whole. I propose that we support the Bill, and our concerns regarding the two things that have been mentioned by Prof. Bachvarova and at the Commission meeting, find their reflection between the first and second votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Hristov, for making a commitment to pay attention to the comments and proposals made in the Commission. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the discussion. We are now going to vote on the Bill at first reading. Please vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. Vote 97 MPs: 82, against 1, abstention 14. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE AGENCY OF NATIONAL Importer of the Council of Ministers, adopted on the first vote on 14 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u38	Mr. Chairman! On 14 October 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on the State Security Act No 502-01-85, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 14 January 2016. The Law of the State Agency is amended and supplemented by the Law of the State Agency. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u39	Please vote on the name of the Law. They voted 93 MPs: 86, none, abstention 7. The title is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u40	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 11a: Art. 11a. (1) The State Agency shall establish a National Unit for the reception and processing of passenger data in the Republic of Bulgaria by air, hereinafter referred to as the National Unit. (2) The organization of the activities of the National Unit shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. ..................................................... In Chapter 3, Section II is created art. 17 a.m., 17 a.m., 17 a.m., 17 a.m., 17 a.m., 17 a.m., 17 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Chapter 3, Section II is created art. 17a: Art. 17a. The National Unit shall be headed by an official of the State Agency of National Security under the order of the Chair of the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. ............................................ Chapter Six is hereby established. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Chapter 6 is created with art. 42a-42o: ..Chapter 6................................................................................................ Activity of obtaining and processing of passenger booking data in the Republic of Bulgaria carried by air Art. 42a. (1) The National Unit of Art. 11a receives and processes reservation data of passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria carried by air. (2) The obtained data under para. 1 shall be processed only for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences under art. Art. 95-105, Art. Art. 108a, Art. Art. 109, Art. Art. 115, Art. Art. 116, Art. Art. 128, Art. Art. 131, Art. Art. 142, Art. Art. 142a, Art. 143, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 143a, art. 144, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 152, Art. 155, para. 5, t. Art. 1, art. 156, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Art. 158a, Art. 159, para. Art. 4 and 5, Art. Art. 159a-1959, Art. 162, para. Art. 3, Art. Article 172a 199, para. 1, t. Art. 3 and 5, Art. 208, para. Art. 5, art. 213a, para. 2, p. Art. 5, art. 214, para. Art. 2, Art. 216, para. Art. 5, art. 235, para. Art. 4, Art. 242, para. 1 letter (s), "in', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y', "y'. Art. 2 and 3, Art. Article 243-244a Art. 253-254b OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Art. 2, Art. 278a, para. Art. 3, Art. Art. 280, Art. Article 301-305, Art. 307, Art. 307 In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 319a, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 321, Art. Art. 330, Art. Art. 337, Art. Art. 339, Art. 339 Art. 352, Art. Article 353a-353c, Art. Art. 354a. 354c, para. 2 of the Penal Code. (3) The data referred to in art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18 are also processed for border control purposes. Art. 42b. (1) Air carriers shall be obliged, on their own account, alone or through an authorised service provider, to transmit to the National Passengers' Booking Data Unit for all flights to, in or from the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The reservation data under para. 1 shall include: 1. initial code of the passenger file; 2. date of booking/signing of the ticket; 3. planned/planned travel date/dates; 4. names of the passenger, date of birth; 5. address and contact details (phone number, e-mail address); 6. information on payment, including an address for the issue of an invoice; 7. details of the complete route of the intended journey; 8. information about a frequent (regular) traveler; 9. travel agency or travel agent; 10. passenger status of the passenger, including confirmations, registration status, information about the absence of a passenger for a flight or for a non-reserved passenger buying a ticket at the last moment; 11. indications of separation of the passenger file; 12. general remarks (available information for unaccompanied persons under the age of 18.. name, gender, age, spoken language, name and contact details of the guardian on departure and arrival, agent on departure and arrival, etc.) 13. data from the plane ticket (number, date of issue, one-way ticket, tariff); 14. place number of the aircraft; 15. information on the sharing of flight codes; 16. complete information about luggage; 17. number and other names of passengers appearing in the passenger file; 18. all preliminary passenger data collected (type and number of travel document, nationality, country of issue, date of validity, last name, first name, gender, date of birth, air carrier, flight number, date of departure, date of arrival, place of departure, place of arrival, place of departure, time of departure, time of arrival, and total number of passengers carried) and when not stored as part of the passenger reservation data; 19. full history of changes in data under item 19. 1-18. (3) Air carriers shall inform passengers of the transmission of the data under para. 2 of the National Unit in accordance with art. 19th para. 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act. Art. 42c. (1) Air carriers shall transmit the data under art. 42b, para. 2 to the database of the National Unit by electronic means using the protocols and supported formats approved by the International Civil Aviation Organisation or, if impossible, by means of a way guaranteeing data protection between the air carrier and the Agency. (2) The data referred to in art. 42b, para. 2 shall be transmitted to the National Unit as they have been received by the air carriers. (3) The processing of the reservation data of passengers shall be carried out by automatic and non-automatic means, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the international contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. (4) Upon receipt of data other than those specified in art. 42b, para. 2, including data within the meaning of art. 5 of the Personal Data Protection Act, the National Unit deletes them immediately. Art. 42 C.E. (1) Passenger reservation data shall be transmitted to the National Unit 48 hours before the announced take-off time and immediately before the flight. (2) In the event of the presence of evidence of an imminent threat of committing a crime referred to in art. 42a, para. 2, air carriers shall transmit the reservation data to passengers on request and within the time limits set by the National Unit. Art. 42e. (1) The National Unit may compare the data under art. 42b, para. 2 with data contained in the information funds of the Agency, the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency and to process the results obtained. (2) The information funds under para. 1 shall be defined in a joint order of the President of the State Agency of National Security and the relevant Head of State. (3) The order for access to information funds of the Ministry of Interior shall be determined by the instruction under art. 31, para. 3. (4) The order of access to the Information Funds of the Customs Agency shall be determined by a joint instruction of the Chair of the Agency and of the Director of the Customs Agency. (5) The decision of the competent authorities to take measures against a specific person who may have legal or other significant consequences to it may not be based solely on the result of automated processing of passenger reservation data. Any coincidence resulting from automated processing of booking data shall be reviewed separately in an unautomatic manner. Art. 42f. (1) The National Unit shall immediately provide the data under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18 of the Directorate-General of the Border Police of the Ministry of Interior. (2) In the case of matches according to pre-defined criteria, the National Unit shall immediately provide the data under art. 42b, para. 2 and the results of their processing of the following structures according to their competence: 1. The National Counterterrorism Centre; 2. Customs Agency; 3. The General Directorate of Organized Crime at the Ministry of Interior; 4. The Department of Border Police of the Ministry of Interior. (3) The methodology for determining the criteria under para. 2 and the order to provide the data to the National Counter-terrorism Centre shall be determined by instruction of the Chair of the Agency, agreed with the heads of the departments represented at the Centre, subject to the principle of knowledge. (4) The methodology for determining the criteria under para. 2 and the order to provide the data to the structures under para. 2, p. 2-4 shall be determined by a joint instruction of the Chair of the Agency and of the Head of State concerned, subject to the principle of knowing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Art. 42g. (1) Data under art. 42b, para. 2 and the results of their processing may also be provided to the following bodies according to their competence: 1. the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and the court; 2. State Agency "Intelligence"; 3. Customs Agency; 4. The Directorate General of the National Police of the Ministry of Interior; 5. The General Directorate of Organized Crime at the Ministry of Interior; 6. Directorate of the International Operational Cooperation and Cooperation of the Ministry of Interior; 7. the specialized and territorial departments of the State Agency of National Security. (2) Data under art. 42b, para. 2 and the results of their processing shall be provided following a reasoned written request to the National Unit for each particular case, subject to the principle of knowledge................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (3) The request under para. 2 contains information about the period of time, the specific data under art. 42b, para. 2 and/or the results of their processing, the type of crime under art. 42a, para. 2, the legal basis and the deadline for obtaining the data. (4) The request under para. 2 shall be signed by the head of the relevant structure under para. 1 or by an official authorised by him and sent by electronic means or paper to the National Unit. (5) In the event of an imminent threat of committing a crime referred to in art. 42a, para. 2, the request may also be made orally by the person under para. 4. Within 24 hours, the request shall also be made in writing by order of para. 4. (6) If data under art. 42b, para. 2 or the results of their processing to be provided within the time limit specified in the request, the National Unit shall immediately inform the structure under para. 1. (7) The National Unit shall refuse to provide data under art. 42b, para. 2 and the results of their processing if the requirements under para. are not met. 3. In such cases, the National Unit shall inform the structure under paras in writing or electronically. 1, indicating the reasons for the refusal. Art. 42z. (1) After the expiration of three months of the transfer of the reservation data to the passengers by the air carriers, the National Unit shall depersonalise by masking the data under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 17 and 18. (2) Passenger reservations shall be kept by the National Unit for a period of 5 years from the date of their receipt. (3) Within the storage period under para. 2 disclosure of the complete data under para. 1 can be made at the written request of the heads of the structures under art. Art. 42f. In the case of a specific and real threat of committing a crime referred to in Article 42g. 42a, para. 2 or for the purposes of a specific investigation. (4)After the expiry of the term under para. 2 Passenger reservation data, including relevant backups and archives, shall be deleted. Art. 42nd. (1) Structures under art. Art. 42f. Art. 42g. store the data received under art. 42b, para. 2 for a period of 5 years from the date of their receipt in the National Unit, except where a special law provides otherwise. (2) The data referred to in art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18 received in accordance with art. 42f, para. 1 shall be deleted by the competent authorities of the Directorate-General for Border Police at the Ministry of Interior within 24 hours of their receipt, except where they are necessary for the exercise of their powers under law. Art. 42k. Air carriers carrying passengers to and from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall delete the personal data provided under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18 within 24 hours of arrival of the means of transport on the territory of the country. Art. 42L. State Agency "National Security" shall keep a register of the data received under art. 42b, para. 2, of the data provided, of their deletion, of the access made and of the written requests of the structures under art. 42g. Art. 42 meters. (1) The National Unit may provide reservation data to passengers and/or the results of their processing and to competent authorities of other countries only where the following conditions are at the same time: 1. this is necessary for the prevention, detection and prosecution of the crimes referred to in art. 42a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the recipient is competent to carry out activities under c. 1; 3. the recipient provides an adequate level of protection for the planned processing of data. (2) The assessment of the adequacy of the level of protection of personal data shall be carried out by the Commission for the protection of personal data in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. (3) The provision of passenger reservation data and/or the results of their processing to competent authorities of a Member State of the European Union as well as to another Member State of the European Economic Area shall be carried out freely, subject to the conditions laid down in para. 1, t. 1 and 2. Art. 42n. (1) The exercise of the rights of natural persons in relation to the processing of data under art. 42b, para. 2 relating to them, by the National Unit and by the competent structures under art. Art. 42f. 42g is carried out under the terms and conditions of this law and of the Personal Data Protection Act. (2) Passenger reservation data shall be processed by the National Unit and by the competent bodies under art. Art. 42f. 42g in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the regulations on its application. Art. 42o. (1) The control of the protection of the rights of natural persons when processing data under art. 42b, para. 2 relating to them, and when accessing these data shall be exercised by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. (2) Outside the cases under para. 1 The control of the performance of the air carriers under this Chapter shall be carried out by the National Unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u41	Mr. Iankov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u42	Can I just have one clearance procedure in the room?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u43	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u44	Dear Mr. President, please vote to be put to the vote in the Chamber: Mr. Oleg Petkov, Vice-President of the State Agency of National Security, Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Department at the Office of National Security, Mr. Mihail Chilev, Head of the Department of Information Security at the Office of the National Security Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u45	Honourable Members of Parliament, vote for admission to the Chamber of said persons. Vote 82 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 5. They can get into the room. By § 4, Mr. Krasimir Jankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! We, as a political party and a parliamentary group, have tried to pay attention to the ruling majority, that the adoption of this amendment in the State Agency Act In particular, under § 4 in the Commission, I have defended the need for a longer period of data storage. The arguments are many and I am making a concrete technical editorial proposal: in art. 42z, para. The date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be 10 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42nd, para. 1 the period of 5 years also set to be replaced editorialally by 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u47	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. Any other comments on this paragraph? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Let us first vote on Mr. Iankov's proposals to replace the period for storing the data from the five to the ten years. It's 42z, and it's 42z. Please vote on this proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 18, against 30, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on paragraphs 1 to 4, as reported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 80, none, abstention 11. Continue, Mr. Lazarov, with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 134a: Art. 134a. (1) Air carrier which does not provide the National Unit with the data under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 1-17 et seq. 19, is punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 3,000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) An air carrier which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 42c, para. 2, is punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 3,000 to 8000 BGN. (3) Air carrier which does not provide the National Unit with the data under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18 is punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 6 000 to 10 000 BGN. (4) The punishment under para. 3 is also required to an air carrier which provides incomplete or inaccurate data under art. 42b, para. 2, p. 18. (5) Air carrier that provided the National Unit with the data under art. 42b, para. 2 after the expiry of the time limits referred to in art. 42d is punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 3,000 to 8000 BGN. (6) Air carrier that provided the National Unit with the data referred to in art. 42b, para. 2 in formats or in ways other than those referred to in art. 42c, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine, respectively with a penalty of 3000 to 8000 BGN. (7) A fine shall be imposed on the air carrier for a breach of Chapter 6 of this Decision, for which no other penalty is provided, a penalty of 2000 to 6000 BGN shall be imposed on the air carrier. (8) When the infringements under para. 1-6 were remanded, a fine was imposed on the air carrier, respectively a double-size penalty. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135, para. 2 shall be added at the end, either by a person responsible by him or by him. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u49	Are there any statements on the reported paragraphs? I won't. Please vote on paragraphs 5 to 14. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against none, abstentioned 13. Paragraphs 5 to 14 have been adopted. Mr. Lazarov, report to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u50	"Additional provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... This Law introduced the requirements of Council Directive 2004/82/EC of 29 April 2004 on the obligation of carriers to communicate data to passengers (OB, L 261/24 of 6 August 2004).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulations relating to the organisation of the work of the National Unit for the reception and processing of passenger reservation data in the Republic of Bulgaria, by air. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. Within two months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" and the Minister of Interior shall determine the order for the access of the National Unit for obtaining and processing the data of passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, transmitted by air to the information funds of the Ministry of Interior with the instructions under art. 31, para. 3; 2. The Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" and the Minister of Interior and the Director of the Customs Agency shall issue the instructions under art. In the present case, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Art. 4 and art. 42f, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u51	Are there any speeches by § 17? I won't. We are voting on the additional provision. "Concluding provisions" as the name of the sections, paragraphs 15 to 17. 100 MPs voted: 90, none, abstention 10. Those provisions have been adopted. Proceed, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u52	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 18 be rejected as it is reflected in § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u53	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote for the removal of § 18 by importer. Vote 91 MPs: for 82, no objection, abstention 9. The removal of § 18 by importer shall be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u54	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. The Civil Aviation Act (promise, SG...) makes the following additions: 1. Article 5 shall be inserted in Chapter 5. 64c: Art. 64c. Air carriers are required to transmit booking data to the passengers they carry to, in and from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, to the National Unit for the reception and processing of passenger booking data in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air, under conditions and in order laid down by the Law on State Agency. 2. In § 3 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 3 shall be inserted. 72: ..72. The passenger reservation data is a record of the travel requirements of each passenger containing all the information necessary to process and control the booking by the air carriers holding the reservation and by the air carriers involved, for any travel booked by or on behalf of a passenger, whether it is contained in reservation systems, take-off control systems or similar systems with the same functionality. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u55	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting the last two paragraphs on the Commission's report on the version of § 19, which becomes § 18 and the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 19. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 85, none, abstention 12. The bill for amendment and supplement of the State Agency Act was adopted at second reading. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE OFFICER. There are several reports. Mr. Kirilov, please report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u56	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention the First Voting Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Employee No 554-01-60, submitted by Dimitar Tanev Tanev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015 and the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Officer No 554-01-94, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. At its meeting on 11 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above two draft laws by colleague Tanev and Mrs Maya Manolova. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions, Mrs. Nina Rachinska, Head of the Department of Legal and Administrative Services and Human Resources and the Agency for People with Disabilities, Mrs. Mincho Koralski, Executive Director. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-60, submitted by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Dimitar Tanev. The proposed Draft aims at validating the principle of competition for holding positions in the state administration and limiting the possibility of entering a public service without a competition. The main amendments and additions concern three of the grounds provided for in the Act in force for exclusion of the competition beginning of the replacement of an absent civil servant, internal reconciliation and part-time occupation. The project provides for an obligation of the appointing authorities within 30 days from the establishment of a new or the release of office in the administration to announce a contest for its occupation. As regards the taking up of a replacement position (Art. 15 of the Civil Service Act) provides, on the one hand, for an extension of the period of absence, allowing the appointment of a replacement officer from three to six months, and, on the other hand, for an explicit prohibition that the replacement official be reappointed to another post in the same or other administration without a competition. As regards the appointment of office in the part-time administration, it is proposed to introduce a requirement for written reasons for the need for appointment, which may not be for a period of more than three months. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I will ask the Vice-President of the Legal Commission Mrs. Atanasova to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u57	Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is an explicit provision that executive positions in the administration cannot be held on part-time. Similar to the hypothesis of art. 15, and here it is proposed to ban the appointment of another office in the administration without a competition. The proposed amendments and additions do not have a direct impact on the budget and do not require additional appropriations. In the Committee on Legal Affairs there was an opinion in support of the Law of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as a negative opinion from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-94, submitted by Mrs Maya Manolova and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Petar Slavov. The bill provides for the creation of a legal opportunity for civil servants with permanent disabilities who make it difficult for them to carry out their duties at the premises of the appointing authority, to carry out their activities at a distance, and the conditions and procedures for the occurrence and modification of the service are governed by reference to the provisions of Chapter Five, Section VIIIb. The scope of the bill is limited to civil servants with permanent disabilities, which aims to avoid any abuse of the proposal for work at a distance. The Committee on Legal Affairs received a positive opinion on the Law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Emil Dimitrov, Daniel Kirilov, Dimitar Delchev and Dimitar Tanev. In the course of the discussion on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-60, submitted by Dimitar Tanev Tanev and a group of MPs, the MPs united around the opinion that the Law should be supported in principle, but the same is subject to precision and change. The Members of the National Assembly expressed their support to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Staff, No 554-01-94, submitted by Mrs. Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 7 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 vote abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Act, No 554-01-60, submitted by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015; - with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Employee, No 554-01-94, submitted by Maya Bozidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u59	Thank you. There's another report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u60	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-148, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs on 31 July 2015; Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Act, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015 and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Act No 554-01-154, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 16 September 2015. At its meeting, held on 3 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of Members of Parliament on 31 July 2015; a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Act, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015 and a Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Act, No 554-01-154, submitted by Velizar Enchev on 16 September 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Petar Slavov. He pointed out that the Law aims at the provision of art. 106, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Civil Service to acquire an version similar to the version of art. 328, para. 1, t. 10a of the Labour Code, under which to create a legal possibility, the service shall be terminated by one month's notice by the appointing authority when the relationship arose after the civil servant has acquired and exercised his right to a retirement pension and age. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015 was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov. He noted that the Bill was discussed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, such as representatives of trade unions, employers' organizations and government have expressed their support for the Bill. With it the Bulgarian legislation is aligned with our country's international legal commitments regarding the right to strike and the conclusion of a collective contract in the state administration. An opportunity is envisaged to conclude a collective contract in state administration between the appointing authority and a trade union organisation, which is deemed to be concluded for up to one year in so far as no other term has been agreed in it, but not for more than two years. The right of strike of civil servants is regulated and there is an inability to bear disciplinary and financial responsibility for participation in a legal strike. The Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 16 September 2015, aims to introduce the right to additional remuneration for the service of civil servants. People's representatives Lachezar Nikiforov, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov, Petar Slavov and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. The MPs Lachezar Nikiforov and Christian Mitev expressed their arguments in support of the two bills submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs and the Council of Ministers, and regarding the draft of the National Representative Velizar Enchev expressed a negative opinion. In the course of the discussion, there was a reasoned opinion that a clarification between the first and second votes of the bill submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs is necessary, given the provision of art. 68a of the Social Security Code, which regulates the right to a pension for internship and age reduced. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 10 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, and without abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-148, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs on 31 July 2015; - with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015. - with 3 votes "for" and 5 votes against "the" and 3 votes "abstained," he proposed to the National Assembly to reject in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-154, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 16 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. The reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u62	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u63	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 24 June 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Staff, No 554-01-94, submitted by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. With this bill, importers aim to eliminate existing discrimination in the legal framework with regard to distance work, allowing a certain category of civil servants to be able to work remotely. At present, such work is done under the rules of the Labour Code, with which, at the discretion of the employer, the employee or employee exercises his work at a distance outside the employer's offices. Importers have limited their proposals only to civil servants with permanent disabilities who are having difficulty fulfilling their duties at their employer's premises. Limiting to only one group of disabled people will avoid possible abuse of rights, according to importers. The bill provides for two provisions to be established. The first will allow for the appointment of people with permanent disabilities, in their appointment to be defined and completed conditions for carrying out activities at a distance. The second will enable people with permanent disabilities to request changes in their service to change the conditions relating to work at a distance. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities and the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. All three are positive. The discussion was attended by MPs from all parliamentary groups. In general, the MPs united around the thesis that the proposed changes will make a significant relief in the work of civil servants who have permanent disabilities. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Staff, No 554-01-94, submitted by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u64	Before we proceed with the second report. Dear colleagues, on the balcony of the National Assembly plenary is the President of the Parliament of Liechtenstein Mr. Albert Frick, who is on a two-day visit to Bulgaria. Let's welcome our guest to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[(The People's Representatives are up. (Applause)]] You may proceed now, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u65	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs on 31 July 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 16 September 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Public Staff, No 554-01-148, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. The bill was presented by the MP Mrs. Svetlana Angelova from the parliamentary group of GERB. The bill proposes an amendment to art. 106, para. 1, t. 6 of the Civil Service Act. The current text of the Law gives the appointing authority the right to terminate the service if the conditions laid down in art. 68 of the Social Security Code where the service arose after the appointed civil servant acquired and exercised his pension right. The scope covers cases in which civil servants are appointed as civil servants who have retired on the basis of special CSR provisions governing the acquisition of the right of pension by soldiers under the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, civil servants under the Law on the Ministry of Interior, the Special Intelligence Act and the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detentions, as well as civil servants under other laws. The importers offer art. 106, para 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Civil Service Officer to have an version similar to art. 328, para 1, item 1. 10a of the Labor Code. They have taken into account that the termination of the employment relationship under the Labour Code by notice is possible where it arose after the employee has acquired the right to a retirement pension and age, irrespective of the legal basis on which that right was acquired. In practice, this provision of the Labour Code states that the termination of the contract of employment is possible for all workers of employment, at the discretion of the employer, with the only requirement for notice, without the need to have the conditions under art. 68 of the Social Security Code. The importers are convinced that the proposed amendment of the Civil Service Act will achieve optimization of the administration and thus implement the planned savings in the budgets of the individual departments. Protocols were received in the committee from the Committee on Labour Law to the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation on the discussion of the amendment of the Law on the Civil Service Officer. It shows that the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance supported the bill. The Ministry of Interior has no comments or proposals on the draft. Support has also been received from all employers' organisations. From trade union organizations: the CST does not support and KT "Support" supported the proposal of the MPs. The discussion was attended by MPs from all parliamentary groups. In general, the MPs united around the argument that the proposed proposal is reasonable and will achieve a uniform legal framework with regard to the working pensioners. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for the vote, no votes against the vote and 1 vote abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft amendment of the Law on State Staff, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 16 September 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Staff, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy who presented the positions of the contributor on the bill. The bill aims to settle the circle of issues that may be the subject of a collective contract in the state administration. These are matters relating to the working conditions of civil servants, the distribution of working hours, the use of paid annual leave, the terms and conditions for the participation of the trade union in the attestation process and others which have not been regulated by the rules of law in force so far. It is envisaged that a collective contract in state administration should be concluded between the appointing authority and the trade union. The draft provides for an obligation by the appointing authority within one month of the submission of the collective contract project to enter into negotiations with a trade union organisation for the conclusion of a collective contract. In addition, the appointing authority shall provide representatives of the trade union within 15 days of receipt of the invitation to negotiate information relevant for the conclusion of the collective agreement. At the beginning of the negotiations for the conclusion of a collective contract, the appointing authority shall request and the trade union shall provide information on the actual number of its members. It is proposed that the collective employment contract be entered into a special register in the labour inspection, in the area of which the appointing authority has its seat. The collective employment contract will have a period of one year if no other term is agreed in it, but not more than two years. At any time from the operation of the contract, its amendments may be agreed as long as there is mutual agreement between the parties. The collective employment contract will act on government officials, members of the trade union. Those non-members will join the contract by means of special written applications to the appointing authority or to the management of the trade union. A change of an existing norm is envisaged from the Law governing the right to strike of civil servants, with the exception of Secretary General, Secretary General of the Municipality, Director General of the Directorate General, Director of the Directorate and Head of Inspectorate. If the civil servant is involved in a legal strike, he is not responsible disciplinaryly and financially for his participation in it. The importers of the Bill informed the MPs that it was discussed at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. It is apparent from the minutes of the meeting that representatives of trade unions, employers' organisations and government supported the bill. The discussion was attended by MPs from all parliamentary groups. In general, the MPs united around the thesis that the submitted bill is necessary and fair and will also be consistent with texts of the European Social Charter (religious) and provisions of Convention No 87 and Convention No 98 of the International Labour Organisation. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 14 votes for the vote, no votes against, and abstention, The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on State Staff, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u66	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. We should now hear the importers of the relevant bills. First in time is the Bill of Mr. Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Tanev, to present to us your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As is known, the main principle of entering a public service is the competition beginning. That's what the Law says. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is also one of the main ones that the Reformation bloc has placed in our election programme and in the Management Programme. Unfortunately, the Law on the Civil Service provides for the possibility of entering an exclusive state service, of a temporary nature, and this is the possibility to become a public service of replacement, that is, when there are continuous absent civil servants, and also in some of the administrations that do not have such workloads, to employ certain part-time posts. In practice, however, it appears that it is these two options that I would say these two loopholes in the Law are used exclusively widely by the administrations to enter the respective administration without competition. It is thus obtained that, when there is an absent maternity officer, an employee is appointed, for example, as a temporary employee, who stays in office for no more than a month, two and is transferred to another vacant post without a contest. Similarly, when an employee starts part-time and after a month, two is also transferred to another vacant post without a contest. In practice, for the past few years, the reference shows that 5072 cases of the initiation of a public service and then transfer to another vacant post account for about 40% of the new employees. This means that the public administration is en masse surrounding the basic principle, namely the competition beginning, using the two entry loopholes in the public administration. With our proposals, we close this possibility, that is, even if there is a hypothesis in entering a public service for replacement or part-time, that you have no right to transfer to another vacant post without a competition. I call on you to support the bill we have tabled and to suspend the entry of a government service without a contest, to terminate party, friendly and family appointments. Let all Bulgarian citizens have equality, appear in competition and enter state service on a competitive and competitive principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. On the second bill with importers Maya Manolova and a group of MPs have the floor of the national representative Svetlana Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With our bill, which is from a group of MPs from several parliamentary groups, we propose an amendment to the Law on the Civil Service Officer in order to eliminate existing discrimination in the legal framework regarding work at a distance. The Labour Code allows the employer or employee to carry out their work at a distance, i.e. outside the employer's premises, by making no distinction between categorical workers and employees, by allowing a certain category of civil servants with disabilities to work at a distance as well as those employed under the Labour Code with our bill. Work at a distance is a form of organizing the work exported outside the employer's premises by using information technology. If we adopt this Bill, we will also allow for the appointment of people with permanent disabilities who are having difficulty carrying out their duties in the premises of the appointing authority in the designation act to be able to lay down additional conditions for carrying out work at a distance according to Chapter 5a, Section VIIIb of the Labour Code. In this way, the mobile civil servants will be able, with the consent of the appointing authority, to carry out their duties from their home when the respective position and task permit it. It is also a proposal for civil servants with permanent disabilities, regardless of when they have occurred, to request a change in the service, namely to pursue their work at a distance. This change will help civil servants with disabilities to avoid often irresistible problems related to their movement to the premises of the appointing authority. The proposed changes will take an important step towards easing the situation of civil servants with permanent disabilities and their socialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The next bill has the word Mr. Peter Slavov as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill I'm about to present is from the middle of last year. With colleagues from almost all parliamentary groups, we signed it and imported it at the end of July. You have also heard the opinion of the committees, it is generally supported by both the main committee and the participating committee. Positive opinions were also heard from relevant departments that are interested. In fact, we are talking about the so-called working pensioners and a very privileged position that was created for them in the Law on the Civil Service, in relation to the Labour Code, for example, where such a privileged situation does not exist. At the initiative of the employer when he reached retirement age by the person who is a pensioner and when he exercised his pension right, the employer could, in this case, be the appointing authority, possibly exercise the authority and, with notice, release such an employee if he considered that he no longer needed for the activities of the office concerned. This is what we propose that these regimes should be aligned and, as in the Labour Code, so be written in the Civil Service Act, that there be no privileged position and that the administration be given the opportunity to release those reforms that we expect from it, this optimization in practice of human resources in it to happen in such a way as, in practice, relatively painless persons who have exercised their pension rights, as I have already said, could be easier to release and possibly engage younger employees or employees with other profiles and specializations. There is a small change in the Social Security Code, which took place in the meantime, while this bill was waiting for its order to come, which we can take into account, between the two readings with an adjustment text, so there will be no conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. And with the latest Bill will introduce us to his importer the people representative Velizar Enchev. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What I propose is an attempt to restore social justice, which was violated at the initiative of the Finance Minister in the first government of GERB party Mr. Simeon Djankov. What happened? As of 1 July 2012 with amendments to the Law on the Civil Service and the Labour Code, a new model was introduced to pay employees in the state administration. According to these changes, no additional remuneration for acquired work experience and professional experience shall be paid to employees in the public administration's service or employment relationship. However, these changes, honourable Members, imposed double standards in the state administration. A number of employees, including in the administration, continue to be charged a time served class, in particular this applies to the State Agency of National Security (DANS), the Ministry of Interior, the National Security Service. They shall not be subject to the Law on the Civil Serviceman. These employees shall be paid an additional remuneration of two per cent on the basic monthly remuneration for each year of service, but not more than 40 per cent. Let's see the next category that benefits. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 296, para. 1, t. 1 of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria it is provided that an additional remuneration of civil servants working in employment in the Bulgarian Army and in the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence for which the Law on the Civil Service is not applied shall be paid for additional remuneration for the service of time or service and professional experience of not less than one per cent on the basic monthly remuneration for each year of service. In accordance with art. 219 of the Judicial Law on the basic monthly remuneration of judges, prosecutors and investigators shall also be paid an additional remuneration of two per cent for each year of service, but not more than forty per cent. Let me sum up the categories of civil servants benefiting from this change, called the Djankov Correction. These are employees at the DANS, the Ministry of Interior, the National Assembly, the Bulgarian Army, the judges, prosecutors and investigators. And now a particularly scandalous category is about members of political offices, administration employees, advisors and experts who are not considered employees of service or employment. They are also charged additional remuneration for acquired work experience and professional experience. Last but not least, although this may make an unpleasant impression on you, I must point out that the Members of the National Assembly, according to art. 7, para. 1 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly under the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the Parliament, an additional monthly remuneration for service and professional experience of one hundred per year shall also continue to be charged. Those exceptions to the principle of wage formation in budgetary organisations put, I think, in an uneven position, employees in the various structures of the administration, all the more so, that the experience gained each year in the administration of state bodies is not taken into account in the same way in the formation of the salary. Before I make my conclusion and proposal, I will once again summarize who are the categories of employees who are receiving additional remuneration for internship and age "SANS, Ministry of Interior, NGO, Ministry of Defence, judges, prosecutors, investigators, members of political offices" they are as if God-selected, they are not subject to these amendments in the Law on State Staff and in the Code of Labour. Therefore, in the light of the foregoing, I propose that, in the name of social justice, the discriminatory state policy of maintaining an imbalance between public sector workers should be terminated when paying the additional wage for experience and professional experience. For this, it is necessary to do something very, very simple to return the old pay model for employees in the public administration, which was applied before 1 July 2012, which means that all civil servants should be charged the so-called time class. Otherwise, if you reject these changes, if you reject the Bill, you will legitimize this social inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Dear colleagues, you have been familiar with the opinions of the importers. It's 1120. With the debate we will continue after the break, which is at 11.51. I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u75	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Before continuing with our work, let us recall that on today's day "February 10, 1879, Veliko Tarnovo opened the First Meeting of the Constitutional Assembly. Let us also remember that this Assembly adopts the Tarnovo Constitution, which gives the initial impetus to the European development of our young state. Bulgarian parties are also born in the Constitutional Assembly. The Bulgarian parties are conservatives and liberals. This is the beginning of both the party and the political life in our country. The Bulgarian society and the state have begun to build on a healthy post. It remains for us to remember this, because today we are the ones who are writing parliamentary history. Let us also not forget that our mission is to serve our people and their future. The rest of my colleagues who aren't in this room know all this, of course! I am opening the debates on the bills that were presented to you by the importers before the break. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is good that after such a long time they enter the Chamber for discussion bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service. Some of them are aged for nearly a year, and are important, and they are dealing with important things like the competition beginning, the right to strike, the right of disabled people to work in the public administration and so on, I will not issue them. I will begin first with the Bill submitted by the MP Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs. It has been since 26 March 2015. It aims to strengthen the application of the principle of competition for the taking up of positions in the state administration, as well as to limit the possibility of entering a public service without a competition. The omissions, not exactly the gaps, but the possibilities in the current texts in the Law on the Civil Service, to bypass the competition beginning, irritate society, on the one hand, but on the other hand, it was a lever, and continues to be a lever, for political appointments and political pressure on the state administration. In my opinion, with the proposals of fellow MPs Dimitar Tanev and a group to a large extent these problems are solved. Hopefully, by accepting these changes now in the Civil Service Act, they will become principles and will not be enjoyed in the future, not to look for loopholes to circumvent them and political pressure in the administration. I do not agree with one thing of the proposals of the Members of the National Assembly and it is in the proposal in § 3, which concerns art. 15, which makes an amendment, such as the words "three months', are replaced by "six months', that is to say, one place can be announced in a contest or appointed to it if the holder is absent for more than six months, so far it has been three. I believe that this will definitely make the work of administrations difficult, especially those administrations who work directly with people, directly serving citizens who are on top of it, with a very shrunken state. I am referring to the General Labour Inspection, the National Revenue Agency, the Employment Agency, the Social Assistance Agency and so on. Between the first and second votes, I will ask the importers to withdraw this proposal, as it seems to me, and I suggest that most of you do not think it would be appropriate for these administrations, nor does it fit into the general spirit of the fellow Members' proposals. I don't know why they did it. Under the Law of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs he aims the provision of art. 106, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Civil Service to acquire the edit, similar to the version of art. 328, para. 1, t. 10a of the Labour Code, which means that by virtue of that provision, it is possible for service relationships to be terminated by one month's notice by the appointing authority where the relationship arose after the civil servant acquired and exercised his right to a retirement pension and age without being linked to the age under art. 68 of the Social Security Code, all the more so that this age is intended to rise and reach 65 years. This will enable the appointing authorities to terminate relations with staff retired on the basis of a number of special laws. There is nothing more logical than the principles enshrined in the Labour Code to be transposed or harmonised with those in the Civil Service Act. This proposal was made shortly before the amendments to the Labour Code, but the changes to the Labour Code are already a fact, and in the Civil Service Act, if it enters now, it will enable many young people to go in their labour path, including in the state administration, so I will support this proposal. Under the Law of the Council of Ministers, which aims to bring Bulgaria's legislation into line with international commitments regarding the right to strike and collective bargaining of civil servants and is in line with a number of conventions, I will not specify them who they are, here the circle of issues which may be the subject of the collective agreement in the state administration, the right to strike and a number of other relations related to this. I think the bill can be supported. We come to the Bill of the National Representative Velizar Enchev. He put it very well. In principle, it aims to align the wage formation in budgetary organisations in all the structures of the administration and within the structures themselves, because they are currently being placed in an unequal position of employees in the various structures of the administration. This principle, you remember, was violated in 2012, when the so-called time served class was abolished for civil servants who were employed under the Civil Service Act. That was in Simeon Djankov's day. Without criticizing the then minister, I believe that with the removal of this class of serviced time for civil servants, the equality has been violated and now there are some paradoxes being created in the same structure... By the way, Velizar Enchev directed the presentation of his bill mainly to the power offices, but there are also problems in the other state services - Labour Inspection, Employment Agency, Social Assistance Agency - I will not list them. There is the greatest paradox that in the same structure employees receive the so-called class of time served and the other employees who are under the Civil Service Act do not receive this remuneration. Yes, you scored a point that received every month bonuses, but there is also not fully implemented this prescription of the Law on the Civil Service. [[Reply of MP Hasan Ademov from the place.]] It is true, Dr. Ademov, that, indeed, when this class of time was taken away, it was put into the salary of the civil servant, but it is true that this deprives the annual increase in salary with the accumulation of experience and thus does not take into account the experience that the employee has gained in the state administration over the years. I know that the majority will not support this proposal, even for being made by the independent MP Velizar Enchev. He will not support it, and because it is socially unacceptable, because in the years the rulers made the word "state employee" a dirty word, with her neglect and with the accusing of the civil servant of all the troubles that happen to the Bulgarians who really do not live well. I will personally support the Bill because justice and the same approach require this proposal to be supported. I also call on the MPs to think twice when they vote on the text proposed by Velizar Enchev. The bill submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs is from May 2015. Mrs. Angelova presented it very well. I think it is signed by MPs from different groups and is consensual, and there will be no problem with its adoption, especially that it eliminates an injustice. I don't know when the Civil Service Act was passed, why wasn't it provided for because it was in the Labour Code?! I will say something that I will all repeat when we talk about people with disabilities: our society as a whole and the National Assembly as a legislative body, however much it does for people with disabilities, it will be small. But this is a step, a removal of injustice, which I believe we owe to these people, and I have no doubt that the MPs will support it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? There are no willing to replicate the speechable Mr. Gokov. I give the floor to the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov for speech. Please, if there are any who wish to make speeches on the bills so submitted, give a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would call on my fellow Members not to engage in much talking on these bills, as the majority of them are consensual, that is, they are signed by almost all representatives of political forces. Under Maya Manolova's bill, as I said, there are all political forces importing, it is not only Maya Manolova's. It has been since March 2015. I would like to stress that this bill is extremely consensual, supportive, pressing, and I believe that there will be no problems to adopt in the first vote. The same is true of the bill of colleague Petar Slavov. However, I have no explanation for the bill of colleague Velizar Enchev. As I can see, he's absent himself. I don't know, since he's absent as an importer, how will he motivate fellow MPs to support him?! I will personally support it because there is a consistency there and it concerns a similar bill submitted by my colleague Yavor Haytov in terms of working clothes between employees employed in employment and employment. I suggest that if you accept my proposal, I know that there is no such procedure, colleagues, that we move on to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov, and for your evaluation. - What's the line? I can't see. Are there any other MPs who wish to speak on the five drafts in question on this item on the agenda? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement to participate in the debate. We're closing the debate. We're going into voting mode. We will vote on the five draft laws on their consistency, as they did in the Lawmaking Office. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554-01-60, submitted by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs on 26 March 2015, supported by the leading Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 83, none, abstention 10. The bill was passed at first reading. We are going to vote at the first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554 01-94, submitted by the National Representative Maya Manolova and a group of MPs on 15 May 2015, supported by the leading Commission and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote at first reading the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554 01-148, tabled by the National Representative Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 31 July 2015, supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. They voted 102 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 502-01-76, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 September 2015, supported by the leading Commission. 99 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote at first reading Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 554 01 154, tabled by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on 16 September 2015, not supported by the leading Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 20, against 54, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. The Commission's report will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention: The Report for the Second Voting on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 502-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2015. "Accordance to the Civil Procedure Code'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become the sole paragraph: I'm the only one. Chapter fifty-eighth is created with art. 627 y 627 y: "Chapter fifty-eighth." Recognition and enforcement of judgments and issuing a European Certificate of Heritage on the basis of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of authentic acts in the field of succession and on the creation of a European Certificate of Heritage (OJ L 201, 10.7.2012, p. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to interrupt for a procedure to allow the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u81	Once you report the text, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u82	Thank you. "Acknowledgment by the Court of Justice" Art. 627. (1) In the case of art. 39, § 2 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012, the interested party may request recognition of a foreign judgment under art. 627e from the district court at the permanent address of the opposite party, at its seat or at the place of execution. (2) The Court of Justice under para. 1 shall also be ruled on the requested timely and precautionary measures under art. 54, § 1 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012. Admission of implementation Art. 627e. (1) The application for the enforcement of a judgment or other act issued in another Member State of the European Union shall be submitted to the district court at the permanent address of the debtor, at his or her registered office or at the place of execution. No copy of the application for service to the debtor shall be submitted. (2) The Court shall examine the application in closed session. (3) In the order respecting the application, the court shall set the applicable time limit for appeal under art. 50 (5) of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012. The order respecting the application shall not be carried out in advance. (4) The Court shall rule by order on the provisional and interim measures sought. (5) The order of admission shall be deemed to be a decision given in an action. (6) The order shall be subject to an appeal before the Sofia Court of Appeal. The decision of the Sofia Court of Appeal is subject to a cassation appeal before the Supreme Court of Cassation. Issue of a European Certificate of Heritage Art. 627f. (1) Where the Bulgarian court is internationally competent under art. 4, 7, 10 and 11 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012, the application for the issuing of a European Certificate of Heritage shall be submitted to the Regional Court at the last permanent address of the deceased, if any, at his last address in the country and, in the absence of an address in the country, to the Sofia Regional Court. Mr. Chairman, I will ask Mrs. Atanasova to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u83	Mrs. Atanasova, come in. In the meantime, let us vote on the proposal made to allow the Deputy Minister in the Chamber. Please vote admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Justice. They voted 87 MPs, 82, against 2, abstention 3. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u84	In the case of the application under para. 1 is respected, the court issues a European Certificate of Heritage using the form of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1329/2014 of 9 December 2014 drawing up the forms referred to in Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and the adoption and enforcement of authentic acts in the field of succession and on the establishment of a European Certificate of Heritage. (3) The European Certificate of Heritage, as well as the refusal to issue it, shall be subject to appeal before the relevant district court within a period of one month from the time of service. (4) Where the European Certificate of Heritage issued is incorrect or the refusal to issue it is unfounded, the court shall revoke the decision, in whole or in part, and shall refer the case back to the Court of First Instance with binding instructions. Appeals against acts amending, amending or withdrawing a European Certificate of Heritage Art. 627g. (1) The acts ordered at the request of repair, amendment or withdrawal of a European Certificate of Heritage shall be subject to appeal before the relevant district court within a period of two weeks from the time of service. (2) Where the issued European Certificate of Heritage is incorrect or the refusal to amend, amend or withdraw the European Certificate of Heritage is unfounded, the court shall revoke the decision in whole or in part and shall refer the case back to the Court of First Instance with binding instructions. Appeal against the suspension of the European Certificate of Heritage Art. 627z. The suspension of a European Certificate of Heritage issued by the regional court may be appealed within one week before the district court. Application of the general rules of security proceedings Art. 627th. The general rules of Chapter 40 and 9 shall apply to issues not governed by Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 relating to the production of the European Certificate of Heritage.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as § 1, edited by the Commission and found the appropriate place in its report. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The name of the Law and § 1 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u86	'Concluding provision'. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the subdivision be rejected. ..................................................... The Act shall enter into force on 17 August 2015 and shall enter into force on the date The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u87	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision, as well as the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The final provision was rejected as well as § 2 by importer. With this, the Law has been passed in a second vote. The next item on our agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION OF PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. With a report from the Committee on Education and Science, Prof. Zhelev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u88	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I propose an admission procedure in this Chamber. I'm asking the court to allow Prof. Scully to be admitted. Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u89	We are voting on the proposal of the MP Stefan Zhelev for the admission of Deputy Minister Kostadinov to the Chamber. Vote 85 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 2. Please invite Deputy Minister Kostadinov to the hall. Professor Zhelev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u90	Honourable Members, I present to your attention {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. At its regular meeting held on 16 December, The Commission of Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science: Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Minister, Krasimir Valchev " Secretary General, Lyubomir Yosifov " Director of the Legal Department, as well as representatives of shared and trade union organizations. The Committee on Education and Science received opinions on the bill from: Bulgarian Medical Union, Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, Bulgarian Dental Union, Bulgarian Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria, the Union of Veterinary Doctors in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Association of Professionals in Health Care. The opinions express principled support for the Bill and some of them contain concrete proposals. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov. It was underlined that the aim of the Bill was to transpose into national law the amendment of Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and of Regulation (EU) No1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. The proposed changes introduce a European Professional Card which will operate the Internal Market Information System. This amendment will simplify the process of recognising professional qualifications and promote the free movement of specialists. It is envisaged to grant partial access to the profession if the specialist so wishes when differences in a particular field of activity are so large that it is required to cover a full education programme. Where the provision of the service is of a temporary or occasional nature and the profession is not regulated in the country from which the specialist comes, the requirement for at least one year of professional experience in the profession in the last 10 years shall be allowed. The bill allows the duration of a training programme, except in cash hours, to be expressed in credits under the European Credit Transfer System (ESTS). Changes are proposed in the training of nurses with a common profile, which will focus to a greater extent on the results and acquisition of certain knowledge, skills and competences of importance for the profession. Changes in the training of midwives will ensure that in-depth knowledge of the sciences on which midwife activities are based, as well as appropriate knowledge of general medicine and pharmaceuticals in the field of neonatology and obstetrics. The amendments to the minimum qualification requirements for architects reflect innovations in architecture education, especially with regard to supplementing academic training with professional experience under the supervision of qualified architects. The so-called general principles of training are introduced for the purpose of greater automation in the recognition of professional qualifications. These principles constitute common training frameworks based on a common set of knowledge, skills and competences. The common training framework shall be based on the levels of the European Qualification Framework. The bill introduces compulsory knowledge of Bulgarian language in professions that have consequences for the safety of patients. The National Information and Documentation Centre of the Minister of Education and Science is proposed to perform the functions of an auxiliary centre within the meaning of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications. This centre will assist the citizens and support centres of other countries in recognising qualifications. Detailed obligations concerning the exchange of information with other Member States relating to disciplinary, administrative or criminal penalties relating to the pursuit of the profession shall be introduced. The information will contain all details of the application of the restriction or waiver of the right to exercise a particular profession and will be submitted through the Internal Market Information System. The following discussion was attended by Members of Parliament and representatives of thought organizations. Fundamental support of the Bill was expressed. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Borislav Milanov disagreed with the legislation's proposed recognition of the right to exercise the profession of dentist of persons who started their university training in Spain between 1 January 1986 and 31 December 1997. Architect Vesela Georgieva, Vice-President of the Chamber of Architects, suggested that the bodies for the recognition of professional qualifications determine the order for the trainings to be carried out and for the examinations of competence. After the discussion was completed and the results vote was held: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. The next report on the debate bill belongs to the Committee on Health. We will be introduced by Dr Daritkova, Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. At its regular meeting on 4 February 2016, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov; Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Dr. Adam Persenski, Dr. Boyko Penkov; Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Nikolay Denkov; the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Dr. Glinka Komitov; representatives of word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Nikolai Denkov. He introduced the Members of the National Assembly to some of the main changes proposed by him, namely: legal regulation of the European Professional Card, legal regime of partial access to the exercise of a regulated profession, as well as regulation of cases where preliminary examination of professional qualifications is required. The bill aims to introduce in national law provisions of Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. In the field of health, the bill provides that, in order to ensure a high level of public health and the safety of patients in the European Union, the criteria used to determine basic medical training so that the conditions relating to the minimum number of years and hours become cumulative, without this amendment, reduce the requirements for basic medical education; in relation to the development of more complex therapies and technologies involving capacity to assume greater responsibilities by nurses with a general profile, their training is intended to provide a more reliable guarantee that the specialist is able to apply at least certain competences in order to carry out activities relevant to the profession; the training of midwives will provide a better guarantee that the specialist has acquired certain knowledge and skills necessary to exercise the activities of the profession referred to in Directive 2005/36/EC. The amendments provide for a mandatory check of the language level for professions relevant for patient safety before the specialist starts exercising the profession in the host Member State. Competent recognition authorities will be able to apply the level of language proficiency check after recognition of professional qualifications. During the discussion, the President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Borislav Milanov expressed objections to the proposed amendments by § 23 of the Bill, as the designated training for recognition of professional qualifications of dentists meeting the conditions of this paragraph is of a duration of less than five years. In this regard, MPs have expressed their intentions for written proposals on the bill between the two votes. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The next debate report Draft is the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The report will introduce us to Dobromir Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 10 December 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502 01 97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the presenter, the bill was presented by Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications relate to the need to harmonise the provisions of national law in the field of the recognition of professional qualifications with the changes occurring in the acts of the European Union governing that matter, and in particular Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System ( For the purposes of strengthening the internal market and promoting the free movement of professionals, ensuring more efficient and transparent recognition of professional qualifications, the European Professional Card shall be introduced, the purpose of which shall be to simplify the process of recognition and implementation of cost and operational efficiency, which will benefit professionals and competent authorities. The operational regime of the European Professional Card should be served by the Internal Market Information System (IHR) established by Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The map and IMI will enhance synergies and confidence between competent authorities while eliminating duplication of administrative work and recognition procedures with competent authorities and contributing more transparency and security to professionals. Where, in the host Member State, the activities concerned are part of a wider profession than in the home Member State and the differences in the areas of activity are so large that the specialist is required to cover a full education and training programme in order to overcome those differences, the host Member State should, in these particular circumstances, grant partial access if the specialist so wishes. The functioning of the automatic recognition system depends on the trust in the qualification requirements that are the basis of the qualification of the specialists. In this context, changes are made to the minimum qualification requirements for architects who reflect innovations in architecture education, especially with regard to the recognised need to complement academic training with professional experience under the supervision of qualified architects. At the same time, minimum qualification requirements remain sufficiently flexible to avoid unnecessary limitation of Member States' freedom to organise their educational systems. An opinion was submitted to the Commission by the Chamber of Architects expressing the principle of support for the changes proposed in the Bill. Proposals were also made for the clarification of the provisions regulating substantial discrepancies in content and duration of training, in view of better editing, and to further develop in law the assumptions governing the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in third countries with which we do not have bilateral agreements in this field. It is also proposed to grant the President of the House the right to determine the conditions and procedures for conducting an adaptation and assessment internship. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission expressed their support for the Bill and the amendments proposed by it, assessing the appropriate part of the proposals expressed in the opinion of the Chamber of Architects concerning the clarification of editorial and further development of the missing hypotheses in the Law. As absolutely unfounded and unacceptable, it has been assessed by both the members of the Commission and the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the proposal to grant the President of the Chamber rights to determine the terms and conditions for conducting an adaptation and examination experience and for their assessment. According to the Law on Chambers of Architects and Engineers in Investment Design, these issues are of the competence of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and it is appropriate that representatives of the Chamber and experts of the Ministry join their efforts to draw up the relevant regulation to settle the issues of recognition of professional qualifications the conditions and arrangements for conducting the training for adaptation and the examination of competence and for their assessment. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and the abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement to the Act for recognition of professional qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u95	And thank you, Mr. Prodanov. The next debate report Draft is by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mrs. Sylvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u96	♪ I can't believe As regards the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. At a meeting held on 27 January 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part Ms. Vanya Kastreva Deputy Minister of Education and Science and Mr. Plamen Slavov Chief Expert at the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Science. This bill aims to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System ( The period of transposition of Directive 2013/55/EU shall be until 18 January 2016. The proposed changes provide for the creation of a European Professional Card to simplify the process of recognition and implementation of cost and operational efficiency, as well as facilitating professionals and competent authorities. The operational regime of the European Professional Card should be served by the Internal Market Information System established by Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012. The Map and IMI aims to remove duplication of administrative work and to bring more transparency and security to specialists. The amendments to Directive 2005/36/EC also provide for the establishment of a system of national contact points. In order to avoid the risk of overlap with the provisions of Directive 2006/123/EC establishing single contact points, national contact points should become auxiliary centres to provide advice and assistance to citizens. Directive 2006/123/EC already obliges Member States to ensure easy access to information and implementation of procedures through single contact points. Citizens who wish to recognise their professional qualifications in accordance with Directive 2005/36/EC will be able to use the single contact points if they are covered by Directive 2006/123/EC. The bill also envisions the creation of Chapter 3 in the current Law. "Automated recognition of professional qualifications on the basis of general principles of training............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The general principles of training should take the form of common frameworks based on a common set of knowledge and skills or common training examinations. Last but not least, the proposed Bill aims to reflect the provisions of Directive 2013/55/EU concerning criteria for recognition of the qualifications of architects and medical professionals, including doctors, nurses with a general profile, midwives, etc. The possibility of expressing the duration of a training programme except in cash hours and credits under the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) is envisaged. One ECTS credit corresponds to 25-30 academic hours and 60 credits are usually required for the completion of an academic year. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 14 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. With this, the reports from the committees have been exhausted. I'm opening the debate. The People's Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We from the Patriotic Front will support this Bill, but I say from now on that we will submit proposals between first and second readings, because so-called "governing" in Bulgarian, which is supposed to be mandatory and mandatory, I would like to draw attention to you from now on, honourable Members, is not so mandatory. First, I pay attention to § 6. It opens two new points 6 and 7, where the Bulgarian language is, so to speak, declarative. That is, the one who wants to acquire professional qualifications, he only needs to declare that we want to respect the principle and it to declare only in terms of medical qualifications, only that from the previous point it practically turns out that a teacher who does not know the Bulgarian language has no problem teaching any other language, but not being able to explain in the Bulgarian language of the children what it is and what it is about. So the first amendment will be introduced in § 6 in respect of art. 13 and the introduced two new points 6 and 7 we will want not to submit a declaration, to provide a certificate issued by a competent authority as it is throughout the world. This competent authority may also be the Institute of Bulgarian Language. I can tell you that many of you children, for example, in one of the European countries, must pass SAT and TOFEL tests and pay a very serious amount in order to obtain the right to study. I am surprised why no fee has been introduced here to be supported, as I said, the Institute of Bulgarian Language, for example. Why? Are we that rich and so easy to provide professional qualifications without any control mechanism? To understand that there is not so much mandatory verification, we will immediately transfer to § 38 on this issue and the changes in Article 38. 89. There you will really find that there is a text that says that the Bulgarian language check is mandatory, but it still turns out that it is not so mandatory. This is the created new para. 2, where it is said that the verification of the knowledge in Bulgarian language is mandatory, e.g. 1.................................................................................. 2, and we're going to the interesting al. 3, which says that the check under para. 2 shall be carried out only after the issuance of an EPC. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Professional Card is issued at the request of the one who wants to acquire professional qualifications for Bulgaria. By choice! He may not want such a European Professional Card issued to him. That is, here, if he does not want such a card to be issued, he is no longer subject to this mandatory check for Bulgarian language knowledge, but can exercise professions that concern the protection of health, the preservation of life and whatnot. From then on, there is one which is used after recognition of the professional qualification. Now I ask colleagues: why should we, when the state and the relevant authority have already issued these documents, only then should we start carrying out this inspection? Why do we have to burden the administration to carry out a bunch of activities, to carry out a bunch of expenses and only then, do you see, when these costs have been incurred, we have to check whether the person concerned is fluent in Bulgarian language? I think it is more right that this check should be carried out before then and if it does not know the Bulgarian language, if it has eventually provided a genuine certificate from an authority, as we will propose in the amendments I already told you in art. 13 of § 6, so that person has no right to obtain and acquire such professional qualifications. Our remarks are in this part of the bill. We have expressed them clearly and categorically in the relevant committees, in this case in the Committee on Health and I hope that you too will be responsible, to review the two paragraphs I have referred to, § 6 and § 38, and to make the Law working and protecting mostly the Bulgarian professionals, the Bulgarian specialists and all kinds of categories of professions, because this is important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines? I won't. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Professor Stankov of the ABB Parliamentary Group, come in, Mr. Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that the Bill is one of the most serious, of the most important bills and it is at the heart of many other laws that need to be complied with next. We are now looking at the philosophy of the Law, where it is about recognition of professional qualifications. In order for them to be recognized in secondary and higher education in Bulgaria, this means that we have to comply with the professional training and the problems in Bulgaria, in Bulgarian vocational education are very much in secondary and higher education. We have to take that into account. Perhaps in regulated specialties things are somewhat consistent, but not everything that had to be done has been done so far, although the previous directive was looking at this limited range of professions, especially regulated professions. The big problem is with the other jobs. Here we need to make significant changes to the curriculums, the curriculums, and also to the curriculums. A lot of things are limping now, suffering. We cannot implement a normal programme of the European Union and the exchange of student mobility, because we have serious differences with the countries of the European Union. It's a lot of work in that regard. A big problem in Bulgaria is that we do not have a normal Classifier of specialties. Our Classifier includes 517 majors. They are too much broken down here in Bulgaria, 52 directions and 9 districts. How, then, are we going to comply with those in the European Union, where most of the preparation at the Bachelor's level is widespread? There are fewer majors there, and the Master's degree programs are more. This has not changed in Bulgaria and we need to make this change and compliance. We are also talking about a European transfer credit system. Until recently, such a European transfer credit system was not available. Now you can say that there is one, by leveling the number of credits and our students can go and learn by recognizing their credits, but the formation of these credits is different. This is also a problem that we need to resolve further. We will support the Bill, we will accept it, but the big work begins after that when we have to make full compliance and this must happen necessarily if we want our specialists to be successful in the European Union and in the world and also to receive specialists from outside. I mean, I've been working on these issues for 24 years, except for teaching work, and I've been working with the deputy dean, dean, rector. There are no uniform criteria in the countries of the European Union. The differences are very big. I have to tell you, when we try to make a change, the reaction is cruel. Everyone keeps their discipline, their hours with their teeth and claws. Therefore, there will be many difficulties, but I think that if we do everything that is set out in the Bill, this future law will play a very positive role for higher and secondary vocational education in Bulgaria. We will make our suggestions and comments. However, I would like to stress again that the work is coming. The other bills to be imported will have to be largely complied with by this Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u101	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications submitted by the Council of Ministers in the first vote of 24 November 2015. I welcome the idea that dentists foreign citizens who wish to be recognized their professional qualifications in the Republic of Bulgaria should be facilitated in their clash with the complexity and uncertainty of administrative procedures. This will also lead to fewer misunderstandings when they are registered in the word organisation, as well as when they begin their activities. Fellow Members, in the exercise of their profession dentists should necessarily have the relevant knowledge, skills and competences. In this regard, I remind you that in the Republic of Bulgaria a Master's degree was accepted for the acquisition of professional qualification................................................................................................ In addition, according to the legal acts adopted by the Council of European dentists, the European Commission, all its 28 member states and three observer countries unanimously support the requirement for mandatory minimum five years of training and 5 thousand. the training hours for the acquisition of professional qualification of a dentist, as well as are strongly against all forms of distance learning and Saturday-Sunday nature. In this regard, we will be strongly opposed to the adoption of § 23 of the Bill, which is considered successful for a minimum period of three years, certified by a Spanish competent authority, as equivalent to the minimum qualification requirements of this Law, and any other provisions which are accepted as successful trainings for professional qualifications, a dentist with a duration of less than five years. I believe that for the safety of patients and for the high quality of dental assistance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, recognition of professional qualification of a dentist should not be allowed for foreigners who have not undergone training with a minimum duration of five years and 5 thousand. school hours. We will submit a proposal between the first and second votes on this Bill for the categorical removal of § 23 in all its text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The bill was passed in the first vote. The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE OLD MIGRATION AND THE OLD MOBILITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. He's taken under number 502-01-100. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will introduce us to the President of the Commission Dr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 13 January 2016 discussed and discussed the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of employers' and trade unions. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Galab Donev. The bill proposes to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation in the area of free movement of workers, as well as in the field of employment of foreigners, third-country nationals, in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers, Directive 2014/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers and Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer. These acts of European legislation are aimed at ensuring legal certainty for those wishing to work within the European Union nationals of third countries. They also provide guarantees for the protection of the labour market of host Member States. Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union from 1 January 2007, our country has moved towards full application of Community law in the area of freedom of movement for workers, in particular Council Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 of 15 October 1968 on freedom of movement for workers in the Community and of 16 June 2011. - Regulation (EU) No 492/2011, which replaces it. Besides this regulation, the employment of citizens of countries outside the European Union in Bulgaria is regulated by several members of the Law on Employment, Law on foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, several regulations and several guidelines. Changes to the Employment Promotion Act, made in 2011, introduced the provisions of two Directives (EC) No 2009/52/EC of the Council of 25 May 2009 on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment and Directive 2009/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2009 providing for minimum standards on sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. In 2013, provisions of Directive 2011/98/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on a uniform procedure for applying third-country nationals to a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State were introduced in the Employment Promotion Act. The proposed bill aims to bring together the current legislation on labour migration and labour mobility, which is governed by different regulations. The general provisions of the Bill explicitly define its scope, exclude the possibility of applying discriminatory rules and lay down the conditions under which national policy on the free movement of workers in the European Union is laid down, as well as access to the Bulgarian labour market of foreigners, including for freelance activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. A separate chapter describes the equal treatment of workers from the European Union with Bulgarian citizens, as well as those from third countries with regard to their fundamental rights relating to their professional realization and their economic and social life in Bulgaria. According to the importers of the Bill, this is necessary in view of the growing importance of the possibility of access to social rights as a means of attracting workers and employees from third countries within the EU. There is a shortage of them on the European labour market, in particular on the Bulgarian labour market, including highly qualified workers and employees, those on the line of intra-corporate transfer, as well as seasonal workers. Each of the sections in Chapter "Trudy migration from third countries" of the Bill introduces specific procedures for granting the right of access to the relevant categories of workers foreigners from third countries to the Bulgarian labour market. They fully comply with the subject-matter and personal scope of the above directives. The questions about the free movement of workers in the European Union are separated from the draft of the Law. The provisions are entirely in line with Directive 2014/54/EU and the main objective is to ensure sufficient protection of the rights of workers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria nationals of other Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland and their family members. The project aims to provide legal protection to Bulgarian citizens exercising employment in the territory of the European Union and the European Economic Area in third countries. For this purpose, provisions providing a volume of obligations for persons whose assistance and mediation Bulgarian citizens work in third countries are laid down. In addition, the order for the conclusion of bilateral agreements with third countries in the field of labour migration and employment is regulated, which gives an additional opportunity to meet the needs of the labour market and thus the possibility of professional realization of Bulgarian citizens in third countries. The Commission received opinions on the draft by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior, the Employment Agency, the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, the four national representative employers' organisations, the two national representative trade unions, as well as the minutes of the meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 14 December 2015, with the attached opinions of the participants. All opinions are generally positive. The discussion was attended by MPs Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Hasan Ademov and Georgi Gokov. The importers were asked questions about the payment of foreign workers and specialists. The bill provides for a minimum payment threshold equal to the three times the average salary, which is currently valid only for highly qualified specialists - foreigners working in Bulgaria. Opinions were made on the adequate protection of the Bulgarian labour market from workers from third countries who could remove Bulgarian workers from their jobs. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 13 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u105	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. This was the report of the committee responsible for labour, social and demographic policy. There are four other committees involved. Before that, a proposal for admission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In connection with the discussion of the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill, I am making a procedural proposal in this House to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u107	We are voting on the proposal for the admission of Deputy Minister Donev to the Chamber. Vote 65 MPs: 62, none, abstention 3. Please invite Deputy Minister Donev to the Chamber. There are four other committees to which the Bill is assigned. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I don't see a representative of hers. The Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Mr. Petar Kanev has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u108	♪ I can't believe under the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 20 January 2016, examined and discussed the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 502 01 100, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Minister Galab Donev and Hristo Simeonov, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market Policy and representatives of employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Galab Donev. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to fully regulate the public relations relating to legal labour migration and labour mobility in a separate legislative act, to carry out the relevant part of the current Employment Promotion Act and its regulations, and to introduce subsequent new acts of the European Union. The bill regulates the regulation of the access to the Bulgarian labour market of workers for foreigners from third countries; implements the right of free movement in the Republic of Bulgaria to workers from another Member State of the European Union or a Member State under the Agreement on the European Economic Area; the employment of Bulgarian citizens in their free movement within the European Union/the Economic Area; the bilateral regulation of employment with third countries of both Bulgarian citizens on their territory and their citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Transitional and Final Provisions make corresponding changes to the Law on Employment Promotion, the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Law on Asylum and Refugees and the Law on Bulgarian Identity Documents. In its opinion, the State Agency for Refugees disagrees with the amendment proposed in § 6 for the extension of the period of three to nine months for acquiring the right of access to the labour market for refugees with non-compliance with international protection proceedings for reasons beyond their control. Syndical organizations support the bill in principle and disagree with the proposal to ease the recruitment of foreign specialists in the stagnated internal labour market and high unemployment. The employers' organisations support the adoption of the Bill in principle by expressing opposition to the high minimum threshold for paying highly qualified third-country nationals supplied to three average salaries per country over the last 12 months. This threshold negates the provision for imports of highly qualified specialists from third countries under light conditions, since in practice it makes it unnecessary in an extremely narrow range. They insist on applying art. 5, § 3 of Directive 2009/50/EC on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment, according to which the gross annual salary cannot be less than 1,5 times the average gross annual salary. They estimate as increased the maximum rates of the regulated fines and penalties reaching up to 20,000. lv. The large scissors between the minimum and maximum rates of the fines allows for subjective assessment of the control bodies, as well as for additional corruption pressure on the persons examined. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Martin Dimitrov expressed the opinion that the proposals of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria should be recognized by all MPs from the Commission and submitted between the two readings. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. With the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Atanas Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a labour migration and labour mobility bill, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015. At its meeting held on 27 January 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister, Mr. Hristo Simeonov, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market and Labour Mobility and Mr. Atanas Kolchakov, State Expert in the same Directorate. This bill aims to transpose into the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive 2014/54/EU on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights granted to workers in the context of the free movement of workers, Directive 2014/36/EU on the conditions of entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers and Directive 2014/61/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals within the framework of an intra-corporate transfer. The aim of those Directives is to ensure legal certainty for third-country nationals wishing to work within the European Union and for the labour market of host Member States. In addition, measures are envisaged to ensure a level playing field in the area of mobility for all European workers. It should be borne in mind that the deadline for introducing and notifying Directives in the national laws of the Member States expires in the middle of the first half of 2016. Chapter 3 of the Bill regulates the equal treatment of workers from other Member States of the European Union, as well as third countries, with Bulgarian citizens. It is related to a basic set of rights regarding their professional realization and their socio-economic life in the Republic of Bulgaria. The provisions in Chapter 4, for their part, concern the free movement of workers in the European Union. They comply with Regulation No 2011/492 and Directive 2014/54/EU, with the aim of guaranteeing the rights of nationals of other Member States of the European Union, of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation and of members of their families working in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Last but not least, the bill provides provisions on the protection of Bulgarian citizens working in third countries, as well as on the control of compliance with Bulgarian legislation in the field of labour migration and labour mobility. The main legal instrument governing relations in this area so far is the Employment Promotion Act. However, given the increasing number of provisions, the importer considers that it is necessary for these public relations to be fully regulated in a separate regulation to be carried over to the relevant part of the current Employment Promotion Act and its regulations and to transpose subsequent European legislation. In view of the above and as a result of the vote taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously, with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, proposed to adopt a Draft for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. The bill is allocated to two other committees, such as the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Legal Affairs, but both have not submitted reports. On behalf of Deputy Minister Donev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility pursues the main objective of the Bulgarian legislation in the area of the free movement of workers and the employment of foreigners of third-country nationals in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to be synchronised with the provisions of three new European Union Directives: Directive 2014/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers; Directive 2014/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on conditions for the entry and stay of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers and Directive 2014/66 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of an intra-corporate transfer. These are the three new directives that are included and introduced requirements for our national legislation. The entire bill brings together about 10 directives of the European Union, and some of them are the directives that are currently in place and operating in our national legislation, in Chapter Eight of the Employment Promotion Act. The role of these acts is to ensure legal certainty both for third-country nationals wishing to work within the European Union and for the host Member States' labour market. In addition, they are aimed at ensuring full equality in the area of mobility for European workers. The time limits within which the new three directives are to be notified shall be 21 May 2016 for Directive 2014/54 of the European Parliament, and the Bill on its entry into force is therefore set. The draft Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration provides a codification of existing legislation in the field of labour migration and labour mobility, which is currently fragmented with different types of regulations. At present, a fundamental legal instrument for introducing the European law acquis in the field of labour migration and the free movement of workers in national law is the Law on the promotion of employment and its regulations. Each of the sections in Chapter "Trudy migration from third countries" from the Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Act introduces specific procedures for granting the right of access to the relevant categories of workers foreigners from third countries to the Bulgarian labour market. They fully correspond to the subject matter and personal scope of the above directives and to the moved in order to codify matter in this Draft Chapter 8 of the Employment Promotion Act. The role, rights and obligations of each interested party in the application process, obtaining authorisations from the Employment Agency and issuing the relevant type of residence permits and work by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior under a single procedure are highlighted. Separate sections are also devoted to national permissions to gain access to the Bulgarian labour market, including freelance activities, issued by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency on a model approved by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. A single chapter of the Draft Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration is devoted to equal treatment of workers foreigners from the European Union with Bulgarian citizens, as well as third countries, with regard to a free set of rights concerning their professional realization, their social and economic life in the Republic of Bulgaria. This is necessary in view of the increasing importance of access to social rights with the acquis of European law as a means of attracting workers and employees, including from third countries in the territory of the European Union, of which there is a shortage in the European labour market, in particular of highly qualified and on the line of intra-corporate transfers, as well as seasonal employment. The questions about the free movement of workers in the European Union are covered by the project of the Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration. The provisions are entirely in line with Directive 2014/54 and Regulation 2011/492/EU and introduce separate regulations thereof, and the main objective is to provide sufficient guarantees for the protection of the rights of workers in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria nationals of other Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation, as well as members of their families. The draft is agreed within the National Council for Employment Promotion, the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, discussed and uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Council of Ministers for Public Discussion, reflected all the opinions of the national representative organizations of trade unions and employers, and was underlined by the reports of the Chairs of the various committees to which the bill was allocated, the main controversial moment in the Law is art. 18, para. 3 of it, introducing the requirement that employers pay three times the average annual salary for the 12 months preceding the appointment for highly qualified workers from third countries. This requirement is a national norm aimed at preserving and guaranteeing the rights of Bulgarian citizens and keeping the Bulgarian labour market from hiring highly qualified workers from third countries, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the requirement of the directive for one and a half increases in salary for highly qualified workers from third countries is in art. 17. With ease of regime art. 18 removes the market test that each employer has to do before applying for the employment of a highly qualified third-country worker, i.e. shorten the period within which that single permit may be granted to third-country foreigners. At present, a requirement has been introduced for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to determine annually the deficit professions that can benefit from this eased regime under art. 18, as this regime is currently implemented in the draft Law on Labour Mobility and Labour Migration. This is very briefly the submitted and proposed Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u114	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The objectives of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility submitted by the Council of Ministers and the reasons with which they submit it to the National Assembly are clear. It is clear that a process of free movement of labour exists and, in my opinion, there is nothing wrong with regulating it. It is clear that such a law must have, in order to introduce requirements of certain EU directives which have a period of notification this year, and thus to ensure legal certainty for those willing to work within the Republic of Bulgaria as part of the European Union and third-country nationals also to guarantee certain rights in the host Bulgarian market. Furthermore, by transposing these directives, I hope that it will be guaranteed in full volume and equal treatment in the area of mobility for European workers. For me, however, it is no less important that this Law carries out a unification of the regulations in this area.... the field of labour migration and labour mobility, because it is currently extremely fragmented in various regulations, mainly in the Law on the Promotion of Employment, its sub-regulation acts and in some other laws and regulations. I think the exact legal term for this unification is the code. Now, at the moment, I am not talking about experts from state services and institutions dealing with these problems, but about experts from experts, or rather about employees from a company who need to prepare documents for hiring a specialist from either the European Union or from a third country outside the European Union, is extremely difficult by the fragmented legal framework. This specialist has to dig through a number of legal documents that they forward from one place to another, and this creates difficulties for themselves, and also for public services and employees who, without obligation, give constant consultations in this direction. In practice, serious problems and conflicts are created. When presenting the bill in the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy it became clear that it was developed within an interdepartmental group, where all interested parties were involved: ministries, institutions, offices, as well as national representative employers' and trade union organizations in Bulgaria and that it was agreed in the National Employment Promotion Council and in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. All of this should make it consensus, but by reading carefully the texts of the Law, by reading the opinions of the social partners and by consulting colleagues from the institutions who directly concern them with the problems of labour mobility and migration, these are the Employment Agency, the Labour Inspectorate, they have and will have a bearing on the implementation of this Law and, accordingly, on the control of its implementation, a few concerns arose in me. First of all, this is art. 18, para. 1 and para. 3 of the proposed Bill. Alinea 1 makes the cancellation of the market test for certain specialties. I am far from thinking that we should make employers difficult by making them do such a market test, but this test was originally recorded in the legislation for 45 days, then reduced to 30 days, and it does not make it so difficult for them. If one employer has seriously decided to hire a worker or foreign employee at work with him, the whole procedure, with a reduced market test period of 30 days, takes 40 However, by removing this market test, although only for certain specific professions, we are making a breakthrough in our labour market, and believe me, it needs protection because, however low wages in Bulgaria, there are willing from other countries where the conditions are even worse, to come to Bulgaria. There are also dishonest employers who employ such a workforce that undermines the price of ours. The experts are probably right, who fear that this will prevent the normal raising of incomes in Bulgaria. I can also mention here the subjectivism of presenting lists of professions for which no market test will be required. I can also mention the possibility of uncontrolled impacts on those who I am referring to as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will prepare these lists. My other concern is al. 3. These three larger salaries for the employed workers three times the average for the given job and profession in Bulgaria is also disturbing. As far as I know, the recommendation is one and a half times higher salary than the average salary for the job. Do not think that I am lobbying in any way for employers, because, when I look at the opinion, the same thing I am saying is written there, but in this problem it should be seriously considered at least because of the fact that there are professions with a deficit in our labour market and thus we will close the possibility of hiring foreigners in the free places of the Bulgarian labour market. In general, the bill can be supported. At this stage, because of art. 18 and because of the lack of regulations guaranteeing the explicitly compulsory language training................................................................................................... It is because of these two things that I mentioned that I will refrain at first reading. I think that between first and second readings we should all together, and especially importers, see where compromises can be made. My firm opinion is that al. 1 of art. 18 should be dropped, and for al. 3 we need to find some compromise amount of pay as a paycheck. I hope that nothing will push us into time and adopt this law in time, as we have done with some other social laws in the field of labour and social policy, so that we have time together to adopt a good law that will meet the needs of the Bulgarian business, Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state, a good law that not only mechanically transposes European directives and not only facilitate employers and foreign workers who wish to work in Bulgaria, but also protect our national labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u115	Any lines to Mr. Gokov? Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u116	Thank you, Madam President. The patriotic front will support the bill. Here I will note that our main remarks are regarding the protection of the Bulgarian labour market, especially of Bulgarian workers and employees, the mandatory introduction of the requirement for Bulgarian language, and what is more, this law must be very seriously refined with regard to the already adopted Law on Foreigners in Bulgaria, as there are texts that enter into a colony. And there are also texts that enter the Coliseum with the already voted Professional Qualifications Bill. I appeal to my fellow Members to support the Law, but between first and second readings I will ask for a longer period to allow my fellow Members to take a good look at this bill, as it is a new law and must be very carefully examined and refined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u117	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? There are no lines. Do other MPs wish to take part in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u118	Thank you, Madam President. The draft proposed by the Council of Ministers is agreed by the National Council for Labour Migration, agreed by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Almost all employers' and trade unions have supported the proposed Bill, with small exceptions, which colleagues have just spoken about. This is a brand new Law, which practically introduces three new directives. A large part of the orders of these directives have already found their application and are notified in the Law on Employment Promotion, in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship and in regulations, but the texts proposed at the moment are related to ensuring legal certainty in the free movement of workers and employees, on the one hand. Various directives propose the status of workers and employees in relation to the European Council directives on the conditions for entry and stay of third-country nationals for employment as seasonal workers, on the conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals under intra-corporate transfer. All these issues are duly settled in the respective directives and now find their place in the Bulgarian legislation. On the other hand, the opportunities for the employment of Bulgarian citizens in third countries are regulated, the provisions that guarantee the conclusion of agreements between individual countries to guarantee the rights of Bulgarian citizens who have to work in third countries. All these issues are settled in the proposed Bill. The idea of this bill is that all issues related to this serious part of social policy, namely labour migration and labour mobility, should be collected in a single legislative act. All this is done to allow for further dynamic changes in labour migration and labour mobility policies, in the same bill to find a place for the relevant problems. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed Bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u119	He's got to get into the gym. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u120	Madam President, I would like the procedure to be considered between first and second readings to be four weeks, the maximum time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-10.u121	I understand that you are proposing a maximum deadline for proposals under the Second Voting Bill. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to extend the deadline to the maximum possible, in which to make proposals for a second vote on the bill just adopted at the first vote. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. There's only one minute left until 2:00. This is where I'm going to call off the meeting due to the expiration of the appointed time. Tomorrow, we continue with the second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Promotion of Research. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting 9:00. This plenary sitting is adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
