ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. My fellow Members, I recall that after the debate on requests from 69 MPs, a vote of mistrust to the government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in the field of health will be held today. I propose on the grounds of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, after the vote, to discuss and vote on the draft declaration concerning the deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by the blockades of Greek farmers. After the Declaration to include in the Programme for today as point two: A draft decision to establish a Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the internal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. And as point three: Changes to permanent committees of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the proposals made to include additional items on the agenda. They voted 210 MPs: 187, against 5, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u2	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Today, we will vote a vote of distrust.. the first vote of distrust of the cabinet Boyko Borisov #2. Because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and is not yet prime minister [[GERB noise and lines]] because Bulgaria is a republic and not a monarchy, I suggest, in particular, I insist that the Prime Minister be called in. [[GERB noise and lines]] To attend the first vote of distrust. It's his duty, and it's also his right, as he might be able to give us some news of another suspended procurement. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] So I suggest that he be called here today. [[Applause from BSP LB. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u3	Dear Mr. Enchev, as you know, I am convinced that you have informed the MP and the monitoring of the information emissions, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is on a Council outside the country and there is no way from Brussels to come now to attend the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] One message: On the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure I am informed by the MP Petar Slavov and a group that they withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement to the Election Code on 11 November 2015. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO VOICE THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISOV FOR HIS HEALTH POLICY. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. I would like to remind you: Project! DECISION on the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He voted mistrustful of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of his health policy. Voting mode. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, with this excitement in the Chamber, I find it difficult to think about what the outcome will be. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Vote 215 MPs: 80 against 130, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]] I thank the cabinet members for their presence in voting on the first vote of mistrust. [[The Ministers are leaving the Chamber.]] Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION WITH REGARD TO THE CROSSING CROSS OF THE BULGARIAN-GREEN CROSS CROSS CROSSED BY THE BLOCADES OF FERMERES. A report came in from the Foreign Policy Committee. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a draft declaration concerning the deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by the blockades of Greek farmers, No 654-03-2, submitted by Gemma Grozdanova, Krasimir Karakachanov, Boris Stanimirov, Georgi Kuchukov, Stanislav Anastasov, Christian Vigenin and Kancho Filipov on 18 February 2016. On 18 February 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined a draft declaration concerning the deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by the blockades of Greek farmers. We are witnessing a deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by blockades of Greek farmers. These illegal actions lead to significant direct and indirect losses for the Bulgarian economy. The inaction of the Greek authorities on the normalisation of the crossing regime shows a systemic problem which should be addressed not only at bilateral level, but also within the framework of the EU membership of the two countries. On the basis of a 14-vote vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the National Assembly adopt the following declaration: DECLARATION at the forty-third National Assembly in connection with the deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by the blockades of Greek farmers - noting the ongoing several weeks of illegal blockade at checkpoints at the border between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic, organised by Greek citizens; - Stressing the deepening conflict situation on both sides of the blocked border crossings provoked by the actions of the protesters from the Greek side; - Having determined the inability of the Greek authorities to carry out adequate control at the crossing points along the border with Bulgaria; - Recalling the commitments made by Greece to the Member States of the European Union and the fundamental right to free movement of goods, services, capital and people; - Pointing out the extremely negative consequences for the Bulgarian economy and, in particular, for the Bulgarian carriers, Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. He does not accept the Greek blocking at crossing points at the border with Bulgaria. 2. urges the Greek authorities to take the necessary measures to bring order and ensure free movement across the border. 3. He insists that the responsible Bulgarian institutions continue their efforts towards resolving the crisis in a bilateral way. 4. Calls on the European Commission, in its role as guardian of the European treaties, to take immediate action on the case, including to initiate a criminal procedure against the Greek Government; 5. Expresses confidence that the crisis will not be allowed by a Greek country to lead to a deterioration in bilateral relations. [[Strong noise in the block of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u5	Colleagues on the left, I think the subject is serious enough to take photographs in plenary. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u6	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The problem with the blockades of the Bulgarian Greek border does not happen for the first time. It's probably the seventh or eighth blockade at the border. Not one and two Bulgarian governments were placed in time before the test to solve a problem that is not dependent on the Bulgarian authorities and which is not caused by Bulgarian citizens. The last blockade has once again shown that in neighbouring Greece certain terms or political formations, I stress the political formations, because if you had seen the flags waving at the border, it would have made it clear to you what political ideas we are talking about.. allow themselves to solve domestic political problems in their country, damaging hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. It's mostly about carriers. Yes, indeed they are the most victims, but at the same time the victims are many other Bulgarian economic entities who rely on the cargo that is being transported. Only in the last case more than 200 small enterprises, mainly in Western Bulgaria, have closed and stopped work due to the lack of raw materials, which they supplied with this transport. It is high time for Bulgaria to express a clearer and firmer position. We have seen the position of the Minister of Transport, who has been on the border several times. Bulgarian MEPs, Bulgarian mayors, Bulgarian MPs reacted. I think it is high time to give a hint to the European institutions, as well as to neighbouring Greece, that such actions are unacceptable because they violate and harm the economic interests of Bulgarian companies, thus leading to losses of Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian budget. The impression you've all acquired, I think it's common. In fact, it is about internal political problems in Greece, which quite deliberately the Greek administrative authorities do not resolve with the argument that the strike is illegal. The arguments that were put forward by the Minister of Transport and by the MEPs and by the MPs, the answers of the chiefs of police in Serres, of the regional governor by Greece were: There is a practice in the European Parliament to close borders, to damage neighbouring countries, but there are sanctions imposed in this regard. This is precisely why the declaration, which we are about to vote on today, was the subject of talks between the importers, which represent all or almost all parliamentary groups in the Bulgarian National Assembly. I will not hide that in an initial version there were far more serious situations, but in the name of the consensus, in the name of this Bulgarian National Assembly on a matter which concerns the Bulgarian economy, which concerns our dignity as a sovereign state, there is this compromise that is good for me and therefore I call on my colleagues from all parliamentary groups to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u7	The debate is open. Mr. Minister, you can also, if you wish, take up the draft declaration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words. First of all, I would like to say that I am proud of the fact that I have the opportunity to be a minister of Bulgarian carriers. I stand entirely behind them. A moment ago, a few minutes ago, I was accused by Mr. Dikov in the hallway that I led Bulgarian carriers to illegal acts. If they accept it that way, it is because I firmly stand by them and will fully stand up for their rights and their demands! [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask you to support this Declaration in order to protect not only the interest of the Bulgarian carriers. In the columns standing along the border, there are thousands of trucks that are of European carriers with Hungarian, Austrian, Czech, Polish numbers. The European Union's right to free movement of goods and people, illegal by Greece, has been violated. I will allow myself to say that I think it is relevant to Bulgaria, because there is no way, when it comes to negotiations, to open the border in a few hours, to ensure that it is guaranteed by the Greek authorities and not to guarantee full opening of the border. That is to say, their claim that it has no influence on the process and that it is out of control is obviously not true, as there is no way to guarantee the opening of the border in a few hours. They've been brutally mocking each other with nearly five or six thousand trucks. Keep in mind that we hold with teams inside the country quite a lot of heavy goods vehicles in directions from Vidin, Ruse, Kyustendil. So this could hardly have lasted a long time. Perhaps the pressure could escalate even further. I ask you to accept this Declaration and to do our best if representatives of the European Union or of other countries are to come, in this case, damaged by these illegal acts of the Greek State or of the Greek farmers, since the State claims that there is nothing it can do. Their behavior is outrageous. Every day there's a drunken act on their part. They deliberately challenge our carriers, play music, dance, eat, drink. Against the backdrop of this, of course, and Greek drivers are totally in trouble. With great effort, we were able to provide, including the Greek column, for food and water. You understand that drivers cannot rely on any hygiene conditions. They're literally in trouble! Please, each of you with whatever opportunities you have, to influence this process in order to be resolved as quickly as possible. Our demands are basically two that we passed on to the Greek side. First of all, we do not believe that if a time window is provided again, it will function sustainablely. That's why we asked for a 100% pick-up on their side. This includes the withdrawal of all agricultural machinery, as if physically removed from the border, does not prevent them from returning after half an hour, putting two tractors back on the track and not being able to pass. So we absolutely want to withdraw the entire agricultural practice, as it does not belong there. There's a few hundred tractors and a combine. Secondly, we want their police to provide a cordon and a route so they can't go back and put the equipment back there and have a free passage route. That's what we betrayed when we negotiated with them, and we were denied. Thank you if you support this Declaration. You know he'll be highly appreciated by all the carriers, by all the people who are in distress there. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any MPs who would like to express their position? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u10	Mrs. President, colleagues from Ataka we will support this statement, although unfortunately it is only of a wishful thinking, as it is of a desirable nature and the walking of many of the Bulgarian MPs at the moment on the Bulgarian-Greek border, where to lie to the Bulgarian carriers that they will solve their problem. Yeah, they're piling up political dividends. We also saw MEPs who went there, Bulgarian MEPs, lie, promise, and people sit blocked for days. When we talk about the Bulgarian carriers, the problem is not only that we do not forget the business as a whole in Blagoevgrad region, the business suffers in Sandanski, the business suffers in Petrich, in Gotse Delchev, everywhere. After all, fellow Members, we must answer what the European Union has done on this matter.... this European Union, to which we are members? What happened to one of the fundamental principles of the European Union for the free passage of people, goods, services and capital? In fact, it is evident that the European Union is not working, it is not functioning, it is just on paper that it has some activity. And this crisis had to happen at the Bulgarian-Greek border to really see that the European Union is not functioning. I ask the Bulgarian government: what did you do about it? Was there no one to tap on the table, to claim compensation in the amount of tens of millions of dollars that lost both Bulgarian carriers and business in general? We keep quiet, we keep repeating about Euro-Atlantic values, about the European Union, how we are full members, how we can be trusted. Yes, but when we need this European Union that you have been promoting for years, it is gone. It doesn't work, it doesn't work, and the whole country suffers. Once again, we will support this declaration from Attack. My request is that you stop lying to people, that you'll solve their problem, why you won't solve it for them, and we will accept it willingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u11	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u12	You will allow me to disagree with you, Mr. Todorov. There are many problems on which we, as Bulgarian MPs, stress, Bulgarian, must be united. The fact that Bulgarian MEPs, Bulgarian MPs, mayors, the minister and others went to the Bulgarian border is very good because years ago in the first cases, in other cases, Bulgarian institutions did not react. The fact that someone has gone and done his duty, he has made the effort to enter Greek territory, to deal with drunk, dancing, holding flags with yellow stars, sickles and hammers people, honors every MEP, every Bulgarian MP, every Bulgarian minister, every Bulgarian mayor. Come on, at least on some issues that concern all Bulgarian citizens............ and the economy, not only the carriers..... not to look for dividends, spitting on their political opponents, because some have bothered to go, others have not bothered to go. Now you blame those who have done their duty. Let us be united for once and solve the problems of the Bulgarian people. Regarding the solution of the issue, I turn to the Minister of Transport and to the Bulgarian Government in absentia in his person the problem of the salvation of such blackmails and in the perspective is the realization of Corridor No 8 "Strategic project, which is precisely thanks to the lobbying interests of Greece has been stopped several times. When we build a secure transport corridor for both the Bulgarian business and the business from Central Asia, the Middle East, Northern Europe, then we will not be dependent on playing Sirtaki and drinking uzo drunk trotskyists and anarchocommunists. Thank you. [[Reply.]] And Maoists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u13	Colleagues, you must have more epithets and characteristics in your vocabulary. Second line, Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Todorov! Congratulations on expressing support for the declaration, because the aim of this declaration is to show the unification of the Bulgarian Parliament in terms of illegal and I believe that trendful actions by Greek farmers, farmers with blocking of the Bulgarian-Greek border. Let me disagree that we should try to achieve some political dividends from the situation. If I may, I'd like to make a personal statement. These blockades, which are trendy and already have been put into practice, are blockades that are being conducted as clear and in my opinion a targeted policy towards Bulgaria by the Greek authorities. What do I mean? If the blockade tries to solve any internal political problems in the territory of our neighbouring country, they will not close just one border between two neighbouring Member States of the European Union. What I want to tell you is that to some extent these actions achieve their goals, because the problems they create on business in border areas are very big. Recently, Bulgarian business has been trying to be competitive on the basis of all common European practices or the generally accepted European free market economy and thus they find their markets mostly in the neighbouring countries of the European Union. This largely reflects on the Greek business because, in time, this business is used to being subsidised and assisted by European money. For me personally, the state really needs to take this problem to a higher level at European Union level, to European thinking and to find a lasting solution, because the problem is not institutional, the problem is political and is supported by the entire Greek state in the face of the Greek government. Personally, I will support the declaration and I think that we all need to unite around this declaration so that we can show clearly and precisely that the Bulgarian Parliament does not support these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Andonov. You're running out of time. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u16	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Karakachanov, yes, your MEP Angel Dzhambazki goes to Greece, but what did it end? Tell me what's over.! Empty promises! And today, on the anniversary of the Apostle of Liberty, Vasil Levski, let us think of some of his words: "Dells are necessary, not words! " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u17	The word for speech is Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! What is happening at the Greek border is a tragedy for the European Union as a whole because, in my opinion, it is unacceptable for European citizens to hinder the genuine rights of European citizens such as the free movement of goods. What's happening is a fact. The fact is that, as the minister mentioned earlier, there was a request on our part for 100% elimination of the blockade and their police to ensure the possibility of free movement of goods and people. This thing doesn't happen, and it's denied. I ask: why is it that the Greek side, with its apparatus in the face of the Greek Ministry of Interior, cannot cope with fifty people who are currently playing the whole of Europe? This is unacceptable, as is unacceptable and the fact that the Greek Government as a whole has no reaction. That, in my opinion, and according to my colleagues, is unacceptable. I can't answer the question: what problem is this?? Is this a problem between Bulgaria and Greece alone? He's not like that! This is the European Union's problem. This problem is blocking European corridors. These European corridors are fundamental and the free movement on them is the right of each Member State and of every citizen. Colleagues, I believe that there should be no speeches like the previous ones here, but we should simply all support this declaration. I would like to thank the Foreign Commission for taking this initiative. This proposal is absolutely timely. This proposal must really be supported by everyone, because otherwise we are witnessing humiliation not only of one Member State, but of the whole European Union by a country which is also a member state and a country which must respect its responsibilities as such. I really propose that we all support this declaration and from now on, the European Union with its mechanisms to seek a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u19	Any lines to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u20	Madam President, Members of Parliament, the Declaration made the problem very clear. The same things are being said by all of us right now. I suggest we move on to a vote and continue to mind our own business.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u21	Mr. Atanasov, we don't have such a procedural opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u22	That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u23	It is not permissible under our Rules of Procedure to deprive the parliamentary groups of the time at which they have to debate the first vote and when discussing draft decisions. [[Reply from MP Slavcho Atanasov.]] And as a call to them? Okay, that's how I understand you. Colleagues, remember Mr. Atanasov's call. Before that, however, Mr. Imamov's statement; after him................... by Mr. Vigenin................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u24	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members, I will be very brief. I will not repeat what has already been said by this tribune. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this declaration. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, on behalf of the group, I dealt with the National Assembly with this problem because I know him well enough. For years, these protests have not been episodes. They are the so-called winter agricultural protests in Greece and we know very well the consequences of them. I also want to say that the Greek business suffers from these protests. Recently, we have seen a very serious clash between representatives of the Greek business along the border, who are also suffering extreme losses. In the border regions along the Greek border, the employment rate of the population is significantly higher than the rest of the country. This is largely due to our Greek friends who develop their business there and rely on good communications across the border with their counterparties in Bulgaria. We must seek a lasting solution to the problem. One of the options has been mentioned by Mr. Karakachanov and we strongly support it. There are other options, Mr. Karakachanov. These are the waters of the river Lossa and the river Struma, for which we also have agreements with the Greek side. We will support all the proposals and measures that are really looking for a lasting solution to this traditional winter carnival across the border. We support the declaration and call on all Members to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Imamov. The word is Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in the spirit of Mr. Slavcho Atanasov's proposal, quite telegraphically: the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is going to support this declaration. We were involved in her preparation. I hope that Mr. Boyko Borisov's absence from parliament today and his participation in the European Council in Brussels will help to put this issue in a way that will quickly lead to its resolution both bilaterally with the prime minister of Greece and with the institutions in Brussels. I also hope that the declaration, which I am convinced, today we will adopt unanimously or at least almost unanimously, will be a clear sign to both the institutions and the Greek side. It is a first step towards a sufficiently clear position from the Bulgarian side that it is not possible for two neighbouring friendly countries, for years developing close relations, to undergo similar actions by a group of protesters, however serious the problems they want to solve through these protests. Moreover, the doubt remains that the very fact that the Greek side is allowing this blockade to continue seems more like an attempt and a form of pressure on the European Union to demonstrate how severe the requirements that the government in Athens is forced to accept with regard to its own citizens are. Three concrete proposals are missing, but I believe they will be heard. Firstly, since this is not the first such protest and I am sure that in the future there will probably also be, in the coming months, after the acute phase of this crisis is resolved, to seek directly the Greek side to reach an agreement precisely and specifically on these issues so as to ensure that such cases are not allowed from this year onwards. Secondly, to consider compensation mechanisms, including at national level. In this direction, some requests have also been made, but I believe that in addition to support, including experts from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy, for the Bulgarian carriers who may turn to the relevant courts in order to request compensation from the Greek side, there should also be a corresponding national compensation mechanism in such cases and similar cases. Thirdly, since there is virtually no fund at European level to compensate for such cases in particular, by the way, they are not the only ones in the European Union, I suppose that in the future they will increase, I think that it would be our contribution and a good occasion, on the basis of what is happening, that Bulgaria should propose that the European Commission develop a similar mechanism to ensure that businesses, especially the average and small ones, who are particularly threatened in such cases, can receive the corresponding compensation, as is otherwise unpredictable, as are natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, for several weeks now both Bulgarian institutions and Bulgarian private entrepreneurs and carriers are facing a problem that we miss to look at in its entirety and put it in the system of common European relations. This declaration is extremely timely. I think she should have been admitted earlier. It will receive the support of the entire Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian Socialist Party. At the same time, we should be aware of the reasons that led to the current situation, I would say, of the Bulgarian-Greek relations, because this is not about a few tens or several hundred, as some of the Greek citizens, in particular, decided to close the barrier. This is a simplistic view of the issue, which I do not wish to come from the Bulgarian Parliament. It is a question that our neighbour has only been under serious pressure a year ago by the European Commission, by the European Central Bank, a number of measures of financial, political and economic nature have been taken to her, and we should not be so easy to forget what happened in Greece a year ago. The current situation in relations between Greece and the European institutions put on the agenda in the European Union the issue of the state and place of financial relations, economic relations between countries and the question of the practical realization of our so-called common values. If these common values of our European Union were more than values and words on paper, we would not be facing this situation today. And here we must clearly realise that what is written on paper does not mean that governments do it. What is written on the paper does not mean that at times when countries have to resolve sharp domestic, social and political issues, they do not pull away from the common agreements, they do not abandon our common supposed values and at the same time realize their own national policy in the narrow interest of their national interests. We, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, should always bear this in mind, so that it does not turn out that we are the ones who have maintained common values and finally prove that these common values are maintained only by us. The systemic blockade of the Greek border, the complicated relations with the Republic of Turkey are a matter which is entirely of competence at the time of the executive power in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian government. [[Heckling]] The current situation of the Greek border is the result of the inconsistent, vague foreign policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u29	The lines after that from the stands and not from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u30	The priorities that are followed in foreign policy are primarily aimed at achieving a brilliant interaction with Brussels in favour of the ever-embracing so-called funds. External policy, as it turns out, honourable Members, is something much wider and much more complicated. Because at some point when relations in Europe are destroyed, and they are when international trust is lost when interstate relations are sharpened, the question arises about the place, role and position of the Bulgarian government, which is not today. There's no such position! The transporters have reached self-defense at the border. I respect the efforts of the transport minister Mr. Moskovski, and I respect the efforts of other ministers who have committed to the issue of the regional leadership in Blagoevgrad, but, as you can see, the issue cannot be resolved in this way because Greece is suffering from unfair relations in the European Union. This is a country that was put on its knees a year ago and a nation that was humiliated systematically and consistently by European media, by German newspapers, by the English and French newspapers. [[Noise and lines.]] Where was our society then to protect its neighbors? This is solidarity, honourable Members, when trust here in the Balkans is restored when the peoples of the Balkans start to understand each other again. I'm not talking about some idealistic painting, I'm talking about trust among the nations. Then the system blockades at the border will be an element of the past. Because when we rely on Corridor No. 8, which will provide the question, we are just another sucker. As the Shops say in a few jokes, there is no corridor that cannot be closed. Dear colleagues, what is this corridor that will cross the border and not be able to be closed?! Isn't there another society on the other side standing our Greek neighbours with their interests, with their views, with their ambitions? All this we need to understand and they need to understand us. Otherwise, there is nothing left for us to do but build new wire fences along the border and David to come constantly to check our border, to touch the wire network and to travel with Mr. Borisov, documenting in the world media how beautiful the Republic of Bulgaria is. In order not to continue to be in this state, I call on the government and the Foreign Ministry in particular. I do not know why the Minister of Foreign Affairs allowed himself to send the carriers to the Greek court, does he not know what will happen there? Personally, this sounded to me like a position that says: "See what, it is a private issue, it is not an interstate one, and I therefore welcome the government that it is evolving in its position, tasked Parliament to make a declaration, and here we are happy to accept it today. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, if we do not rethink our Balkan policy, when we think that Brussels will forcefully place the Greek government where it belongs, and we will clap here and only wait with the trucks to go through the barrier, that is the simplest, most stupid, I would say, the most naive approach in international relations. There is no country in the European Union that, despite its national interests, will adopt the decisions of the European Commission, perhaps apart from Bulgaria, unfortunately, I say so. So let us accept this declaration. I think the text is good and there are not those moments that we heard here from the stands because there was a danger of such extreme assessments. They should not be given, trust should not be destroyed if it is damaged. Let us respect the fight of other societies and nations for their freedoms and their interests to respect us too. I therefore call for the support of the Declaration and for the activity of all Members in this National Assembly in the direction of the Parliament of Greece, of our Greek colleagues to restore relations, not to lead to a rift, because our region is placed in a delicate situation. We are in the middle of the peninsula of our wisdom, our tact and foreign policy skill depends on the general climate of the Balkans. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. During your speech there were lines from the hall, but I don't know if there will be any from the stands? Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, today we have seen that BSP, in addition to defending Russia's interests, can also protect Greece's interests. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Revelations: "Eee! " Applause on the right.]] However, we are in this hall to protect the interests of Bulgaria and Bulgarian society, Bulgarian business, Bulgarian carriers and Bulgarians living near the Greek border. We cannot feel solidarity and empathy towards people who block our border and prevent Bulgarian transporters from doing their job. That's why the Declaration is, and that's why it will be supported by the entire House. I believe that no one will be against it and no one will be abstentioned. Then I don't see where the need to protect other people's interests comes from. I know you do it well. As far as one country is concerned, we're already used to it, but, come on, limit yourself to it. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u33	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u34	Dear Mr. Zablyanov, in recent years in Bulgaria we have witnessed numerous protests of both farmers and farmers, tobacco producers, farmers. However, the Bulgarian state has never transferred the problem to another country, whether it is neighbourly or not. Always in Bulgaria, protests have passed very well and democraticly, without breaking European values or our relations with other countries. In this case, the problem that the Greek farmers have is actually a problem of the Greek government. As for our good neighbourly relations, more than once Prime Minister Borisov has defended positions that are the same as those of Greece, as regards the refugee problem and others. We should not be putting this particular relationship on the line today, but we need to focus on where the problem is and it is in the Greek state and government that is currently in charge. So I think the Declaration is a good sign precisely that we are also concerned about this problem, but those who need to solve it are the Greek authorities. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u35	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u36	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, we have repeatedly seen how the facts and circumstances are distorted, including in the Committee on Foreign Policy. But in the end, we must now protect and defend the Bulgarian national interest. This is every time to talk about cucumbers and to refer the matter to another country, which is not even currently involved in the conflict, in some way seems relevant. After all, we must in some way now protect our own country and realise that the problem is not in it, the problem lies in another country, precisely in relation to which we accept today's Declaration. So I call on this, on the one hand, Euroscepticism, which sometimes sounds in your speeches, but also at the moment a disregard for how our country defends its interests, not to go forward and not to be broken up through the fact that now in Greece, in the end, it is ruling an extreme left-wing party. In your speech, it sounded a little bit like you were trying to justify Greece in some way, but let us, however, as Bulgarian MPs, be guided by what is important to us as a country and say clearly and categorically: the Bulgarian side has done everything in its power to prevent what is happening at the time of the border. And if from here on we do not realize that the efforts we are making should be in the direction of solution in a way that is favorable for Bulgaria, then perhaps, I do not know, the place is not for the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u37	A hole, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Frankly, I didn't expect any lines from my speech, and I'm very surprised. [[GERB's line.]] No, I'm not fascinated. You couldn't charm me. I mean, I can't find any element of Euroscepticism, Eurooptimism or all those concepts that were used in the lines. It seems to me that the positions from which we need to reason are realism, a slightly greater depth, and my appeal to the government and specifically to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to deepen the issue and not to forward the Bulgarian carriers to the Greek court, from which they will receive nothing, is an expression of nothing but the understanding that politics should serve the people, not Brussels and not anyone to go on a business trip there when they vote for him a vote of mistrust! That's what this is about. And when these fundamental things of politics are not understood, there are such lines, but I really have no place to start commenting on them, because the content remained a mystery, in my opinion, and about the replicating themselves. Thank you for your attention. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u39	The word for speech is Rosen Petrov. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We will support this Declaration of the Bulgarian National Assembly with the clear awareness of the crisis we are facing. There were many different views here. I could also ask a lot of questions, say why the Tower is blocked, and not blocked the port in Thessaloniki or in Pyrea, but I will save it. We really need to stick to good neighbourly relations with Greece. But using one of their sayings, I'd say, "Friendship is friendship, and cheese is money." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u41	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I almost gave up my speech, I cried, to tell you. I was very moved by these terrible repressions against Greece by the European Union. Well, God forbid Bulgaria could repress us with 600 billion, and we could close the borders. That's basically it. I suggest that we add the following text in the declaration: The National Assembly is empathetic with the difficulties of the Bulgarian carriers and does not reproach their reciprocal actions. I think that such an addition has a serious and practical meaning, because to our carriers, when they close the border, police action is being applied, let me not say a lot of questions, recordings, mandatory instructions and so on. In this way we will not call for breaking the law, but we will express our moral position of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u43	Could you indicate where in particular in the text? [[Definitions between President Tsetska Tsacheva and National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Colleagues, you have the floor to speak until he has specified the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u44	Dear lady, colleagues! I have the claim to know the situation specifically of the House and to tell you that, unlike some people who have been practicing speaking here, I have been at these protests for several years in a row. [[Reply from the back of the room: "Go back there. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u45	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u46	I'll go, but it's not bad for you to go. I would like to tell you that protests are not just farmers' protests, as they tried to defend from the left that they were people, and they were entitled to some protest actions and protection. Colleagues, if you get to know each other a little bit more, you'll see that these farmers' protests are entirely directed. They are supported and financed by the Greek Government. I'll tell you this. [[Heckling]] It's bad, yeah, it's not good. At 6:00 a.m. there are only two protesters on the Greek side, but they continue to move tractors, machines and others. I want to tell you something else. No one mentioned the merit of the governor, the merit of the Minister of Transport, the Deputy Ministers. [[Replication by National Representative Valeri Zablyanov]] , the merit of the consul in Thessaloniki and so on, which were repeatedly at such meetings and talks. In contrast, Mr. Zablyanov, which you wanted to say that the government is not aware, I will only point out to you that a few years ago, during the first GERB government, Mr. Borisov was personally at the protest. Unfortunately, however, when it was your Oresharski government, then even the minister did not come down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u47	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u48	So when you talk, get a little more acquainted with the facts. Another thing I want to tell you. The mayors of Petrich, Sandanski, Gotse Delchev are constantly there, constantly there are teams that meet the needs of the people. You do not know what things have been done to be able on the Greek side of these carriers, both ours and strangers, to help them, to give them at least water, to give them some food, because there is a whole section where there are no restaurants, there is no one to drink a coffee. That is why I fully support the Declaration. I think we should all support her unanimously. I also support the Minister's actions towards responding to the Greek side, because I think this is the only solution to the issue. They may be more drastic measures in two, three, four days, but they will resolve the matter permanently. Otherwise, every year, six or seven years in a row, in the period when Greek farmers do not have a job, come, feast there, are supported by their authorities, at the same time their families come from the other side of the border to shop, and when it comes their families to go home to Greece, the border opens in two or three hours. That is why it is the right position of the protesters on our side and what the mayor supported protests on one side, adequate protests on the other side! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u49	Any lines to Mr. Tanev? I won't. Personal explanation Mrs. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Look, we're careful what happens in our interstate relations, you're not paying attention to what we say from the stands. I've carefully identified all those who have contributed in the last week. I may have missed someone, but it was from memory. I'm sorry if anyone felt hurt that they didn't contribute. Secondly, indirectly, you confirmed what I said: if the Greek Government is not impartial in terms of what is going on, but is involved in some indirect way, as you, as I understand it, mean that the issue really is related to bilateral relations. It means that the Bulgarian government was going to put out the fire after it burned instead of seeing it before then. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Since you say you've been around the Tower for a long time, fires often happen there. You know very well that when the fire starts, it's hard to put it out. I'd also like to focus on something else. There's no way to solve this right now. There is no way to allow the Tower of Carriers, the Minister, the entire cabinet to take you there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u51	How did you feel about Mr. Tanev's statement? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You continue your thesis to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u52	I'm offended by the fact that I've listed everyone. I thanked them and emphasized their contribution. The colleague didn't even notice that I did it, which means he referred to my speech without listening. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's my feeling right now. Once again: we work and talk in the same direction. I have a feeling we don't get along or it's a question that doesn't concern... [[Noise, lines and laughter from GERB.]] I'm gonna finish this, guys. I'm sorry. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You're wrong, you're wrong, it's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u53	The word for speech is Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that our parliamentary group will support the Declaration in which we have been preparing. In its preparation, no one had the idea to charm or disappoint anyone in the gym or outside. The idea was to stand behind a nationally responsible position. I didn't hear anyone object to it, and all I heard was a deviance from the subject that had nothing to do with it. After all, the discussion of the Declaration, which is useful for our society, aimed at Bulgaria, turned it into a function of foreign countries, of relations and so on. It is very clear that we are actually an instrument of the Greek state's message to the European Union. Therefore, our Declaration, in addition to addressing our government, our bodies, whose action up to this stage I consider absolutely adequate, has rarely seen more active action than Minister Moskovski's, is also aimed at the European Union. As a Greek state instrument for their message to the European Union, we must also call on the European Union to help and deliver its message to Greece. I therefore believe that the Declaration must be adopted unanimously to show that we are a national responsible parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u55	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Dear colleagues, Mr. Valeri Simeonov in his speech made a proposal for a supplement in the operative part of the declaration, adopting the following text: The National Assembly is empathetic with the difficulties of the Bulgarian carriers and does not reproach their reciprocal actions. It suggests that this be after t. 2 in the operative part. You're suggesting that this be t. 3 a t. 3 on the Project the points to go down with one numbering down respectively. I'm voting on Mr. Valeri Simeonov's proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 40, against 5, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote a Declaration of the Forty- Third National Assembly on the deepening crisis at the Bulgarian-Greek border caused by the blockades of Greek farmers in the version of the Foreign Commission report. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The declaration was adopted unanimously. Honourable Members, during the second vote yesterday on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education at the end of the second vote report, § 32 I remind the Members of the National Assembly: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Small and Medium Enterprises Act in art. 4, para. 7 shall be added at the end, except where the persons are higher schools or research centres. The Commission's proposal for this text is unanimous. It's my pass. I didn't put it to the vote. I am now voting § 32 in the version of the Commission's report under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 149 MPs: for 139, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE SEARCH OF ALL FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO THE TURKEY OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY IN THE INTERNAL POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. With an inch. No 654-02-18 of 17 February 2016 received a draft decision establishing a Temporary Commission with the signatures of 73 Members of Parliament. Please, on behalf of the importers? Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, in recent weeks in the public domain, including the media, have been disclosed facts and circumstances and allegations of interference of certain official representatives of the Republic of Turkey's politicians, diplomats and others in the domestic political life of the country have emerged. There was information about pressure on Bulgarian politicians, party activists and representatives of local authorities in relation to their activities and decisions. On the other hand, in parallel, there have appeared and persistently spread claims that certain Bulgarian political parties systematically promote the interests of the Russian Federation in the Bulgarian social and political life and have put themselves in the service of this country. These claims raise concern with the Bulgarian society and raise serious issues related to the national security, sovereignty and independence of the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is of high state interest that, an hour rather, all the facts and circumstances related to the above-mentioned claims should be thoroughly examined and that the whole truth of their authenticity should be revealed. This can be achieved through the establishment of a temporary parliamentary committee to request and gather all available information and hear representatives of all competent authorities "the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Services and others." On the basis of all this, we propose to establish a temporary committee to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. We also propose that the committee consists of 16 Members of Parliament elected on a parietal principle for a period of two months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u57	To present the Project for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u58	The draft decision, Madam President, is as follows: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. The Commission consists of 16 members elected on a parietal principle of two from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chair, members who will propose them respectively the parliamentary groups. 4. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of two months.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u59	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The debate is open. Mr. Vigenin was the first to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, I must begin by saying that I was immensely astonished by the proposal that has been made, tabled, and we are now looking at this in plenary today. As the opposition representative says, I can stand in the front row and watch a series, but I am still obliged to share my views on the basis of the knowledge, experience and responsibilities they have in front of the Bulgarian citizens and the state. I want to tell you that this decision in diplomatic language is a hysterical move. A hysterical move is followed only in cases where the situation is really critical and nothing else could solve the problems a special temporary committee in the Bulgarian Parliament would be dealing with. The subject of the activities of this temporary committee is entirely within the powers of the executive authority of the SANS, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If national security is at stake, if there is such information and perhaps the leaders of political groups have had such information, there are the relevant institutions, the Security Council of the Prime Minister, the National Security Advisory Council of the President. If we adopt today's decision, it means to state that we support the meaning or the idea that all these institutions have surrendered and remains the last move of the Bulgarian Parliament. This emergency is also inexplicable. Why are we setting up a temporary committee, provided that the subject of the work of at least two committees in the Bulgarian Parliament contains precisely the issues which I would like this temporary committee to deal with, according to the applicants, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, and perhaps a joint meeting of the two committees? This extraordinaryness means that something unusual, dramatic is happening in the country. Is this a sign we want to give to the citizens, perhaps to these two countries, which, who knows why specialized and roll-calling are listed, and to the outside world? Because you should be aware that what is being discussed and will be voted on today will have European and global dimensions and will be used for the purpose not in the Bulgarian interest. I'd even say from our partners. I would like to warn you that the establishment of this committee, whatever the result of its activities, will bring us into the corridor of lasting cooling of relations with these two countries, and I also warn you that it will limit our ability to deal with the problems that she would like to deal with. Because the more public we deal with such issues, the more difficult it is for the relevant institutions that I have listed to do their job, as should be done in a civilized country. I can say more, of course, but I still cannot say that I am under the impression that specific party problems and their solution are transferred to such a level that will create lasting problems for the Bulgarian state. I will not support this decision and call on the Bulgarian Parliament to reject it, and if it wishes to deal with such problems, it will be done in the ongoing committees, which in the coming days to make the relevant actions to the respective ministers, heads of institutions and hold the relevant hearings. And if, on the basis of this, it becomes clear that the situation is indeed so dramatic to seek a meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u61	Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? Mr. Tsonev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vigenin! Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and control of the executive power is entrusted to the Bulgarian Parliament. This control shall be carried out through permanent and temporary committees, as well as with plenary meetings. The problem on which we propose to create a temporary committee is large enough, judging from just one fact, we do not even know the details of the scale of the public debate in the last two months: from what has been delivered, including the prime minister on this subject, albeit very diplomatically, albeit in a good tone. If there are attempts to intervene in the Bulgarian political life of foreign countries, this clearly affects national security, Mr Vigenin. It's definitely a cause for great concern and some extraordinary nature of the situation. We cannot leave the two-month debate and worry to the Bulgarian society without an answer or with an answer in the Standing Committees. If this were the case, if the Standing Committees could control and meet all public expectations, we would not have, in the whole practice of the Bulgarian Parliament, since 1990, to create, I say, all the Members of the National Assembly who participated, created temporary committees on particularly important and important topics for society. I quote you with the thesis that nothing contradicts the creation of a temporary committee, no diplomatic fuck-up will be done with this. There are rules that provide information, if it's confidential, and how it's protected. They are described in the laws and in the Rules of the National Assembly. We must meet the public expectations, and we must see the Bulgarian specialized services what they have done and what they are doing on this topic. This is not something that affects this party or that party. This is something that affects the fundamentals of the national security of the Bulgarian state. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u63	Second line? A hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u64	Dear Mr. Tsonev, I know that I will not convince you with my arguments, because this proposal, which came from the DPS, is well thought out from your point of view and must have its reasons. I say again from your point of view. Based on everything I know and what I've been through, what we're going to do today if it's backed up is a mistake. There are institutions to which we will say today that they are unable to solve the problems that you are talking about. The Standing Committees were not referred to at any time for such problems. I am a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. Until now, no unusual information has come in this direction from the blitz control with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. there is something that has troubled the institutions. Perhaps today we want to tell them that you are not in a position, let this be clear to GERB as a leading party in the government that these institutions, including the relevant ministries, are unable to solve these problems, which requires extraordinary measures by the Bulgarian Parliament. If that is the case, I think we should listen to the least and seek an explanation, and why not resignations from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Home Affairs, the State Agency of National Security? A corresponding position to have on the President, who obviously did not understand for two months that there was a serious problem with the intervention of two countries in Bulgaria's internal affairs and did not consider it necessary in any way to involve the attention of the political groups and the institutions concerned with this problem. Once again, I say I suggest we reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u65	The word for speech is Mr. Valeri Simeonov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is indeed a great pleasure for us and the Bulgarian people to see a union around the votes to be united, and to support, as happened just before with the declaration against blocking the border. Dear Mr President, led by this wish, I would suggest and propose an editorial change in the title of the name of the Commission in order to achieve also the same unification that we demonstrated at the first item of the agenda, namely, honourable Members of the BSP, Ataka. I hope that you will support the establishment of such a committee if we extend the name, etc. 1 where the name of the Commission is also mentioned, as follows: following the claims of the Russian Federation's intervention, we should place a comma instead of a comma and Turkey and other countries. What do I mean? If we are to talk about allegations of interference in the internal affairs of other countries, one of the most common such claims is the attempts of the United States to intervene in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Let the Commission take care to address these issues, all the more so that they gained one publicity a long time ago, not now, but since the time of one, I would say, comic ambassador Warlick, who climbed the cinema screen and was getting off TV screens every day from morning to night, and lately there are also followers of his behaviour in the face of ambassadors of other countries, I mean France in particular. I think that with one extension of the title and point one we will find this so desired by the whole Bulgarian people unification of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u67	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. As I understand it, you propose that the editorial amendment be in both the title and the first paragraph. I found out what a comma is after that, and the text continues. Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Stoilov first. There's two more who want it. Unfortunately, there are only three lines. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u68	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Simeonov, it is difficult to fix things with any additions. If you want to look principled, you should have made a proposal for a comprehensive change of the title, which does not mention by name any countries and propose that the Bulgarian Parliament be constituted as a single committee in order to examine Bulgaria's policy intervention of foreign countries, something that has been going on for more than twenty years. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] This issue will not be resolved with any committee. It can only be solved with sincere, consistent, national behaviour of different parties. It will not be decided by putting different names in the names of these parties. It requires rethinking not to look outside for the reasons that someone is interfering, but whether we are helping our people and our country. From this point of view, your addition does not solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Second line? Mr. Ermenkov, you wanted to. Mr. Bojinov wanted to too. And Mrs. Tasheva... Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't understand. A statement? I have to record you, three people have been recorded before you. A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoilov, at the entrance of the National Assembly writes: "The Union makes the force." My wish was to unite for one more time and this fragile hope of mine you are quite brutally trying to destroy it. I think you could have made or your colleagues could have made this proposal, and I assure you that our group will also support such a version of the title. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u71	Thank you. For a speech before you, Mr. Bozhinov, is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev, a member of the group of independent MPs. [[(Comments from GERB: There is no such group! There is no such group!]] Yes, a non-member of a parliamentary group is the correct expression. Thanks for the remark. Mr. Enchev, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u72	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! This is the strangest committee that has been set up since the formation of this Parliament. Obviously, this is about clearing internal party accounts in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Great, let's do it, but why do it by setting up an extraordinary parliamentary committee? Instead, in this Chamber, as was said before me, the director of the Bulgarian counter-intelligence, called the State Agency of National Security, to inform us at a closed session which foreign countries interfere in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, instead of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to undertake the appropriate procedures around Christmas and shortly after Christmas, according to the 1961 Vienna Convention, for diplomatic officials, a procedure for recalling the Turkish Ambassador to Bulgaria. Instead of taking these two very important steps, we are entering an internal party squabble, including another country that has nothing to do with the case. Therefore, I believe that this committee is absolutely unnecessary. And what is most scandal, a country is involved in this committee, whose ambassador and his consul generals do not go around the country and the mixed areas to campaign for a political power. I'm talking about the ambassador of the Russian Federation. We do not remember for the past 26 years the Ambassador of Russia and the Consul Generals of Russia going around, as Turkish Consul Generals and Turkish Ambassadors and other Turkish ambassadors, in mixed areas, allowing in this particular case I agree with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to put pressure on party structures in mixed areas on Bulgarian Muslims for which political power to vote. At the same time, I disagree with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which semi-officially, semi-illegally spread this signature, eliminating the independent MPs. Why are you eliminating them, dear colleagues of the DPS? To eliminate those who left or were expelled from your group six MPs? What's wrong with hearing their opinions? What is wrong with hearing their opinion about the intervention of the Turkish Ambassador in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria? And here, I fully agree with Mr. Simeonov, the scope of this declaration must be extended. Do you remember some time ago, when the ambassadors of the United States of America, Japan, the Czech Republic, Britain, France and the Netherlands came out with a scandalously open letter against the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, as this Commission allowed it to initiate a procedure that was in the mandate of the previous National Assembly, this was a very correct composition of the Commission, which allowed itself to initiate a procedure to review the renewable energy sources contracts and the TPP-1 and TPP-3 contracts owned by an American company? I propose that the ambassadors of these countries and, more precisely, those countries be included within the scope of this declaration and, first of all, of course, the ambassadors of the United States of America and the Czech Republic, who were directly interested in adopting such a declaration, which is essentially interfering with our internal affairs. And why not include, I propose to formally include the Hellenic Republic in this declaration, as you know for six years from the territory of the Hellenic Republic, with the support of the Greek Government, are broadcast by a Greek government radio station emissions of the so-called "Pomish language"? Isn't this interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and why should we eliminate this harsh interference? What about the Republic of Serbia, which openly in its history textbooks, and especially in literature, speaks about the existence of Shop language on the territory of the Republic of Serbia or, more precisely, on the territory of the Western suburbs, which we know how they were taken from the Kingdom of Bulgaria in 1919? I mean, I suggest, as long as we are expanding the scope of this absurd committee, against whose existence I am strongly opposed, that the Republic of Serbia and the Hellenic Republic enter as well. In conclusion, I will only say once again that Russia's inclusion in this declaration is a provocation to the truth. And obviously she has to give the Movement for Rights and Freedoms an alibi to propose the inclusion of the Republic of Turkey. If a declaration is to be made, I repeat once again, the countries that need to be included are the United States of America, the Czech Republic, Greece, Serbia, Japan, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, all those whose ambassadors in recent years have allowed themselves ineligible action, severely suppressing the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic and Consular Relations adopted in the 1960s. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u73	Thanks for the speech. First line, Mr. Kazak. Second line, Mr. Atanas Atanasov has declared. For the third line so far, I don't see anyone who wants to. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Enchev, I want both you and everyone who has spoken so far and who intends to speak, I would like to draw attention to their attention to the name of the Commission. This is the Commission to investigate all the facts and circumstances related to the allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in domestic policy, in domestic political life, and not at all about interference in internal affairs, as you have repeatedly pointed out here, from this tribune, and as other previouss have done. This commission will be tasked with examining all facts and circumstances related to interference in domestic political life and not at all in the domestic affairs of the country on all subjects, statements by ambassadors, on all domestic topics of economic and any other nature. This committee has a clearly defined subject. This is an intervention in domestic political life, in the activities of certain political forces, or whether certain political forces, for which accusations or opinions have been filed, that they have promoted certain interests of another state in domestic politics, whether it is true or not, whether there are facts and circumstances or not, and not at all whether other countries are interfering at all in the domestic affairs of the country. Make this very significant difference and I think that these arguments will then be dropped for extending the scope of the committee's activities and its name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. General Atanasov, come in. You have the floor for a line. Another line from Mr. Zablyanov. She's gonna be third.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are profanizing this important topic, from what I hear in the Chamber, well, let's do, Mr. Enchev, a list of half the diplomatic corps and tell them that from tomorrow we have to catch the train and live like North Korea. This is not serious. However, I take the floor as a line to tell you and remind you, because I am sure that you remember this thing. It is important to say things accurately. You explained who from the diplomatic corps went around the country and what they were doing and that it was included here in the title, the Russian Federation unfounded, and all that sort of thing. At the time of the rule of the United Democratic Forces 1997, the general Consul General of Turkey in Burgas Beiza Juntuna was declared a persona non grata, and she left the country, as well as three Russian diplomats then headed by the military attaché, and they left the country, so these things should be remembered. In other words, there are facts and circumstances in the past that show that this type of interference in domestic politics has permanently existed. The point is that here with this proposal, in this way formulated, Parliament will enter into an internal party dispute. However, I have taken the floor, I am quite surprised by what I hear from the left because half of the BSP group have signed the draft decision without asking the former foreign minister from their parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u77	Thank you, General. Atanasov. People's representative Valeri Jablyanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed extraordinary committee to deal with such an important issue as interference in the internal affairs, I think it is a precedent in the work of the Bulgarian Parliament after 1990. This makes the issue even more serious because with us, in the content of much of our debates, this issue is present. We're putting it up. Where is the boundary of partnership, membership in international organisations and unions and national interests? What is that territory of internal political relations, as said by the colleague, who are untouchable, which should be exclusive property, the exclusive perimeter of the Bulgarian state and of the Bulgarian Constitution, are clearly stated in the Constitution? Today we are in this situation because we are constantly breaking these principles. We constantly violate them because we are not impressed by the mentoring statements of the ambassadors in Sofia when they are from countries of the European Union. I exclude belonging to one Union community or another, but this is about order in inter-state relations, which is regulated in a series of conventions, not only the Vienna Convention that has been mentioned. A series of conventions! Somehow we don't respect it, and now that we have faced arrogance and arrogance, I will say to one of the ambassadors, who has reached an extreme extent to interfere with the domestic party life, because that is the truth, in the domestic partisan life, and if the information that has been delivered is a fact to pressure Bulgarian MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u79	Please get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u80	...he has no place in Bulgaria one day. I can't understand executive power right now. What should the committee do in the Bulgarian Parliament? It will cause more international trouble than the executive to do its job. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The executive power to address the ambassadors who break these rules and invite them to leave the country is done in European practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u81	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. You've talked a lot more than time. A hole? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! There is no difference between intervention in the domestic and domestic affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I think I'm short and gluttonous, and I don't have to prove my point. I'm addressing Gen. Atanas Atanasov. [[(Comments from GERB: Here we are citizens.]] You're right. We're all civilians here, I agree. Mr. Atanasov, Daniel Mitov is Minister of Foreign Affairs from the quota of the Reformation Block. Daniel Mitov, as was said before me very successfully, should enter his role as foreign minister and start procedure for the recall of the Turkish Ambassador to Bulgaria, not to create such a fictional commission in which a state is placed, which has nothing to do with the intervention in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. And if we are talking about interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria, and if you want to be truly objective, you must propose that the United States and their ambassadors in recent years be targeted at investigating this committee. If you want to be objective, but you won't do that. I refer again to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: why not propose from the quota of independent MPs to have representatives, why eliminate them? I reply once again: since you do not want the six secessors, or expelled, or left, from your group to be inside. And why shouldn't they be inside this committee, which, again, I stress, shouldn't exist? It is contrary, I would say, in some respects, also to international law, as there is an executive that must resolve these issues, and not an extraordinary parliamentary committee. Why are you against independent lawmakers? Why don't you want Lutvi Mestan and the rest of his colleagues to be on this committee, or at least their representative, so we can hear their opinion? In this sense, I believe that you gentlemen of the DPS have double standards and I strongly object to them, because this, first of all, means discrimination against Bulgarian MPs, whether they are in a parliamentary group or independent. I therefore state once again: I strongly oppose the existence of such an extraordinary parliamentary committee. Let the executive get into its functions. Don't be afraid to get into his functions. But obviously she is afraid, as she should reach out to an embassy whose new ambassador speaks brilliantly Bulgarian, but who, at the beginning of his career, at the hearing in the Senate Committee on Foreign Policy, said he was coming to Bulgaria. To limit the influence of another country in the Republic of Bulgaria: the Russian Federation. Isn't that an intervention in our internal affairs, a priori, even in advance, at the beginning of his term of office, before he received the appropriate aggreman?! I hope that on the right hand side they will approach the issue objectively and they will suggest why not, the United States of America must enter this committee against which, once again, for the third time I say, I strongly oppose its existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Since there are at least four more speeches recorded, I propose that the debate continue in the programme most likely next week. I'm calling a ten-minute recess. At 11:00 we continue with the regular and planned parliamentary control. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and DPS.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u84	Colleagues, before the interruption of the meeting, a procedure has been requested a little earlier today, and according to our Rules it must be given in due time to the Member of the National Assembly who has requested this procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to extend the working hours of today's plenary session with the time that will be taken away to end the debates on this point and to vote on the next item.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u86	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the legislative part of today's plenary until the points that have been included in the programme are exhausted. They included the debate that is going on and voting on the Draft for the Establishment of a Temporary Commission, as well as two draft decisions for the election of two committees, then three hours of parliamentary control, without prejudice to the time of the MPs and their right to receive a response from the ministers. We are voting on this proposal. They voted 116 MPs: for 107 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The word for speech is Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Kadiev, Mrs. Tasheva and Mr. Karakachanov are also listed so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u87	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The title of the Commission, the subject of an activity determined in accordance with the title of the Commission, is personally unacceptable to me. It shows particular and biased trendiness. Such a commission will hardly end with useful and necessary conclusions and findings for society. If you can look for a field of agreement, for which speakers have called before me, it can only be on the plane that the title and the subject are defined within the intervention of foreign countries in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, understand, including political life, which cannot be isolated from the most essential processes in the country. I am making a formal proposal if it comes to voting on this document, in the title to be written that it is about the intervention of foreign countries in the internal affairs of Bulgaria. Any priority listing in someone's title and a presumption for other countries is unlawful. Other countries, even if they are not foreign. Is there interference of other countries in the internal affairs of Bulgaria? Of course there is. Chasing their interests, pursuing group corporate interests with which they are connected, they seek realization of their interests in the territory of other countries, including Bulgaria. Any luck? In many cases, yes. Is their success contrary to the interests of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people? Too often, yes. On what does their success depend? Their success depends on the Bulgarian statehood's ability to oppose foreign interests and to defend the interests of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian state and its future. The object thus formulated will be recognition that the authorities of the Bulgarian statehood give unsatisfactory results for the Bulgarian Parliament of their existence and of their struggle to protect national interests. It was better to be heard by the parliament those who were created to defend the Bulgarian interests. Obviously, the signatures of MPs under the option we are discussing are unspoken, but a clear recognition of dissatisfaction or at least of lack of awareness of how Bulgarian statehood and Bulgarian interests are defended. I will refrain from pointing out them, but to say that there are no limits between inter-party intervention and internal affairs, I will ask: if our services have reason not to give qualified information to a senior civil servant because they suspected him of having relations with foreign services, and this man was the leader of a parliamentary list of one of the parties represented here, where is the border, ladies and gentlemen, that so far his party engagements are, and the territory further....... the territory of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian interests, where do they stay? I'm worried about what you'd end up with, and what would be the result of such a committee? Would this not cause dissatisfaction in the Bulgarian society, because even if we learned the truth, we would not be able to tell it? Because some wish with this subject to say that the people of the country are not economically dependent on Russia, and the people of the country are directly related to the services. But it's too limited. The Bulgarian people want to know the truth not only today! Here I will say something with which I will challenge you sharply: the Bulgarian people want to know, including whether the revival process was madness and recklessness, or was it inappropriately chosen option and replica of the interests of another country and plans against Bulgaria? So what period will we investigate that of the allegations of yesterday, or will we draw conclusions whether the constitutionally settled order in Bulgaria and the institutions of the Bulgarian state protect the interests of this country and the future of this generation? This is the big question, and some of the speakers before me have very well argued it. To conclude, I am making a formal proposal: the title and the subject to be for the intervention of other countries, without mentioning one, any, and foreordaining. Only on this plane, Mr. Simeonov, may we seek some agreement. On the other plane, regardless of which one of my colleagues has signed, I cannot vote because, I said, this act is false, trendy, narrow-minded and it will not produce a result that will satisfy the Bulgarian society, which asks: where are you, the Bulgarian statesmen, when they touch on our religious freedoms and feelings, in the language, in the history, in our education, in our defense ability? If we in this committee give a poor, inadequate, superficial answer, we will be despised by those who think they are waiting for the truth on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u88	Any lines to Mr. Bojinov? I won't. To make a statement there is Mr. Kadiev, after him Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u89	Dear colleagues, I will distinguish myself from some of the colleagues who spoke before me. I believe that there is a definite need for such a committee. The reason for this is very simple and clear news, the rumours, the allegations that appeared after Mr. Ahmed Dogan's statement at the end of December last year, namely the allegations of direct, direct pressure on Bulgarian politicians by a foreign state. This cannot remain undisclosed, unspoken, unspoken. Here Mr. Bozhino said: "Even if we learn the truth, we cannot tell it. " - That is not true! On the contrary, when we learn the truth, we have to tell it. That's what people want. I absolutely disagree, as the subject of this committee's work, to simply record other countries. This will water down the subject to the extent to which we will discuss Fiji and Seychelles, not the countries that really have specific intelligence interests in Bulgaria. My purely editorial proposal is to completely remove the part about the Russian Federation at least I have not heard the Russian Federation in any way to put direct pressure on Bulgarian politicians and to concentrate on what we know. We know two facts: the fact that consuls, diplomats from the Turkish Embassy, called politicians from Bulgarian, DPS and put pressure on them to vote on one particular person. The second fact is that Mr Lutvi Mestan hid in the Turkish Embassy, humiliating the Bulgarian institutions in this way. You can't, even if there's a threat to your life, hide in a foreign country. The territory of the Turkish Embassy is actually a foreign country territory. I would like to address BSP colleagues in particular, as I see that Mr. Mikov has signed this declaration on the front page: colleagues, do not do this thing! Don't compare apples to pears. The behaviour of the Turkish Embassy has nothing to do with the behaviour of any other embassy, at least I do not know any other embassy has acted in this rude, arrogant way in the territory of Bulgaria by exerting direct, direct pressure for voting in one direction or another. If it comes to voting on the version of a declaration the way it looks now, just don't vote on it, don't support it. [[Heckling]] GERB is not my responsibility yet. [[Replications. Awesome.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u90	Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u91	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I appreciate your experience, your support and your understanding of the motives of this draft decision. I appreciate the fact that you have, to some extent, come to understand the meaning of what is being proposed and carefully read the reasons. But if you really have done it entirely, that is, if you have really read the reasons, I am convinced that you will also support the part of the draft decision that you have now announced that you are rejecting the Russian Federation. Once again, this committee and the motives are very clearly stated that it aims to investigate facts and circumstances relating to allegations of possible interference in domestic politics, in domestic politics. Not at all any statements of intervention in economics, in the formation of prices, decisions related to regulators and so on, but in domestic political party life in the country. If you read the reasons carefully, it is written that parallel to the claims of pressure and so on by some officials from the Republic of Turkey, there were also allegations that a particular party is promoting Russian interests in Bulgaria, that certain parties hardly stood up for Russia's interests in Bulgaria. These claims, which have appeared in parallel with other actions, must be examined to see whether they are true, whether there are grounds for such claims or not. That's the purpose of the committee. I am convinced that by looking into these motives, you will fully support the project. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u92	Second line? Mr. Kadyev, would you like to use the back? No. A personal explanation of Mr. Bojinov was named by Mr. Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u93	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I said it would be bad if the committee knew, but it could not tell the truth that was my statement: it is bad if it could not tell the truth for different reasons. It's not that he won't say it. It's very important. Secondly, if you agree to make a committee to clarify allegations and rumors, let's not prejudge the perimeter with the title. If he's gonna do it, he's gonna do it and get to where he's gonna give us the truth. So we insist that my proposal remain for a more general title and subject matter of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u94	The word to speak is Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u95	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the long line of speakers does not allow me to repeat our position to the end, as some of you have already expressed what we in............................ Yes, of course, here it is mandatory, if we are to investigate foreign interference, it must be the state of the United States of America. Excuse me, but she does Maidani, colorful revolutions, she sends her ambassadors to encourage and motivate the occupiers of Sofia University, while Ambassador Marcy Reese herself goes to Positano to consult with her colleagues there. I don't understand why the United States of America isn't listed here.! So is the UK state?! But wasn't there a time when British Ambassador Jeremy Hill was named after the water price in Sofia? Is this not an intervention? In fact, you're suggesting a legislative brat. It is a shame to make a Commission to investigate whether, aceba, Turkey interferes in the internal affairs of Bulgaria and for balance you put Russia there, because in DPS heard some rumors. What Russian influence in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen? There are no Russian banks in Bulgaria; there are no Russian universities and there are two Americans; there are three Turkish banks; there are American banks; there are four Greeks. What you want to put on the shoulders of the legislature is the work of the executive. Only you can't tell your foreign minister to do his job because he's an American employee. Isn't that right? Why hasn't he put a black stamp in the passport of the sadly famous Suleiman Gökce? And because he doesn't dare, and because from America and from Kozyak. 16 pull him and dictate him what to do, so let's wash our hands again with the National Assembly. That's what it looks like to me. It is imperative that a temporary committee with a very large mandate examine the results of foreign intervention. For example, a committee to clarify why 83% of banks are foreign-owned in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u96	There is no such subject to this Decision Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u97	Why 350,000? Dka of the best arable land are owned by legal entities registered in offshore companies, and we do not know who owns our territory? We don't just have to lie to each other that a committee like this could do something. What will this committee do? Is one such commission able to come up with a report that says, for example: yes, Turkey interferes 95% in Bulgaria's domestic policy and Russia is 35.7? Is that what he's gonna do? What's he gonna find out? Such a commission is actually an escape from the problem, not a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u98	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, accepting your claim that the executive is trying to wipe its hands with parliament, I cannot agree that you are limiting it only to the foreign minister. Because at the moment we are witnessing a policy of turning Bulgaria into an increasingly prime minister republic, where the Prime Minister's word is more than the word of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the administrative courts, where he allows himself to stop orders, where he does everything that is beautiful, even occasionally listens to what they say to him in London...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u100	On the subject, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u101	I'm talking about this, Madam President. I'm talking about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u102	And on the Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u103	And on the draft decision, I'm talking about what I disagree with Mrs. Tasheva. That's why I'm arguing. I'm going to ask you to extend my time with what you're interrupting me with. Why don't I agree that it's limited to Mitov? Because it is the prime minister who must be responsible in the National Assembly who has or has no interference in the internal affairs as the executive. He should be called here if there's anything, and we should listen to him what, why, and how, if there is. And what's happening here right now is turning us back into toilet paper.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u104	Extend time, request extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u105	I asked for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u106	Say it again, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u107	One more time: I want an extension of the group's time. I told you that. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u108	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u109	Mr. Ermenkov, I just can't disagree with you. You're right. [[Applause from GERB, cheering.]] You are very right, but let us still limit the scope and the subject matter that this committee would deal with. We are against the establishment of such a committee, I will say again, because it is a washing. Someone is trying with such a commission to wash their face, to wash the policy. Let us then make a temporary commission for Angela Merkel's intervention, which intends to allocate us some quotas here with Muslims; let us make a temporary commission for Xavier Laper de Caban's intervention, who is the leader of what you call a judicial reform. If we go like this, we need to set up temporary committees for all 200 or 195 countries in the UN. Yes, the Prime Minister can solve all this, but he wants to wash his hands. Professor Stanilov asked two questions to the Foreign Minister. There hasn't been an answer for two months, even though they're dealing with outside interference. Professor Stanilov asked two questions to the Prime Minister, and I asked one. My question is about the school of poaching language and history in Turkey, which Ahmed Davutoglu promised they would finance, but the Presidency of the National Assembly returned them. So, you're right, really the executive has to do his job, not hide behind the parliament's back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u110	The word for speech is Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u111	Madam President, honourable Members. I, of course, and my colleagues from the Patriotic Front will support this proposal. I am surprised at some colleagues who say: "Why don't you give us this task? " Fifteen minutes before that, or more precisely yesterday, when the debate on the vote, you said: "Bulgaria is not a prime minister republic, Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. I see nothing wrong and nothing illegal in Parliament to make such a commission. When parliament comes forward with opinions on the subject, they cannot be optional for the executive. The intervention in Bulgaria's internal affairs over the past 20 years is a fact. I remember an ambassador who, at a hearing in the Senate Commission, was 1993 - 1994, promised that he would come to Bulgaria to change the Constitution for us, so that the Gypsy, Macedonian and Pomasian minority could have ethnic parties. I remember other ambassadors...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u112	Mr. Karakachanov, please not by memory, but by Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u113	The project. I am arguing why we would support this. I remember other ambassadors who in this term came up and looked at us angryly when we didn't adopt a bill that wasn't done, the so-called Law for Combating Corruption on the Higher Levels. There is a Geneva Convention on Diplomatic Service which is mandatory for all foreign diplomats in Bulgaria. They haven't kept it for more than 20 years. The very debate we are having here today, the committee itself, which we are going to create, is a very clear signal to all external factors that have intervened in the last 20 years - 25 years in the internal affairs of Bulgaria - that the Bulgarian Parliament... [[BSP LB.]] This is for everyone, dear colleagues. This debate today, this committee today will be an earring of everyone who thinks that Bulgaria is a broken yard and that it will be able to do whatever it wants to do to lobby for economic interests, to lobby for political decisions, to pass foreign policy decisions. Look at it from this context! Twenty-five years in the Bulgarian Parliament this topic of involvement of foreign countries in our internal affairs has not been seriously discussed. There have been positions of parliamentary parties, of individual MPs, there have been proposals, but the parliament has never had the courage to step in this direction and investigate the interference of one or two or more countries in domestic affairs in Bulgaria. From this point of view, the debate itself, I repeat, is useful. It is heard, it is seen, it is reported. This, in addition to the specific parameter of the Committee on the attitude of these two countries, which are mentioned in its title and as the subject of the committee, is a sign for the whole Bulgarian society that the Bulgarian Parliament has the will, and has the courage to deal with such problems, not to sweep them under the carpet, not to bypass them and to pretend that nothing happens in Bulgaria. Yes, many countries have intervened in the internal affairs of Bulgaria... both neighbouring and small and stronger, but what one of these countries does, namely the Republic of Turkey, is brutal interference in the internal affairs of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u114	That's what the committee will say. Don't we have to create it first and tell her? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u115	Yes, I say my opinion on why I would support this committee. Because it is not that someone has called leaders or MPs, or district leaders of a political party in consulates and at the embassy. The thing is that the intervention in Bulgaria's internal affairs from this neighbouring country is also expressed in direct, direct, gross interference through the Muslim religion, through the Main Mufti, the regional mufti, which is extremely dangerous, in view of the processes that flow in Turkey itself and the processes in the Middle East. Therefore, this committee will do something useful. I would remind my fellow Members and the proposal that Mr. Simeonov made to the committee to add to the committee others because there are other countries that can be referred to as brutally interfering in our internal affairs. Dear colleagues, let's get off the subject of rusophilia, russophobia, Turkophilia, Turkophobia. The most important thing is to show the Bulgarian society and the whole outside world that there is will in the Bulgarian Parliament. These processes, which we have observed, which have led to huge losses both politically and economically in Bulgaria, to be stopped. I look at it this way, and for this reason, together with my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, first, by voting on the proposal that my colleague Simeonov made, we will support this thing because it is high time to say: Come on! Bulgaria must show that it is a country that has dignity, insists on its sovereignty. Friendly relations with everyone, but the dignity of Bulgaria and the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u116	Any lines to Mr. Karakachanov? Mr. Zablyanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Karakachanov, I respect your eloquence very much and I mean it very seriously. But we have reached, I think, a point where we are already fully aware that the committee is pointless, as no one can say from this tribune who is the perimeter of the internal affairs. Just a week ago here, you and my colleagues were trying to convince me how Air Polysling is an ally mission. Today I hear from Mr. Karakachanov that the Turkish state is unprecedented and I do not know how it interferes with our internal affairs. But is this Turkish state our ally, is it a member of the Atlantic Pact, has it signed under the same paragraphs that we have signed? What are we even doing?! What's the perimeter of the interference? This is what I put in my previous statement: what are our internal affairs, so that we know which are the external ones? Let's put it this way. What are our foreign affairs and what are our internal affairs? Do you think the committee will come to the answer to my question? We must first be aware of what is the extraordinary perimeter of our internal policy to create this committee to work. You saw in the debate how valid the questions were raised about the behaviour of other ambassadors, the electricity network and its privatisation, the electricity production, the internal market, the border control, the interaction with partner services. Well, what policy is it, is it internal, is it external, is it for Bulgaria's place in allied obligations, relations and so on? The Commission will be inoperative from the moment it is established, because it has nothing to step on. What will this committee be working on, Mr. Karakachanov? I agree with much of the findings. First, we see them with a huge delay when an infrastructure is deployed here on our territory, which can be used for anything to suppress the government, to destabilize the internal political situation. It's a fact. But then, what did we do two weeks ago when we voted the other way around and here you were explaining to me how these were allies? Now what kind of commitments are these?! [[Replyes: "Search, time!"]] Dear colleagues, such a commission has no place at the moment in the Bulgarian Parliament. These issues should be resolved by the executive, Mr. Foreign Minister to become Foreign Minister of Bulgaria and not Foreign Minister in general. [[Noise and lines.]] The Prime Minister should make commitments and make him work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u118	Second line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u119	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I could not understand your argument that you gave to support the committee and its title. All this time you talked about one country, about one intervention, about one emissaries, about one religion, and suddenly you decided to add some other. Instead of crossing one of the countries in the title. If you could explain this to me, your decision to add others. Is it just salt, is it for a change, is it for an assortment, what are you doing it for? If not, tell yourself the truth that you really want to be a committee that will investigate one country and the other will only appear in the title. At least that's how I found out from your argumentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u120	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u121	You misunderstand me, dear colleague. Perhaps you didn't listen to me more carefully at the time you and Mrs. Tasheva exchanged pleasantries. [[Replications. Awesome.]] You didn't hear me. I am surprised, however, because the first places in the signatures for this committee include representatives of your parliamentary group and before you understand me, which will hardly work out for you, it is best to understand among yourselves what you want. I'm very good at my speech... [[BSP LB.]] If you have heads, we'll see it in Congress.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u122	Karakachanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u123	I mentioned not only one country, I mentioned many examples, and if it was not for Mrs. Tsacheva's legitimate remark that this was not on the subject, I could tell you many other cases about neighbouring countries, not only about the one I was talking about and about further, that is to say, about everyone he wished for. But if you are interested, this will also happen in the subject of the discussions in the committee itself, so I have not talked about one or two countries. I said very clearly and precisely that the creation of such a committee, the debate itself in Parliament is a sign that Bulgaria is awakening to the conduct of an independent national responsible policy, and not the possibility of everyone continuing to interfere in our affairs in violation of our sovereignty and in violation of all international norms. I mentioned to you, if you didn't hear me, but you still won't listen to me and you still won't understand the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and so on, there are many UN documents. That's my argument. And this country, which I mentioned, is actually carrying out the most brutal interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and in general of the Bulgarian state from the last hundred and thirty-five, six years. So I cannot understand the arguments with which you would vote against. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] You mean that's not true. It's true, of course. To the previous question: what will the committee learn? He can learn a lot of things because, I assure you, during this whole time when the Bulgarian services were crushed, gassed, humiliated, including with your cooperation, I speak when you were in power and were humiliated, there were people in them who worked conscientiously for the national interests of Bulgaria, despite the qualifications, insults, shame they tried to impose on them. There are many data not only for this country, there are many specific data with names, with numbers, with dates, including material that is not only as a report, there are documented similar things. So much he can learn from this committee if he does his job right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u124	To speak, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would really like to express a dismay about the haste on this issue with this committee, too, because, as the DPS colleagues have proposed, it has been valid for a little over 130 years. The problem is timeless, it is inextricably linked to the whole course of the history of the independent Bulgarian state. So whether we make the decision this Friday or next Wednesday, it seems really very, very inexplicable. It naturally raises suspicions of a second plan, which the importers put into this committee, and I would like to stress that the importers, as I see it, are GERB, DPS and BSP. The position of the BSP tolerates some evolution, but in any case...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u126	Look better, it's not just the BSP, it's the Patriotic Front...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u127	Mrs. Karayancheva, you are clearly suffering from a lack of communication with me. We can fix it somehow, but not from the stands. [[Applause from BSP LB, livening in RB.]] So let's get to the point. Having so decided that we have to vote today, I would like to emphasise that it is precisely the importance of the topic in both the viciousness and in today's day, and historically, it will obviously give rise to a certain consensus, because in fact the Reformation bloc wants such a committee and the fact that the proposal is tabled by GERB, BSP and DPS, which is always a difficult coalition for us when a difficult partner appears, does not mean that we do not think that these issues should be investigated. A field of consensus is formed here. But I would like to stress that the consensus field ends there, and this is more than once in this Parliament where the imitation begins. The rush creates concerns of imitation. The wording of the decision also creates serious concerns about imitation. Because the study of circumstances related to claims sounds at least unserious. The question, fellow Members, is much more serious. I will propose in this regard specific editorial proposals to seal the decision, in today's very decision to show that we are not looking for a imitation or a second piercing of the outcome of the work of this committee, but indeed, as Mr. Karakachanov said, we are looking for the start of a serious national responsible dialogue on these issues. I would first support fellow Members who have proposed not to list specific countries. The interference of any other country in the domestic affairs of Bulgaria is equally dangerous, although historically not as traditional as that of the Ottoman Empire and of the Russian Empire in all their forms of existence as states. Stressing that their present forms of existence are as close as possible to the most dangerous imperial forms of the 19th century. So it's really important. I support the proposals to drop specific names. I'm making a concrete proposal for a point. 2 and 3, so the current t. 2 and 3 be t. 4 and 5. "2." Instructs the Bulgarian government to request from partner services in the European Union and NATO, including in the Republic of Turkey, all data on Russian connection to Bulgarian politicians Ahmed Dogan and Delyan Peevski and their media, as well as on their holdings through their ownership in "Holding Bulgartabak" smuggling channels. 3. The data referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be reported immediately to the Temporary Commission. Here I would like to respond to my colleagues from BSP: it is very well known how Russian political influence in Bulgarian social and political life is going. It flows through gas pipes and through media. So there is much to investigate, including the financing of large media packages is also a very important element of the intervention of foreign countries in Bulgarian internal affairs. When adopting these editorial proposals, we will support the joint decision. In their rejection we will find another attempt to imitate, which always occurs when GERB, DPS and BSP are together and will not support [[(GERB's ……]] . All right, Mrs. Atanasova. When you're together, it's an imitation. When you're apart, often not. I'm fair, I don't deny everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u128	Mr. Kanev, until you list everyone in the front row... For the first line, Mr. Gjorgyev. For the second line - Dimitar Bayraktarov. There's no third line so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u129	He's giving up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u130	There's a second one, so it's pointless to give up the first one. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I had no intention of taking a word for it at all today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u132	Well, don't take it if you don't have it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u133	And I call on, after this procedure, that we have lines and dodges to focus on voting. But since colleague Kanev proposes extending the scope of this committee, I, for example, Mr. Kanev, would like to ask you: why is not an investigation of the sale of the Neftochemical plant in Burgas included in this scope? [[Applause from GERB.]] Why is the sale of BGA not included in this range? [[Applause from GERB.]] Why is this scope not included the enslaving energy contracts on which Bulgarian citizens pay billions of levs? Why is the sale of Kaolin not included in this range? And don't tell me what to do next. Don't you think it's a good idea if you're suggesting that we expand this range, expand it properly? At least when we do something, we do it and this Commission to have enough work, to have some justice, some really, really, and the publicity of these things, which have been spoken of for years and the discontent in the Bulgarian society is just huge in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u134	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u135	Mr. Bayraktarov, not expanding the scope, specifying! The range, as I said, is more than centuries old. It can't be expanded any more than that. However, clarification is useful to know that we will not engage in idle talk, but in real parliamentary activity. And on your next question, because he's very legitimate. I'm asking you: why didn't you make an offer? Do it, come back not with a line, but with a speech and I will support it. You're absolutely right in two directions. The first direction is that everything in this country needs to be investigated. There shouldn't be immune circles, immune periods, nothing. Corruption has been scary since November 10th and throughout the period after that. That's why we want a special anti-corruption prosecution. So you're right, please offer it. I've already made my statement on this point. And in the second direction you are very right that every element of the activity of "Lukoil Neftohim" from the moment of the acquisition of "Neftohim Burgas" to the present day should be within the scope of this committee because it is an element of the influence of the Russian Federation in Bulgaria. You're right! Propose it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u136	To make a statement, Mr. Ilian Todorov is not in the room. Any other MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u137	I won't, I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u138	Here you are, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u139	Dear colleagues, we at the DPS do not have any problem with having such a committee. You know that in the public domain there is a certain opinion about given political powers. I will therefore call on my fellow Members to support the establishment of such an inquiry committee, as the subject matter of this committee concerns charges against certain political parties. I'd be very interested to see how colleagues would vote on this type of accusation. Their absence here shows that they are worried about this because they will come up with false facts that suggest that the DPS has some influence. That's the truth, guys! Those who oppose the establishment of such a committee actually show their own dependence on political life and worry that this will come out. I therefore call on those who have no concerns to vote in favour of this Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u140	Mr. Ilian Todorov is already in the room. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u141	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Yes, it is undeniable that the Republic of Turkey has been brutally interfering for years in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u142	That's what the Commission would say if we set it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u143	Okay. However, when we talk about countries to be listed in this Decision, I ask the meeting of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva on the occasion of her bill, when she gathered dozens of ambassadors to the National Assembly, who said it was a very bad sign that the bill was not adopted, is this interference in the internal affairs?! And if I do, should we list in the Decision all the countries whose ambassadors were at Kuneva and interfere with which law is good for Bulgaria and which law is good for Bulgaria: Netherlands, France, Germany, Great Britain, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Poland, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Cyprus, Spain, Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u144	No Switzerland!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u145	Do we have to list them all here? I also want to ask something else: as if we were in a pit, only looking at countries. Well, let's ask NGOs working on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u146	They're off the subject of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u147	Do they interfere in the internal affairs of Bulgaria? Does America for Bulgaria Foundation sponsor with tens and hundreds of millions of Bulgarian journalists, media that directly influence Bulgaria's domestic policy? That's why we at Ataka are making an editorial proposal: at the first point to include non-governmental organizations to see how many hundreds of million...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u148	What about the title? Point one goes by repeating the Commission's name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u149	Yes, and in the title to include NGO and to see how many and which non-governmental organizations have hundreds of million put into Bulgaria, which journalists have given them to serve foreign interests? Let us not deceive ourselves: journalism in Bulgaria determines to a great extent the domestic policy of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u150	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Honourable Members, in the order in which the editorial proposals on the draft decision on the establishment of the Time Commission were made, I will put the relevant proposals to the vote. First at the time, Mr Valeri Simeon proposed in the name of the Decision and in point one to be recorded: "Accordances for intervention of the Russian Federation, the Republic of Turkey and other countries." This is Mr. Valeri Simeonov's supplement. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 155 MPs: 41, Against 12, abstention 102. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mr. Bozhinov, who proposes to sound........................................ and the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey.......................................... We are voting on Mr. Bojinov's proposal in the name, respectively at point one. They voted 159 MPs: 52, against 53, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like a re-vote on the proposal of Mr. Bojinov and the group of BSP LB because the moods of different groups have been stated to support a unified name of the Commission, provided that its content of work gives rise to an infinite number of contradictions. Thank you for your attention. I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u152	It's a re-vote. They voted 161 MPs: 52, against 66, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal in the name of the Decision and in the first paragraph to delete the text of the Russian Federation. Isn't that right, Mr. Kadyev? We are voting on Mr. Kadiev's proposal in the name of the Decision and in point one to the Russian Federation. Vote 150 MPs: 28 against 72, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Radan Kanev's proposal for new points, first and second respectively, as he read this proposal, and points two and three on the draft decision to become respectively points four and five. I put to the vote the proposal for an addition in the operative part of the decision with new points two and three. We vote. They voted 141 MPs: 17 against 80, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Todorov has proposed. It shall propose in the name of the Commission and in art. 1 to be used for the use of non-governmental organizations. We vote. They voted 141 MPs: 25, against 42, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision with its name, basis and operative with four points, as proposed on behalf of the importers. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 158 MPs: 126 against 19, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I expect proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the committee and chairman. Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Members for the Commission will be Valentin Radev, who we propose to be President, and Dimitar Lazarov, who will be a Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u154	Any other suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u155	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, I propose as members of the committee Dr. Krasimira Kovachka and Svetlin Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u156	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u157	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose as members of the Temporary Commission Mr. Mustafa Karadayi and Mr. Kamen Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u158	Mr. Merdjanov from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u159	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria. We offer the gentlemen Atanas Zafirov and Philip Popov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u160	From the Patriotic Front?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u161	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, we propose Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov and Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov as members of the Commission. [[Radio, partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u162	From the other parliamentary groups? Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u163	Madam President, honourable Members, given that we have not been invited to sign today's proposal for this item on the agenda, given that our proposals have not been accepted, we will hold a meeting, we will decide whether we will participate and then propose people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u164	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. From Attack, ABB? Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u165	Madam President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Stanilov and Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva. [[Radio, partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u166	From the ABB? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u167	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the ABB Parliamentary Group has agreed to participate in the Commission with two members - Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u168	Thank you. Colleagues, proposals have been made on behalf of the parliamentary groups and statements from the Reformation Block Group that at this stage they will not propose members of the committee. After a discussion in the group, it is possible to join the group at a subsequent stage. Since there is only a proposal for a President, this is the proposal for Mr. Valentin Radev, and the other proposals correspond to the regulation by two representatives on behalf of a parliamentary group, I propose to put them to a general vote after reading them, so that we do not vote separately, so that everything is within the framework of the rules on which the committee is being established: President Valentin Radev, and Members Dimitar Lazarov, Krasimira Kovatchka, Svetlin Tanchev, Mustafa Karaday, Kamen Kostadinov, Atanas Zafirov, Filip Popov, Krassimir Karakachanov, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Stanislav Stanilov, Magdalena Tasheva, Georgi Kuchoslav Belemezov and Svetoslav Belemezov. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 146 MPs: 143, against 3, no abstentions. The composition and the Commission's leadership, in view of the proposals made so far by the parliamentary groups, has been adopted. Changes to Standing Committees of the National Assembly. With an inch. No 654-02-19 of 18 February 2016 was submitted to the Draft Decision on a change in the management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission. Project! DECISION on a change in the management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Next are signatures of importers. Is there a representative of the people who would like to speak? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not vote in this election for anything else, but in order to submit to party discipline, because my colleagues do not support this choice, and I believe that Mr. Tsvetanov should be elected president of this committee. Why? The first reason is because of personal qualities. Mr. Tsvetanov, if I am not mistaken, from the distant 1987 to 1988, starting his office in the Ministry of Interior as a regular employee, reaches the Minister of Interior, which means that he has the capacity to lead a parliamentary committee with such an activity. Secondly, I consider as a more important argument for his choice that responsibility for what is happening or for what is not happening in the security sector must be defined precisely and this must be the responsibility of GERB. Because I want to tell you this today from this tribune, this was also one of my motives for resigning, is that the so-called Security Sector is led by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is not unconstitutional because according to art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of the Council of Ministers is responsible for public order and security in the country. What does it mean to run the Security Sector manually? Mostly in personal terms, the only thing that happened after the coming of the second government of Mr. Boyko Borisov was that after a severe scandal and resignation of the Interior Minister Vuchkov, a person who, in my opinion, is a very good expert in this area, were released two heads of staff were released. Nothing ever happened again! All those personal appointments to nodes in the Security Sector, which were made during the government of Plamen Oresharski, remained in their positions. This is an extremely important moment. I wouldn't want to personalize this, but I would like to tell you that a major agency like the State Agency for Technical Operations is practically working in the private interest, and that is why there are extensive data, I want to tell you. Secondly, the State Agency is a national security agency, and I do not want to use that expression, but in the end it is on a double ride. One part of her management is trying to work for the state, and the other part is working in a private interest. In the Ministry of Interior in a number of positions there are people who do not work for the state. You'll ask who they're working for? They work for the Sarai-library group, ladies and gentlemen, it's public knowledge, and it has to be said...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u170	Give me proof!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u171	I'll give it to you. Evidence as much as you want. Are you from this group? [[Noise and lines.]] No, because I'm surprised you react that way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u172	Colleagues, please don't enter the debate in an irregular way. You'll have the opportunity to say a few lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u173	So it is precisely because of this that it is good for these two committees to be led by people from GERB, to be responsible for what, as I said, is happening or not happening in the Security Sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u174	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u175	Madam President, honourable Members! I will vote against this nomination by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov for the following reasons. Technically, constitutionally, we have a coalition government, not a single party government. We therefore need to talk about balance in the election of the chair of parliamentary committees. Let me see which important committees are currently in the hands of the GERB party? I will list them in order to be more convincing: the Energy Commission Mr. Delyan Dobrev; the Budget and Finance Committee - Menda Stoyanova; [[noise and lines]] The Committee on Legal Affairs "Daniel Kirilov; the Committee on Foreign Policy "Jema Grozdanova; the Committee on Environment and Water; the Committee on Transport and I am going to the Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u176	Transport no, transport no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u177	...also headed by your representative. After GERB, honourable Members, holds the Commission for Control of the Services and Special Intelligence Funds, now a representative of GERB is offered again...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u178	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u179	...to head up the Internal Affairs Commission. No, it's not natural. Such a choice, honourable Members, is a parliamentary obsession by the ruling party within the Security Sector coalition, and I strongly object to this, and I will therefore vote against it. Secondly, I am against this nomination for other reasons. Why can't Mr. Tsvetanov be head of Internal Affairs? The head of this Commission must be a person with experience in the field of internal security that he has, I agree. [[noise and lines]] But not to be a strong party-colored person, I stress that. [[Noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] Because it is a Commission that oversees the Ministry of Interior and the security services, and they are, by presumption, depoliticized and, above all, departistized. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov is a bright party candidacy that will question the objectivity of this committee. It's him! This thing has been proven. He is vice-chairman of the ruling party and chief director of the ruling party. Do you think that this is the kind of person that should head the Internal Parliamentary Commission, which should be led by an objective and, if possible, impartial person? Secondly, he is the chairman of the ruling party's election headquarters. Who will lead this committee, for example, the Internal Commission, during the election campaign for the president this autumn, when they will rain signals of crime again, I stress this He will lead this Internal Commission, which will deal with these crimes in the electoral sections, which are dealt with by the Ministry of Interior, and at the same time is chairman of the election headquarters of GERB. [[GERB lines.]] Moreover, since our memory is quite short, as Interior Minister Mr. Tsvetanov made an unforgivable mistake on this stands. Even because of this mistake alone, he cannot be the chairman of this committee. Do you remember in December 2011 as the interior minister of this tribune he read recorded conversations between gynecologists at the hospital in Gorna Oryahovitsa, detained on suspicion of the murder of a newborn and later released? Later Mr. Tsvetanov apologized from this tribune saying that he apologized to doctors in Bulgaria because he was misunderstood. This action is also a very serious argument to be an impartial head of the Internal Affairs Committee in the Bulgarian Parliament. Adding this to the beginning of what I said about the balance in the committee's management, this balance is mostly broken in the security sector, as you will receive two committees, extremely important "Inner and the Commission for Control" I stress what is called this commission of services, special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Excuse me very much, but you will be overeat with control of the security services in Bulgaria, which is why I call on the entire opposition to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u180	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u181	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm sorry about the question I asked in the previous debate. I figured out what the rush was, and that makes it sound more right. And now to say why Mr. Atanasov has the party discipline to vote against his conscience, because someone might think that it is a personal attitude towards GERB or as a result of the system lines that we exchange with Mr. Tsvetanov, which would be very bad for the Bulgarian Parliament to have such motivation in such an important vote. But it's not! The party discipline at the DSB commands Mr. Atanasov, as well as all MPs from the DSB, to vote against it in the name of the stability of the state, because being opposition does not mean being against the stability of the state, but even less means being against the security of its citizens, which the Ministry of Interior must provide. Fellow Members of the majority, it is very bad for the stability of the state which you are called to protect to produce at the highest possible level the conflict between the GERB Parliamentary Group and the Home Minister that we all see. This will result in poor results for the stability of the country and for the security of individual citizens. This is the only reason we are voting against this decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u182	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? For a statement? [[Heckling]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u183	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, for two months now the Internal Commission and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications have no guidance. In the Programme Declaration of GERB and the Reformation Block we have recorded an urgent fight against domestic crime..................................................................................... We have recorded the administration's optimization in the sector of Homeland Security and Order, the same thing that cannot be implemented under a failed Commission in full and without guidance; we have recorded the construction of the fence along the southern border of something that is once again a matter of internal security and order. And in this regard, I believe that it is necessary today to choose from the proposals both for the President of the Internal Commission and President of the Transport Commission, at least because the proposals are good, and at least because a former Interior Minister is proposed a man who can deal with security and internal order. That is why we will be voting
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u184	- What's the line? The debate is closed. I put to the vote the decision to change the leadership of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order for the election of Mr. Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. We vote. Vote 155 MPs: 145 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. [[Applause on the right.]] By letter No 654-02-20 of 18 February 2016, a draft decision on a change in the management of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications was proposed: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev as Chairman of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Statements? I won't. Colleagues, in the basis of the draft decision, in order to have a mirror between the newly adopted Decision, after.............................................................................................................. 20, para. 3 of the Staff Regulations to add to the list of Regulations of Officials of the European Union. 22, para. In order to make the connection why the Commission has been without a chairman until now. I shall put to the vote the draft decision on a change in the management of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, together with the supplement on the basis: except for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 20, para. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 22, para. 4 of the Staff Regulations for the election of Mr. Ananiev as Chairman of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We vote. They voted 133 MPs: 98 against 11, abstention 24. The proposal is accepted, and this puts an end to the legislative part of today's plenary day. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 12 to 18 February 2016 from: - National Representative Teodora Georgieva of Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the movement on the Cadastral Map of the Student City and at what stage it is. The reply should be made in writing by 2 March 2016. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on 7 issues by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 6 questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Zhelev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on two questions by the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on eight questions from the National Representative Dimitar Gorov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - additional information to a written reply from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Kadiev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Boris Stanimirov. First in today's parliamentary control will be Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister. Before that, there will be a Declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u185	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we celebrate 143 years of the destruction of Vasil Levski, is a day dedicated to the immortality of the Bulgarian spirit, a day of worship and honor, but also to reflection on the Bulgarian present and future, because Levski is the person that unites all Bulgarians, regardless of our different feelings to the time we live in. His modern for his time look at the development of our country and today is still the ideal that touches conscience. Vasil Levski's case is the most faithful guide to our actions, an inexhaustible source for the national self-esteem of the Bulgarians. We should not forget the apostle's timeless and eternal words about a holy and pure Republic in which all citizens and peoples can live freely and in equality, to be solidarity with one another, patriotic, but also tolerant, a covenant that we must remember and follow in today's complicated and dynamic time. Today, more than ever, consent, unity and stability are needed on the most important issues. They are our national security and our unconditional basis for the self-esteem of European citizens. Today, when Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens want to be respected, we are obliged to remember the democratic values bequeathed by the Apostle because the sacrifice of the great Levski is invariably linked to the European ideals of freedom, national dignity and humanity. But Levski does not belong only to Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. Genchev's ideas about freedom and revolution, his realizations and, above all, the unsurpassed in the history of the liberation struggles People's revolutionary organization, his insights into the future, where he designed a reasonable human world, and its immortal spirit belong to all humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that by upholding the values and achievements of our contemporary democratic parliamentaryism, we must respect the historical covenants of Vasil Levski. Let us remember that we are called together to give answers to the questions after the People???♪ written by Levski in his genius pocket book ♪ Let us remember: I work for the Fatherland, bye! You tell mine and I your curvature, let's fix it and let's all go together. Dellas need words, not words. Bow before the Apostle's memory! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u186	Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u187	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Unknownly how it happened, but we Bulgarians often say that we celebrate the anniversary of important events in our history. I also read in many places today the word is not celebrated, we do not pay tribute, we do not pay tribute, but we do. I hope and believe that in his soul every Bulgarian citizen, he and the MP, does not mark the 143th anniversary of the death of Vasil Levski, but pays tribute to the destruction of this extraordinary Bulgarian and extraordinary person. I've been asked the hard question: can a gallows be celebrated? I think it can, just as most of us worship the cross on which the Son of God was crucified. What was this man who, in the dark time of tyranny and slaves, described in detail in his letters, was able to exclaim in 1870: "And we are human and want to live human, to be completely free in our land, where the Bulgarian lives: in Bulgaria, Thrace and Macedonia! And of whatever nationality they live in this paradise of ours, they will be equal to the Bulgarians in everything. We will have a flag that will say "Holy and pure Republic! " - Was he a gullible or just outlived our time?! What wisdom did he have that, despite all his heat for struggle, for revolution to cut down: We play with the lives of seven million Bulgarians, so mature must act.! When has he accumulated this combination between the desire for decisive action, for a bloody battle and an unreal humanity and wisdom in those times?! Perhaps this alloy appeared from the gathering in one of the humble Deacon Ignatius and the proud bannerman of the Read of Panayot Hitov Vassil Luvskiy, between the soul praying in the monastery and the soldier of the First Bulgarian Legion, attacking the Belgrade fortress?! By the way, because the Bulgarian Guardsmen wear the same uniform of the Bulgarian Legion, we may live to see the day when the Bulgarian Guard keeps the monument of the Apostala throughout the year, not only on February 19th. Whatever we say about Levski, it's either a little bit or an excessive amount. If I lose, I only lose, if I win, a whole nation wins, often repeats. I think today, on the day of his doom, there in the distant 1873, in the cold and foggy February morning, he lost himself, but won his entire people. Eternal honor and glory! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u188	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Any other affidavits? I won't. We are starting today's parliamentary control with a group of questions and questions to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs. The first question is from the MP Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov on the National Strategy for the Preparation of Preventive Measures for Non-Ethnic Conflicts. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the summer of 2015, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I had the opportunity, during parliamentary control, to ask you a question related to tensions in the villages of Katuntsi and Garmen and the metropolitan district of Orlandovtsi. Since these are problems that concern our national security, I believe that it is critical to introduce preventive measures to prevent such conflicts. My arguments are that, in the course of dealing with such issues, the joint efforts of all responsible institutions must be taken. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you the following questions: has the strategy been developed to create an extended public debate with the participation of the Ministry of Interior, the National Association of Municipalities, NGOs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and others, and is there at present a general analysis of the critical potential points of conflict? Has there already been a government strategy to resolve and prevent such conflicts? What is your assessment so far of the activities of the National Crime Prevention Council created immediately after the recent events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u190	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Madam Vice Prime Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Belemezov, the question you are asking is in several directions. First of all, I would like to say that what happened last year in Garmen and in the Orlando people gave us a very good opportunity to assess the real effective measures that can be taken in such a situation. The analysis of the situation showed that the root of these problems was mainly due to the unresolved property relations of illegal housing and the accumulated problems, which over the years had not been solved in essence by any previous management to be eradicated. The other lesson from the development of these cases was that we felt and actually saw the potential of joint actions at the local level of all institutions. We are convinced that when they work together, well enough, with a clear plan of action, problems can be solved and prevented. I have had the opportunity to present to you the specific measures that the Ministry of Interior has taken to prevent tensions, but since you are asking about the Crime Prevention Commission, I will give you the following details. The Commission has gathered several times and found that despite all institutions involved with these problems, the main reason for the insufficient effectiveness of this mechanism is the lack of coordination units and the lack of efforts to coordinate these units. Each institution shall implement its own measures, but in order for them to be effective, they must gather in one place and be able to be analysed in order to make the right decisions. That is why we hold and united in the Council about the conclusion that for more effective prevention at local level, where the real dangers exist, the work of existing local public order and security committees must be improved. They will play the role of a key coordination mechanism for the implementation of the prevention policy at local level. These committees represent the territorial units of the various state institutions. There are also NGOs and associations involved in them. Strengthening them as a tool for effective coordination on prevention will help solve specific problems with crime at local level. This is the conversation and the instructions we have with our territorial structures and in the work of the Council, in which the National Association of Municipalities participates. As for the Strategy, which is a very important document, without such a strategy, we could not have systematic measures. It is carried out through the work of the Council. Within the Council, we coordinate centrally the efforts of all institutions. In a few months, we have been able to do the following: order each of the institutions participating in the Council to draw up a report defining problems and measures that will be taken. I will provide you with a detailed reference to what we have been provided with....................................................................................................... and................................................................................................................................................ Based on the reports, we outlined five major groups of problems at national level. After analysis, we have united around several priorities and objectives on which we will work over the next three years. We are about to approve a plan for the implementation of the priorities and achievement of the objectives of the National Council for Crime Prevention for the period 2016 - 2018, mainly with the stylistics in it being mainly specific, related to clear and concrete activities. Our main objectives and priorities are: Firstly, building an environment of tolerance among children and young people, raising a spirit of responsibility and developing a civil culture. We're working on it. I have a meeting with Minister Kuneva on this matter to see how to speed things up. Secondly, creating conditions for reducing the risk of crime among vulnerable groups, aiming to limit fraud, the attacks on elderly lonely people living in small and remote towns, the implementation of support for social rehabilitation of persons released from prison and on probation, punished by probation, increasing the educational, cultural and social status of marginalized population groups, all targets that cannot be resolved at once, unfortunately. Thirdly, building a secure and safe environment in the settlements. Fourth, building sustainable partnerships. Last thing I want to say is that we've identified all the risk zones across the country. There is such a map and according to it we have given specific tasks to be performed by our authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. You have three more minutes after we hear Mr. Belemezov's supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, we are talking about an extremely serious topic. I use the moment that today is February 19th "We celebrate 143 years of the Apostle of Freedom Vasil Levski's immortality. Colleagues in the Chamber said during reading their statements that his main thesis, which he followed in his own way, was that he needed works, not words. In some way, many people we have spoken to here in Parliament, including in our electoral regions with our fellow citizens, fellow believers and followers, we are under the impression that since that moment, since last year, it has not been done enough in this direction. What do I mean? If you recall, last year the Ministry of Interior was in the main public focus. At that time, all the parliamentary groups insisted that other responsible institutions should enter this public focus, so that the situation can be analysed very correctly, on the basis of which specific prescriptions are to be drawn, which outside the rhetoric in politics, must reach the people themselves on the ground, as the main calling of politics is to solve people's problems and not just debate them. We are under the impression that, including the Crime Prevention Commission, which was established by the Council of Ministers, has not been effective enough so far. Our main motive for these claims is that we have not had the opportunity, including in Parliament, to comment on something concrete. In other words, an analysis was made on the basis of which, as I said just now, specific prescriptions should be drawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u194	Mr. Belemezov, there's no more time for motives. Formulate only the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u195	I thank you for the efforts made by the Ministry of Interior and once again I would like to appeal to this programme to include properly all responsible institutions. My specific question is: can you give specific data on what the analysis really shows? As a second question: could you disclose a little more information about the conflict point map? I am saying this because, including us as a parliamentary group over the past year, we have had the opportunity to place this issue very strongly, that it is necessary to initiate such a map on which to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u196	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the additional questions. For your conclusion, Mr. Belemezov, I will give you one minute, since I left you three minutes to develop the additional questions. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u197	Dear Mr. Belemezov, the questions you ask require quite long answers. I can commit myself to providing you with proposals and a plan developed by the various departments for measures that we have examined and which practically address identified problems in the different sectors. We're working on it. As for the rest of your interest, I can say that this is a process that we continue to work on. The map, I think, was presented at one of the internal committee meetings. The fact that we did not have any significant problems in these risk regions during the local elections and shortly thereafter, I think that the measures that we have implemented have been effective. In a moment, I will provide you with detailed information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u198	Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, to express your attitude to the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My attitude towards the response of Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova is actually positive from the point of view that both at that critical moment and at the moment the Ministry of Interior somehow recognizes its active and important role at institutional level in this process. If you remember, at the end of the parliamentary session, just before the summer vacation, speaking on this subject, I appealed to you: let us, after the month of August, at the beginning of September, perhaps in October, have the opportunity, including the parliamentary groups together with all relevant institutions, to meet on this issue at a round table and to speak specifically on this issue. My appeal is still the same in this direction. I really hope that the map of the specific conflict points that has been made could also be reduced to the attention of municipal representation on the ground so that we can take adequate measures, as it is human destinies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u200	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Now we can move on to the issue of the MP Dimitar Delchev regarding political propaganda through employees of confessions. You are welcome to ask and motivate your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in meetings with voters in ethnically mixed areas, for example I will give Targovishte, Razgrad, Shumen, I have received numerous signals of agition by priests who preach Muslim faith during the local elections in 2015. The main mufti Mustafa Hadji, who in an interview with the media, reports that he knows about many cases where imams and regional mufti have campaigned for political parties during their sermons. I also have such data for agition in evangelical churches in the municipalities of Sofia and Plovdiv region. The spread of political messages by priests, regardless of which religion, is seriously worried. Religion is based on values and moral principles that are sacred to believers. The role of the preachers is to inspire humility and honor to God, not to call for the conquest of authority. Bulgarian politics is made by Bulgarian politicians! Although at present it is mainly about campaigning in favour of certain political forces, there is a danger that this campaign will grow into propaganda and, as we see in other parts of the world, this could lead to extremism and radicalisation, because mixing religion with politics poses great risks to society. In this regard are my questions: have you received in the ministry's trusted signals of political agitation by priests in the last three years when there were elections from 2013 to 2015? How many signals are received each year? In which areas have religious campaign signals been received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u202	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u203	Dear Mr. Delchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In central police statistics over the past three years, there have been no recorded signals concerning political propaganda among religious officials. The staff of the Ministry of Interior shall have competence and take the necessary action when they have received signals of violations of the political rights of citizens regulated in Articles 167 and 169 of the Criminal Code. Since the Department of Religions of the Council of Ministers also has responsibilities in this process, it regulates the right to religion and its protection, as well as the legal situation of religious communities and institutions and their relations with the state. I checked there, and there were no signals in that period either. I am taking this opportunity to encourage you and those who have submitted such signals to place them in the regional directorates in order to carry out the appropriate checks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u204	Here you go, Mr. Delchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u205	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I really thank you for calling on Bulgarian citizens to be vigilant and to alert the competent authorities in cases of such incidents and unpleasant violations of the law. It's really in the penal code. 166 prescribes that sacred institutions can't participate in pep talk and shouldn't do pep talk. I will continue with my tours, I will continue to collect similar signals, and yet Bulgarian citizens must know that really politics is reserved for the politically active people, and religion is reserved for the faith of the Lord and for the conversion to the sacred values of religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u206	Thank you. A hole? You won't use it. We are moving on to a question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the effectiveness of video surveillance in the regions of the passenger and border railway stations in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for two minutes to present and motivate the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, after the terrorist act at Sarafovo Airport in the town of Sarafovo. Burgas in July 2012 the State-owned Railway Infrastructure Company (National Company) in less than a year has provided video surveillance of the major passenger stations at almost all border stations with a view to preventing terrorism and countering crime. In operational and on-the-job units of the closed districts, the transport police in the country were constantly monitored through an alert and response in the event of a need. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: What is the number of passenger and border stations in the country where there is a built and functioning video surveillance and which structure of the Ministry of Interior uses this equipment to date? Does the unit using this video surveillance have the functional and material competence to register, detect and investigate a crime under the Ministry of Interior Act? Is the video surveillance of the railway stations Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv currently used to prevent terrorism and counter crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u208	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Madam Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, I will read a long list of the distribution of the cameras on the passenger and distribution railway stations and will then provide you in writing details of what state they are in at the moment, which seems to me to be more orderly, with a view to ensuring the security of the work. At present there is a video surveillance of fourteen passenger railway stations and one distribution station, of which seven railway stations are bordered. Video surveillance systems include a total of 239 cameras. Currently 39 cameras are not monitored due to damage or untranslated signal as a result of the use of a new building fund. The video surveillance systems are owned by a state-owned railway infrastructure company and technical support and modernization are the company's commitment. The video surveillance is carried out by employees of the sectors "Conservation of public order in railway transport" to the national gendarmerie departments of the "Gendarmeria" Directorate. The distribution along railway stations, number of cameras and their surveillance is as follows: - Dragoman railway station - Railway Station Kulata - Railway Station Vidin - Ruse railway station. Passenger station. again border station.. 19 cameras; - Ruse railway station................................. 10 cameras; - Svilengrad railway station "7 cameras; - Kardam Train Station - Shumen railway station 14 cameras; - Mezdra railway station 10 cameras; - Gorna Oryahovitsa railway station "16 cameras; - Pleven Station 12 cameras; - Train station Varna "15 cameras; - train station Plovdiv 20 cameras; - Stara Zagora railway station "17 cameras; - Burgas railway station 64 cameras. Regarding your second question, the employees of the Department of Zhendarmeria also use video surveillance systems and observe public order, carry out activities to cross and prevent crimes on the territory of the railway infrastructure and transport in the country. The conduct of operational and search activities, the registration, detection and investigation of crimes shall be carried out by staff of the relevant Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to your last question, at the moment the video surveillance of the railway stations Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv is enjoyable and has a positive effect and has proven its effectiveness. Video surveillance helps to identify in due time the owners of abandoned baggage; persons declared missing; carrying out an inspection of suspicious persons and motor vehicles; crossing groups of public policy violations and assistance to persons in need of medical care.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Belemezov, for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am actually bringing this issue up, as I believe that, in view of the closure of the specialized unit of the Transport Police in 22 July 2014 coordination and interaction between the various authorities on the prevention of terrorism and the fight against crime in the territory of the railway infrastructure were disrupted. At present, Mrs. Bachvarova, I believe that video surveillance is used by uniform structures of the Department of Gendarmerie, which in itself asks the question whether the gendarmers actually perform typical functions for their activity? I don't think that's true. I also believe that they do not have the necessary competence and experience to analyse information from such systems. As another problem, I believe that the signal of such a kind of video surveillance of some railway stations is taken to a service room at the police uniforms at the station itself. I refer to Vidin railway station, Ruse railway station, Pleven. In the event of a possible signal for an improvised explosive device in the area of these railway stations, on established procedures in the Ministry of Interior, immediately secession of the area, removal of all citizens and personnel from the area of the administrative building itself. In such a case, we are going bankrupt to ensure the necessary control, the necessary video surveillance and the necessary security, as those people who carry out this activity inside will have to be cut off. I had the opportunity in 2015 to ask you a question concerning the Transport Police. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One second, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...as it became clear from your reply that police statistics were not yet adapted to the current organisation of activity at the time, that is to say, it is difficult to obtain information, register crime and process them. In this context, Mrs. Bachvarova, I think it is necessary to re-examine the issue of the recovery of the Department of Transport, in response to which I would expect to hear from you the possibility that this issue will be discussed again at a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u212	Would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u213	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u214	Okay. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarov and Georgi Gokov about preparing the municipalities to take action to overcome the spread of disease. Mr. Gokov will ask the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, every year the municipalities face huge difficulties with timely and, I would say, proper funding of the mosquito-fighting events. The question we are putting at first glance seems insignificant, but I assure you it is not. I reviewed the National Assembly's transcripts back in time and it became clear to me that the problem has been standing for years and has not been solved annually or partially solved. I have no reason to believe that he will be resolved differently now. Seeing as how the Ministry is dealing with other problems, I don't think this one will be among the problems we will be dealing with either. The issue is becoming even more important and urgent because the World Health Organization has recently raised the level of anxiety about the spread of the virus, which, as you know, is transmitted by mosquitoes. The director of the World Health Organization described its spread as potentially pandemic, and in the scientific community, they said that the mosquito that carries the virus is present all over the world. In addition, there is no vaccine, no treatment of the disease, but only of its symptoms. These are all reasons to take urgent preventive measures to limit the population of mosquitoes, especially in Danube and maritime municipalities, but not only there, because this mosquito carrier of the virus is increasingly widespread in Europe and also in our country. It has been officially confirmed for several years in the Burgas region, but currently there is data on it up to 200 meters altitude in Blagoevgrad, Vratsa, Montana, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora. It is not excluded to be spread in other settlements. I pulled a map of the spread of this virus from the Internet, but I do not need to promote it, because there are enough scientific institutions in Bulgaria that can help you in this regard. My question to you is: within what time will the necessary funds be provided for the timely conduct of mandatory sanitary events in the municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u216	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, the question is very clear about the coming spring. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer and information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u217	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Gokov! Yeah, it's a serious problem. However, I fear that you are not addressing it properly because with the amendments to the Public Finance Act 2014 the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers does not provide funds directly to the municipalities. The Commission shall examine requests for financing by implementing technical projects and adopt such decisions at its meeting. The Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers, on the basis of the decisions taken, that funds be allocated to municipalities which have submitted eligible requests for recovery of the effects of various disasters. The funds of the municipalities are provided by a decree of the Council of Ministers and not through the Commission. The mandatory sanitary events of the municipalities are predictable costs and are an activity that needs to be carried out annually. Local authorities are the ones to make the necessary estimates, what funds are necessary for the implementation of sanitary events and to provide in their budget funding for them. During the past year, the Commission has not considered requests and decisions to finance mosquito treatment activities, which is a reason to assume that municipalities have implemented such events with the funds from municipal budgets. In the Interdepartmental Commission, we could decide to finance certain activities for municipalities where the relevant assessment has been made and there is evidence of an increased risk of infection. In order to consider a request for funding, it should comply with the terms and conditions of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Interdepartmental Commission, that is to say, we are once again entering this circle. The Minister of Health, according to art. 5 of Ordinance No 3 of 24 January 2005 on the conditions and procedures for the operation of disinfectants, disinsects and deratizations may order the carrying out of targeted disinfections and all other procedures. And when there is such an order, the different municipalities, with the organizational assistance of the National Association of Municipalities, could do an analysis and estimate which and how many municipalities are where there is a need to finance to carry out the activities. The next step is to make a request to the Interdepartmental Commission, including a clear estimate of the planned costs and a plan how municipal activities are organised. To date, the Commission has no registered requests regarding the need for additional funds. In connection with the epidemiological situation occurring in South America and in some European countries with the spread of the virus, Zika. In a letter to the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria of 3 February 2016, the Chief State Health Inspector has appealed for the timely conduct of the procedures for the award of public contracts for the organisation and execution of effective dissecting and dissaccharisation services in the territory of the municipalities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The letter expressed readiness to provide specialized assistance by the Ministry of Health, the National Centre for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and Regional Health Inspections in identifying risk treatment sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u218	Thank you for your answer. The Minister of Health is energetic, you'll draw him into the fight against mosquitos. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u219	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it has become clear from your response that there is no state policy in this area and you have no intention to conduct or organise. The reason is that you are really putting us in an enchanted circle, that is, you will finance something when it already exists as a problem for the state, that is, when the consequences of this problem need to be solved. So I understood at least that the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers suppresses the consequences that arise as a result of such situations. In the first government of GERB every year there are events for this activity in June and July, which is unacceptable because it makes absolutely no sense. I would like to point out to you that our question is: did you estimate the municipalities have or do not have the opportunity to cover these costs? You know that only some have such an opportunity. For the most part, there is no financial resource to cover the type of expenditure that is being incurred. Secondly, the question is: what time? Because if you, if the months of March, April, by talking about state policy, do not do what is necessary to organise this activity, there is no point in doing anything from now on. I will return you 2013 when it was precisely because of the failure of these activities in time that the State paid 13 million. lv. for farmers' benefits for the "syn language' disease, which is similarly distributed through mosquitoes. Now we have an even bigger challenge. After all, it comes to the situation that whole countries are being passed on to this plague. In Brazil, what did they say? The Mosquitos have defeated us! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I therefore appeal to you to pay serious attention to the matter of making it necessary and to use the month of April in particular coordinated and controlled so as to conduct all necessary events in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot. Since the issue is not only about funding, it is also about coordination, inasmuch as mosquitoes do not comply with the boundaries between municipalities. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] You don't have anything else to add. Okay. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov on the implementation of integration programmes for refugees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is about the integration of refugees. One issue which became particularly hot after the hot summer of 2013. The then government with Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski formed a working group and set several very ambitious goals, one of which was integration, especially for refugee children, but you understand that the time was not enough to continue working on this issue. As a matter of fact, the caretaker government has done nothing about it. I am obliged to share your efforts, as well as your colleague Ivaylo Kalfin, that you have repeatedly raised the question of the need for integration last 2015. I know that you held meetings at the Ministry of Interior with representatives of the business, there were many passionate statements of Commissioner Kristalina Georgieva on this issue. In this regard, my question to you today is: what are the integration programmes currently taking place on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, since when do they act and with what specific subject are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u222	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Merdjanov, the topic of the integration of foreign citizens, in the case of refugees, is an important topic and I will tell you what we have done so far. It relates mainly to the regulatory and institutional settlement of this issue. I'll keep you informed. Yes, there are projects that implement non-profit organizations that have started. At the moment there are for those for which conditions have been created in the State Agency for Refugees, but what we need to say before we list what we have done so far, that in order for the integration process to take place, it must be clear who we integrate. Currently the centers of the SAB are filled at 12%, and the centers of the "Migration" where they are waiting to decide whether there are grounds for obtaining such status are about 30%. In practice, we have no one to integrate, and this must be clear at this time, because the people who come, submit documents for registration... or do not wait and leave, or receive the status and leave again. We don't have a chance and legal means to keep them. That's why I can't really describe a really active program to you right now. I have determined on my visits to these homes that conditions have been created, yes, during your government's time. There are such opportunities for both men and women and children quite good, but there are no people in them. What we have done in order to be ready with regard to the commitment made to the resettlement and resettlement is on 2 October we adopted the Law on Asylum and Refugees and, in particular, the text under art. 37a, which provides for the conclusion of an Integration Agreement. That is, if we make this commitment, there must be commitments on the other side. The agreement will be concluded, on the one hand, with the person to whom asylum is granted and, on the other, by the mayor of the municipality where he lives; it will arrange for the inclusion of the foreigner in a local integration programme and local integration programmes will be developed by the municipalities and will include: possibility of housing, possibility of enrollment in kindergarten and school for children, possibility of providing training in Bulgarian language, healthcare, job vacancies, opportunity for professional guidance and inclusion in adult training, employment and training measures and other measures at the initiative of the host country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So far, all of this has been arranged in the regulation that we have adopted, and it is very important that we still know what the profile of the people who come to us is. It has changed since last year, and this is undoubtedly linked to our readiness to implement these programmes, because if we had over 40% Syrian citizens last year, this percentage now falls on Iraqi citizens. Most of the places where we have managed to register from those entering our territory are either illiterate or uneducated persons, which creates another case. We've got a legal stand-by. The question is, who are we going to apply it to?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u224	Thank you. Do you have any lines, Mr. Merdjanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I was kind of expecting a similar answer. Of course, it does not satisfy me because explanations of the variety now do not want to stay to settle in Bulgaria. We face a potential danger in the coming months, a year. I don't see how we're going to get away with such an effort by the institutions, by all the state and local authorities. Moreover, you personally made the commitment to relocation of about 2,300 citizens. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u226	1300 at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u227	1300 isn't short. You understand that with just one naked willingness to expect the influx of refugees and only then to get startled and start creating conditions is not quite serious. In my opinion, one of the problems of these mixed efforts is the division of the responsibilities of the deputy prime ministers in the government, as Mrs. Kuneva is responsible for European policies, Mr. Kalfin is also responsible for social integration, Mr. Donchev is responsible for EU funds, you are responsible for the State Agency for Refugees. The government's coordinating body is lost, which really needs to assume daily, serious responsibilities and not wait for the accumulation of a serious human mass and the search for a solution then, and now it needs to be aware of what should be done in such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u228	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u229	Dear Mr. Merdjanov, you're right. On many levels there are allocated responsibilities. This is natural because, for example, the Ministry of Interior cannot carry out social activities. The Council is therefore interdepartmental and co-chaired with Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin. I will tell you again: we are ready, we know where we will distribute people, how the processes will go, we are talking to local authorities, but it is very important to know who will be integrated, where and what measures will be implemented. I hope, in view of the existing real danger, there will not be that much pressure. But we have three possible options for developing the situation in the plan that we have prepared and the part about integration is part of it. So we're ready on this line as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u230	Thank you. This ended the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. Next questions are addressed to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. The people representative Antony Trenchev will ask a question about the security of the Bulgarian schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! More and more often we witness the invading of parents in Bulgarian schools for the purpose of fighting themselves with teachers or students. The last recorded cases are in the cities of Burgas, Sevlievo, and there was a case in Pleven in the High School of Arts. I admit that question was written over a month ago. There's probably cases like this. But even if there are no new ones, it's only a matter of time before we're confronted with similar cases again. In this regard, I would like to ask two questions. First, are there schools in Bulgaria where there is no physical security guard? Secondly, does the Ministry of Education and Science provide for the introduction of common standards for security in schools in order to increase the security of students, teachers and support staff in Bulgarian schools and, if so, what are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u232	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. National Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! It's really important. The cases of violence in Bulgarian schools always cause concern both in the system and in the whole society. We have to realize that the education system can't be isolated from the public environment, from the street, from home. If there is violence there, we can hardly expect the school to be insured by such events. This does not mean, however, that we should not constantly and purposefully make an effort for a safer and more peaceful environment at school. What are we doing, Ministry of Education and Science? We perform a special analysis regarding the security of Bulgarian schools and the results showed the following. The total number of schools in the country is 2555 and 1400 are provided with physical security and all school buildings. The schools without physical security are 837 and with partial physical security of the buildings are 306. In all areas, measures have been taken to improve the security of students, together with the school guides, the Ministry of Interior, the regional and municipal administration, improve the school crossing regime, draw up duty schedules, conclude contracts with security companies and limit access to outsiders, train the staff, instruct the students, strengthen control over the performance of security guards' duties, install additional cameras, better illumination of school yards. It seems a dry enumeration, but in fact, behind each of these measures are concrete and serious efforts. The guarantee of security under the Law is a commitment of the municipalities, and the one in force and the one about to enter into force from 1 August, I stress. However, I believe that the Ministry of Education should have a much more active policy in this regard. Therefore, in March, we will hold a National Security Meeting in school together with representatives of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice, DANS, NGOs, representatives of the local authorities and others. During this meeting, schools will share their good security practices. We will also discuss the possibility of developing common standards for school security. At the Ministry of Education and Science we will offer to the Council of Ministers the National Program "Accommodating and secure school" and by module "Secure" it is expected to be financed by the purchase of physical funds for control of access in schools. The funds provided for are EUR 1,5 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u234	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer you gave. I'm pleasantly surprised how quickly you've already entered the heart of what's happening at the Ministry. I am also pleased that there is continuity between you and the efforts of the former Minister of Education. Indeed, the security problems of both children and teachers are extremely important. I admire the efforts in this direction and hope that these cases in the black chronicles of the news are becoming more and more rare in our daily lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u236	Thank you. Would you like to use the back? No, thank you. We are moving on to a question from the MP Boris Stanimirov about studying in school education the crimes of the communist regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! In our legislation there is a law in force for declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal since 2000. By decision of 18 September 2008, the Commission notified the Commission of its decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 40th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria supported the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism. The ideas set out in the Prague Declaration were also developed in the European Parliament Resolution of 2 April 2009. Several resolutions in the same vein are adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation and other international structures in which Bulgaria participates. On 12 November 2014, I submitted a Draft Law amending and supplementing the People's Education Act providing for the correction of history textbooks so that young people can be informed about the crimes of communist regimes in the same way that they are informed about the crimes of national socialism and fascism. After the adoption of the first vote on the new Law on pre-school and school education, 29 MPs from the Reformation Block, GERB and the Patriotic Front submitted a proposal in the Law to add a text which envisions one of the objectives of school education according to art. 5, para. 6, that is, the understanding of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights and freedoms, to include information of the students about the crimes of totalitarian regimes in Europe, including the communist regime in Bulgaria within the meaning of the Law declaring the communist regime criminal. Following a double discussion in the Committee on Education and Science and a discussion in plenary, the proposal was not accepted. The argument of some of the colleagues who abstained was that such a provision had no place in the Law, but in the study plans for the history education in secondary education. Following the rejection of the proposal and the adoption of the Law in its current form, a large group of MPs from different parliamentary groups signed a petition requesting the crimes of totalitarian regimes, including communism in Bulgaria, to be studied thoroughly and objectively in school. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u238	If you could focus on formulating your question, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u239	The petition was joined by organizations and the president of the Republic. In this regard, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: what steps has your ministry taken or intends to take in order to ensure, within the framework of the history training in secondary schools, a thorough and objective study of the crimes of the communist regime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u240	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, please respond. You have the floor, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stanimirov, thank you for the question. It really excites a small part of the society a fact that every politician should respect. Everyone! There is no doubt that history should give not only knowledge of certain historical periods, but also create attitudes and values in our understanding of the world, of the historical past, and hence of our present. In this context, I think it is very disturbing what we have seen recently after the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, according to which 90% of young people between 15 and 35 say they know nothing or almost nothing about the communist regime. Today we have given our assessment of this historical period in a number of international acts and national laws, which you also mention in your question. I agree that the role of education in forming the right attitudes towards our close history remains key. The Bulgarian school is still responding to this need. In the course of the education under the history and civilization, the knowledge of the communist period is acquired in three separate classes in the VI, in the X and in the XI grade. In 2012, textbooks were processed precisely because of the need for objective and thorough presentation of the period. The problem so far is not the lack of problems in programs and textbooks, but in the smaller number of hours of history combined with the fact that this period is at the end of textbooks and there is not enough time left for it. It is important to note that the new Law and the new curriculum provide much more opportunities for a thorough study of the crimes of totalitarian regimes. The projects of new educational programs under the "History and civilization" have this problem again in three separate classes " VII, IX and X class." In the VII and X class, when Bulgarian history is studied entirely, the hours are increased. Thus, in the X class Bulgarian history will be studied not in 72 hours as it has been so far, but in 126 hours a year. This creates prerequisites not only for getting acquainted but also for an objective and thorough study of this period. To this I will also add the opportunities offered by civil education. In the first three stages it is implemented integrated, through a number of objects, among which, besides "History and civilization" and "Bulgarian Language and Literature" and "Philosophy" and so on. In the final stage, in XI and XII grade, as in a separate, separate study subject, these problems will again find a place. Additional opportunities for a thorough study of totalitarian regimes in the 20th century and their ideologies gives also the profiled preparation of the history and civilizations in the XI and XII grade, where separate elective modules can be defined. We should also bear in mind the provision of school autonomy in election and optional hours to bring objects and problems at their discretion. I'd like to point out one more moment here. According to the new educational law, teaching aids, which can be used to acquire expanded and additional training, are no longer subject to assessment and approval by the Minister of Education and Science. We therefore constantly stress how important the teacher's role is and what new responsibility we assign to him. This means that history teachers and other subjects can freely choose aids to help students understand and understand the period of communism in our history. The conclusion is that at the level of curricula and programs we have created the necessary conditions for the period of the communist regime to get its place and evaluation. I hope that by giving the students the necessary knowledge for this period, we will be able to build in them sustainability and proper attitude towards all humanist ideologies not only in the past, but also in our day. In addition, I have prepared a reference to you from which you can see how, in the framework of the history training in secondary schools, we are thoroughly and objectively studying the crimes of the communist regime directly to your question, literally class by class. I suppose this will be interesting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u242	Thank you for your reply, dear Minister. Mr. Stanimirov, line. You can get the reference. [[Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva submitted the reference to the MP Boris Stanimirov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u243	Madam Minister, thank you first for your value assessment of how important it is for the upbringing of people as full European citizens to know the crimes of communism, and that you share the opinion that not only in the history textbooks but also in the wider training of civil education should lay down information about totalitarian regimes. Since you often comment and do not fail to recall the upcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the European Union, I sincerely hope that, apart from the administrative capacity of Bulgaria at that time at 2018, it will show at last a mature European approach in the knowledge and attitude towards our recent past.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u244	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u245	It is not a duplicate, but because the issue is really important and requires a decision by the teachers, who, according to the new Law, have more responsibility and more opportunities, I would like to say something quite specific that there is no obstacle for a teacher of literature to present and discuss with his students "Forex reports" by Georgi Markov, who give information about the overall value attitude of the opposition to the Bulgarian regime during the 45-year communist period. It's the teacher's decision. I think that Bulgarian teachers are mature enough to be able to offer the children our rather traumatic history.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u246	Thank you. The next question to the Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Kuneva will be asked by Mariana Boyadjieva and is regarding the award and drafting of the regulations under the new Law on pre-school and school education through public procurement. Mrs. Boyadjieva, you have the floor to develop your question within 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to paragraph 31 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the New Pre-school and School Education Act, within one month of the entry into force of the Law, the relevant authorities shall issue or adopt the regulations laid down in the Law. Those acts shall include all regulations, strategies, plans and others. Most of them are issued or validated by the Minister of Education and Science or by the Council of Ministers also with an importer the Minister of Education and Science. Their preparation requires a serious administrative resource, given the short deadlines the Ministry must engage a large number of experts. That's what the practice has shown so far. In this regard, one of the options for the implementation of the Law is the award of the production of all these documents by means of a public procurement service. It is common administrative practice for public authorities, contracting entities and services which require serious legal and professional knowledge of the drafting of regulations to be awarded in this way through public procurement. In this sense, it is necessary to inform the public whether the Ministry of Education and Science has the necessary administrative capacity or will seek external specialised services. In order to comply with the Law, it is necessary, of course, to conduct a public procurement. The public must have information on whether these public funds for the preparation of documents will be spent in this way, what procedure will be allocated, how much and what funds will be spent on this line. If they are not awarded through public procurement, it is necessary to know whether the Ministry has the necessary administrative capacity. And my question to you is: is the Ministry of Education and Science planning to draw up regulations under the new Law on School and Pre-School Education through procurement under the Public Procurement Act? And if so, by what procedure and by what value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Madam Minister for Education and Science, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u249	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, I was just in your Committee on Education and Science, and I hope you will invite me back soon and I will inform you regularly. My short answer is: no, we do not intend to award through public procurement the drafting of the legal basis with which the Law, its operation is abundantly equipped. For example, I will give the nineteen standards. They are really adopted by regulations of the Minister of Education, some independently, others agreed with other ministries or the Council of Ministers. You know we've established three standards so far. I introduced you to the work that goes on all the others. Of course, and not only that. My first job at the Ministry was to gather the directors of Directorates and to make a very precise plan, which I have assigned to the Secretary-General and to the Deputy Minister for Sector "Preschool and School Education" Mr. Stamatov to follow and report to me every week. So far, I have not noticed in the two weeks when I have the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science that someone has deviated from the deadlines or not to draw up a specific number of hours, that the working groups meet on time. I've asked to know where and what time they're meeting. I take very personally the adoption of deadlines, perhaps because I am a lawyer and I know how important it is that a law be passed with all of its, so to speak, legal infrastructure. I don't think it's appropriate to look for outsiders in this case. The ministry isn't really with a small number of employees, and I think we need to deal with it. The idea that we maintain a relatively large administration plus taking out public procurement to prepare the essential work that the Ministry has to do seems to me that in this case it will not find support. If there is a change in plans, I will be more than aware that I must inform the Commission and all the rules will be followed. I repeat: so far we have no such plans and I believe that we will manage within the necessary time limits, even if it is at the cost of additional working hours, a reduction of leave and so on to the employees of the Ministry. National education is a national task. There is no right now, in my opinion, a more patriotic and more important task than to make our laws, which you have adopted here in this Chamber, to work for each of the degrees of education. I'm counting on your help and your control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u250	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. A line? Mrs. Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister. It is clear from your response that public procurement will not be used. However, I use the occasion that I have the opportunity to make a reply to say that, in fact, from an official answer that you made during the time when you were elected Minister of Education and Science, and which was published today in the press, it is understood that the authors of the announced new curricula for the V History and Literature class, as well as the projects under the same two subjects for the VI and VIII class, are precisely those people who have made the programs in the first GERB government and the office during the period of study. 2013 They have been paid for the work they have invested, with European money under an operational programme worth a total of 1 million. 200,000. BGN, with only for the educational package of over 450 separate documents, within this amount are given 900 thousand. lv. and in fact the rest of the funds are not spent because the teachers' training has been suspended. I say this because it is known that the programs in Bulgarian language and literature developed in 2012 and 2013, announced on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, after the outbreak of public discontent, were then removed from the site. Now the criticism of these programs you yourself know is also quite sharp. It is about programmes on which work was renewed in 2015. Therefore, I think that the Bulgarian society should know how these committees work, to have transparency and, as we have previously expressed our opinion from this high tribune, to attract famous Bulgarian scientists to really help solve this so important problem for both the Ministry and the Bulgarian society. Because the fact is that so far, a total of 554 external persons have been attracted to university lecturers and teachers to work on this. In this sense, we expect in the discussion that you are doing at the moment, with teachers throughout the country to have more information, including about the Bulgarian society as a whole, in order not to come to cases that we have seen in the last days and weeks, of discontent with the programmes that have already been developed and presented for public discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u252	Thanks for the line, Mrs. Boyadjieva. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u253	Mrs. Boyadjieva, this is about a culture of dialogue. Not everything you don't agree with has to go away. There's a discussion about programs. Once there is a discussion, it means that people can express different opinions. And the very fact that so many external specialists have been involved suggests that there has been an attempt before to open this discussion. That's what we're gonna keep doing now. Mr. Stamatov, my deputy minister, is from town to city. There is already Vratsa, there is Sliven, there is Veliko Tarnovo, and on Monday this discussion is in Sofia. It's wide, it's public. More public than that, we just can't do it. But if there is something on the pages of the Ministry that you don't agree with, as happened before, for which you refer, then there is dialogue and not a scandal to actually end the discussion. That's what I'm gonna try not to let go of from here on out. Anyone can say what they're thinking. Finally, as a society, we must make the best decision together. Building consensus is really something that, especially in education, can give the nation a way to unite. That's my deep conviction. You are invited, of course, as all colleagues, to each such discussion and to individual cities in the country. On Monday, we start at 10:00 p.m., he'll be at the NDK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u254	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the coat. There is a question for the honourable Minister Kuneva from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov concerning an active program for the return of Bulgarians from abroad. It is generally about all Bulgarians. Mr. Merdjanov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, there is no doubt that one of the most severe, painful issues before the Bulgarian society, before the Bulgarian state in the last 25 years are the demographic collapse and the problem with the flow of Bulgarian citizens abroad. During the official visit of Mr. Prime Minister Borisov on 3 and 4 February, an interesting meeting was held in the English capital, at which a number of questions were asked. Of course, I will not dwell on the issue of public procurement. One of the serious questions was what was being done to overcome the demographic crisis? You did not answer me how to bring the Bulgarians back to Bulgaria. Is there a program for the return of Bulgarians to Bulgaria? To the last question the Prime Minister answers: there is, of course. This response means that to date such a program is being implemented. Could you explain to us in more detail what this program is? What's her range? What resources are aimed at securing it? What are the results of her performance at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u256	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u257	Mr. Merdjanov, I suppose you are still asking me in my capacity as the deputy prime minister who oversees the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and Minister of Education and Science. These are my competences, I can talk about these matters. If you are willing to do something super this and to ask the Bulgarian Prime Minister, this is indeed a second step, as they say, a superpetum. The state agency for Bulgarians abroad and the Ministry of Education and Science is absolutely clear that this is a difficult issue. You're right. We're looking for a solution. These two institutions do the following: The State Agency for Bulgarians abroad organize labor exchanges for young Bulgarians, information campaigns among business circles, summer internships. The Agency implements initiatives and campaigns for the inclusion of Bulgarians on the ground and for the maintenance of the Bulgarian spirit. This can be called a program and it's there. What does the Ministry of Education and Science do? I am convinced that education can make the best policy for preserving the Bulgarian national identity. Living outside the homeland is a matter of personal choice, but it is important that we as politicians make every effort to preserve Bulgarian everywhere in the world. First, the Ministry of Education and Science has created conditions for education in Bulgarian language and literature, history, geography of Bulgaria through organizations of Bulgarians abroad, diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities. Secondly, the number of Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad and students trained in them is increasing. We have a National Program "Born language and culture abroad" because you ask me specifically about a program, and with the Order of the Council of Ministers for the Bulgarian Sunday schools abroad are provided funds for textbooks and aids, teachers' salaries, renting rooms and conducting training. In specific dimensions this means the following: 139 Sunday schools, over 20,000. Trained children, students and candidate students for the 2015 academic year 2016, more than BGN 33 million financial support from the Ministry of Education and Science in the period 2009 - 2015, two active Bulgarian state schools abroad in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which are financed by the Ministry of Education, 115 organizations of Bulgarians abroad, who receive funds for textbooks, teaching aids, lecturers, extracurricular activities for the preservation of Bulgarian culture, tradition and customs. Mr. Merdjanov, you understand that there is no way within the European Union, a Union of Open Borders, to stop people. I would be careful when we say how we will stop the Bulgarians especially the young. They must study, work outside, seek challenges outside their country. However, I believe that the most effective policy that we can lead to the return of our compatriots to our homeland, as generations of Bulgarians have done after the Liberation, is to create such conditions as to develop a modern economy, to have a fair judicial system, administration, service to citizens, quality education and health care. I have also spoken many times with our countrymen abroad and every young family who needs to decide where to raise their children, asks what education is and what health care is in the country, whether they will be able to get a fair life. This is a fulfillment of political responsibilities and I think it is the best program for returning Bulgarians from abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. It's possible you can answer in the back if you need to. Mr. Merdjanov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I am aware of the delicate situation in which you are going to justify yourself for the words and actions of the Prime Minister, who was told at this interesting meeting in London. It's more than clear that there's no such program. The Prime Minister has told an untruth. That's what our countrymen know abroad. I do not dispute everything that within the Ministry of Education and Science and in terms of your competences as Deputy Prime Minister, watching the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, is being done. It is necessary and mandatory. The big question is that there is no state policy for the return of Bulgarians abroad. This is not about stopping Bulgarian citizens. Yes, you are! After all, this was one of the advantages of the European Union. We've all worked hard enough, especially you. I must admit that initially my question was to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin, because Bulgarian citizens are leaving the country because of the lack of work and low pay, as they find in other Western European countries. I am pleased that you have noted the issues of health and education, but I would also like to remind you that just today a vote of mistrust has been voted on by your government in the field of health. You are equally responsible with all other Bulgarian governments without exception for what we have missed over the past 25 years. It's about time we didn't blur the situation, literally with lies, and what the Prime Minister said, we tried to run away from the problems. This will not be forgiven by our current or future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u260	Mr. Merdjanov, please, about the focus of your question. Your time is up anyway. Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u261	Mr. Merdjanov, I have taken the floor to make a duplicate of your speech with the desire to make sure that everyone makes a contribution. Perhaps, including in heated debates, such as there is for healthcare, for education, for growth, which you wanted to address to Mr. Kalfin, each makes his contribution so that the country can move faster. That's what we all want. But it's not just a question of teamwork, which I, of course, owe to the government that I work with, but also to some accuracy of the language. When we say........................... we do not only mean something that is a legal act adopted as a legal act. In fact, this is a government program. Yes, in the government program, in the goals we have set, perhaps this could also be a declaration of parliament if you decide at some point. Each of these measures can find its place. That's still gonna be called the "R" word. I don't think there's any dramatic inaccuracies. If this is about a legislative document that is referred to as a law document, I think it cannot be created because it is extremely diverse from jobs, as you rightly pointed out by going through education, the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which is actually the most directly involved with this. I think we need something else from unification when we think about how to make our country a better place to live. That's why it takes a united effort here. I am counting on both sides of the Chamber in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u262	And thank you, Madam Minister, for the accurate answers. That was the last question for you. I wish you a successful afternoon from now on. There is a series of questions to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. The first question is from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov on stopping the express. It's an emblematic express from our youth, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Elevator bell dings]] And that brings back a lot of romantic memories. You have the floor to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in fact, the question that I wanted to ask, the President has formulated it, but I will try to bring it up a bit. The first thing I would like to stress is that the question was asked at the end of December. Since then, we have most likely been looking for the answer to why express was stopped. Maybe today we found him and we'll get that answer. I assume that the express is what it is. There, even if there is a Chaika Express, by stopping at the station, people will not understand that it has stopped somewhere, but this should not be a reason for denying the possibility of people from a district city to be able to come to Sofia, to do their job and on the same day to return. The only relatively inexpensive transport they could do it with is this so-called fast train with reserved seats. Otherwise, now, either they have to leave very early in the morning and come home shortly after midnight, or stay overnight in Sofia, or go to Yambol, which is an additional cost. In this regard, perhaps the other reason is to encourage bus transport, because this is one of the ways in which this can be done, but let us not forget that railway transport is the most social and the state is socially obliged to be implemented so that people can have the right to an affordable, cheap and convenient transport. My question is: why was he stopped and what are the intentions regarding this express? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Minister Moskovski, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, in all of us there is nostalgia and good feelings of the train, the express. We hope to succeed in ensuring the sustainability of the railway sector in the country and that it brings us good experiences in the future. [[Radio.]] Fast trains with mandatory reservation are outside the contract for the operation of public transport services and carried out with them are determined by the company's commercial policy. Particularly for the trains 3601 and 3602: Expresses The reasons for the change in the period of movement of the two fast trains are mainly related to the modernization and rehabilitation of the railway road, which is carried out by the National Railway Infrastructure Company in several railway sections along their routes, namely: since the beginning of 2015 construction and rehabilitation activities have been carried out in the section of Cerkovski Carnobat Burgas under the project "Rehabilitation of sections of the railway infrastructure Plovdiv. As of 1 September 2015, a renovation between Klisura Stations and Hristo Danovo has started, which will last 270 days per project and is expected to be completed in May 2016. From April 2016 it is planned to start repairs between Stryama Stations and Klisura with a total duration of 180 days per project, of which for 60 days the movement will be completely interrupted. In areas where rehabilitation and modernisation are carried out, trains are moving at reduced speed and frequent and significant delays are made due to the untimely restoration of the movement by the contractors of the construction activities, which led to the deterioration of the offered service. In these circumstances, the number of customers using these trains decreased dramatically in 2015. On average, 122 passengers use the train from Sofia to Burgas, with only 23 of them travelling from starting to end station. By train from Burgas to Sofia on average daily travel 121 passengers, all the way from Burgas to Sofia the train is used by only 18 passengers. Due to the fact that at this stage we cannot provide a sufficiently accurate and correct service to our customers due to the construction activities in this direction, we are planning to introduce changes in the period of movement in 2016. Train 3601 will move on Friday or on the last working day when there is a series of holiday days, train 3602 will move on Saturday. To provide rail transport for passengers in the section between Sliven and Kazanlak will be extended the route of a morning passenger train from Burgas to Sliven, which will already travel to Kazanlak Station during the rest of the days when the fast trains do not move with mandatory reservation between Sofia and Burgas. Upon completion of the activities carried out by the National Railway Infrastructure Company, investment activities in the various railway sections will be restored the daily movement of fast and express trains with mandatory reservation between Sofia and Burgas, namely the express. And in addition for one second to say that the rehabilitation of Sliven Station is at stake in the capital investment intentions of the National Company Railway Infrastructure and I hope that this renovation will begin soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u266	Thank you, dear Minister. I see Mr. Ermenkov reacted positively to some of the information. You've got a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am happy to hear it, because otherwise, if there was not this concern, if there was not this promise, I hope that it will be fulfilled in terms of recovering this important for Sliven, and not only for Sliven, an important and solid train that allows citizens to travel from the respective city to Sofia and back within a day without spending extra money, without having to get up very early in the morning or return after midnight, it would show that you are only caring for 300. 400 people who are at the border at the moment, but the Ministry is trying to conduct a policy with which to protect the interests and about a hundred thousand inhabitants in the region. What you tell me about the station is a little extra to the point. Thank you. I hope indeed this year, if you manage to do so, on behalf of my Sliven voters and my Sliven voters, I will thank you for finally having in Sliven a train that will pass by the end of the year and a train station to stop at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u268	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. We continue with the next question to you, Minister Moskovski, and he is one of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov and is about removing unnecessary bureaucracy during the annual technical examinations and relief of citizens. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u269	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is extremely important that Bulgarian citizens directly understand and feel the benefits of introducing electronic government and electronic services. First of all, I'd like to appreciate the progress made, Mr. Minister. He's clear. In Sofia, if you are already doing a technical examination and your car is registered in Sofia Municipality, there is an electronic way to verify that you paid your tax over the Internet, for example, and not have to go to the municipality, where until recently you had to put a sticker, stamp and so on. I mean, I checked that progress, just like you promised us a previous question. It happened. But now, Mr. Minister, I would like to call on you to take the next step, the next step. This is well done, it is useful for the citizens of Sofia, but when a person whose car is registered in another municipality in Burgas, in Yambolsko, Plovdiv wants to pass the technical examination in Sofia, send him to take the paid tax on paper again with a sticker, again with a stamp, i.e. this practice, which complicates and hinders the rapid receipt of the service contradicts the idea of electronic government. It's clear to me that these things don't work in one day. I understand that this is a process, but, Mr. Moskovski, someone needs to coordinate the efforts and move municipalities to create a single database for the whole country, where there is no individual car taxes, because that is not necessary, but to have two sections: green and red. When a service across the country writes down the number of mine, of yours, of his car, to turn green or red whether the tax has been paid. So you can go to a technical check-up everywhere, pay your taxes over the Internet, whatever the future is, and not suffer unnecessary administrative complications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u270	If you please, the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u271	The specific question is: do you intend to coordinate the creation of such a National database on the Internet to be accessible to all workshops?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. [[Conversation between MP Martin Dimitrov and Minister Moskovski.]] Mr. Minister, please answer the stand. Mr. Dimitrov, let the fellow MPs and the public get an answer from the stand. Mr. Moskovsky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Dimitrov! My answer's a little longer, so I'm gonna have to ask you to wait a minute or two.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u274	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u275	The payment of a tax shall be subject to regularity in the annual technical examination of the vehicle pursuant to art. 60, para. 6 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and is certified by a document issued or certified by the municipality. In order to comply with the condition of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees under art. 30, para. 1, t. 4 of Regulation No H-32 in the technical examination of the road vehicle, the person providing the vehicle for periodic examination shall provide a document of paid vehicle tax. Pursuant to the Ordinance on Technical Reviews of the Executive Agency, the Authority is obliged to provide technical means for the operation of the information system for electronic recording of periodic vehicle reviews carried out. For example, for electronic recording of the data from technical examinations carried out, providing them in real time to the Executive Agency, the Automobile Administration and customization of technical service certificates, reporting of documents in relation to the reviews and preservation of graphic images for vehicle identification. In order to raise tax collection in 2012 at the initiative of Sofia Municipality, the development of a programme product for connection with the electronic system for recording the periodic reviews carried out on road vehicles with the local taxes and fees database of Sofia Municipality started. After taking into account the positive effect of this joint project, at the request of the National Association of Municipalities, the construction of an integrated platform for the automatic verification of the tax liability on vehicles during periodic vehicle inspections began. By fulfilling this obligation, the Ministry of Transport, through the Executive Agency, has created the possibility for an integrated platform for the automatic verification of vehicles' taxable persons when carrying out their periodic inspections to the information system for electronic registration of primary vehicle reviews to be built. Through this platform, all control stations have access to the local taxes and fees database of all municipalities in the country and, in carrying out a periodic inspection of the vehicle performance, it is intended to carry out an automatic verification in the municipality database for the existence of paid vehicle tax. Where an automatic verification of the information system does not confirm that a vehicle tax is not due, it shall not allow the review to be extended. It can only be extended after the provision of a document issued or certified by the municipality under the Local Taxes and Fees Act. The documents issued by the municipalities concerning the payment of the tax must be marked or marked for unique identification by the information system using a sticker. Each document is thus marked to identify it from the information system. Where an automatic verification confirms that no vehicle tax is due and the system allows the review to be continued, the President of the Commission shall not require the submission of a document under art. 30, para. 1, t. 4 of Decree No H-32. Municipalities shall not be obliged to purchase stickers for the unique identification of the paid vehicle tax document if normal data transmission from the municipality database can be ensured to the Information System of the Executive Agency. Given our desire to create the convenience of the citizens and to stimulate the electronic services and in relation to the various possibilities for paying the tax on vehicles in different municipalities, a decision of the municipality is in what way to ensure the introduction of information about received through banks and companies with which the municipality has concluded contracts, paid tax obligations on vehicles and the database of the municipality concerned. This condition will ensure that an automatic verification of the vehicle's paid tax is carried out in the course of the periodic examination of its performance, irrespective of the place of payment of the tax obligation and the place of passage of the periodic review. With effect from 18 January 2016, an automatic verification of the existence of a vehicle tax due to all municipalities in the country has started. In addition, the National Association of Municipalities was informed by letter dated 31 March 2016. The tax payment document should be identified or marked for unique identification through the information system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u276	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I really have left you a little longer since information is important. Mr. Slavov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to clarify in the backrest, as I heard from you that such an automatic information system has been built, but I have not been able to find out if it is functioning throughout the country? The information I have is that it works only on the territory of Sofia Municipality, Sofia. That is, if on the territory of Sofia Municipality we have a good precedent that already works well, it will obviously be much easier to transfer this to the other municipalities to borrow this experience and introduce it to them. I think this is your desire, and the meaning of the whole exercise to ease people, especially in the case of a car registered in another municipality. This is related to very serious complications, if you have to take a paper document from this municipality that the tax is paid. The other important thing that I ask you also to specify is this information system reflecting payment when it is made by bank transfer or one of the remote payment systems and not on site in the municipality concerned? This is also the other great sense to save walking and bureaucracy. Another recommendation, if I may. It seems to me that it would be a good thing, what my colleague Dimitrov said, if people could freely check on the Internet, not, of course, the availability or the amounts due, but whether the system is that the tax is paid for a vehicle or not. Then they would know before going to the service, whether they should not be supplied with a paper document from the respective municipality and not to go to the service first, to return them, then to the municipality and then to the service again, and in advance they would be able to react and be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Moskovski, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Backwards, I absolutely support and I believe that it is a very good idea to have an Internet platform where this can be checked. However, I doubt that colleagues from the National Revenue Agency will agree to provide access. Of course, what we've said can be restricted to access without personal data inside, so I'm okay. I mean, whatever depends on us, we could help with that process. The platform exists, it works. Difficulties are created on two levels. First of all, one is because of the different method of payment, not always affects payments. And the second problem is that municipalities, I suppose, with an accumulation of time, will get used to and will be able to fill out their database correctly and in time. In practice, it is very common that the tax has been paid and that the database has not yet been introduced by the municipality itself. Our system is looking for him in the city's database, and he doesn't find him, and eventually the guy paid his tax. Otherwise, there is a normal communication and a platform on which it is possible, no matter where the person is registered, to pay in one place and to carry out the examination at the relevant technical point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u280	Thank you, Mr. Moskovsky. There is a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov concerning the temporary suspension of trains in the section between the Berkovitsa and Montana stations. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, on 13 January, my colleague Emil Raynov and I asked a question concerning the temporary suspension of trains in the section between the Berkovitsa Stations and Montana. Today is February 19th, and I am surprised again to ask the question again, what is the current deadline for replying? I always think it's not a month and a half, but it should be within seven days. Therefore, in the future, a request to you and to the Board of the Assembly when there are really current questions, because you will probably answer me that the train is already on, to answer when the time is right. On 5 January, on the official page of the BDZ, an announcement was published, the last paragraph of which stated that BDZ was forced to take a final measure, which called for a temporary suspension of the movement of trains in the section between the Berkovica and Montana Stations. According to the publication, the reason for this is that in the period 28 December 2 January 8 cases of assault of trains with stones were recorded in the section between the Berkovitsa and Montana Stations, resulting in several side and one front glass being broken on some of the passenger formations moving in the area. This has resulted in material damage to BDZ. The transport of citizens is carried out by buses. The carrier's message does not mention how long the traffic has been stopped or how long the trains will not move. In the news site, the public is informed that the train between Berkovica and Montana has been stopped since January 3rd. In this regard, Minister, are our questions to you: in the last one year how many train routes have been found attacking trains with stones? In the last year, how many routes have the trains been stopped due to a stone attack? What are the real reasons for the temporary suspension of the trains between the Berkovitsa and Montana stations, and why didn't you seek assistance from the Ministry of Interior? Is the suspension of trains between the Berkovitsa and Montana stations prior to the closure of the Berkovitsa railway line, Montana? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u282	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Minister Moskovski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilensky! I don't see Mr. Raynov. On 22 December 2016, train No 71223 left Montana Forest for Berkovitsa Station. On exiting Montana Station at a speed of up to 51 km per hour, the train driver notices an elderly woman. The driver gives a continuous sound signal with the train signal and takes an extreme hold, but due to the short distance follows the impact and the train stops at kilometer 14+354 at 14.22 pm. The station chief reports what happened on the wire. 112. Emergency medical assistance was called immediately and the victim was taken to the hospital. Despite the medical measures taken, he later died in the hospital. The deceased woman lived in the area of the accident, where the buildings are located next to the track road, almost in the waitout of the railway infrastructure. The danger to the lives of other citizens and children in the area is great, although our inspections find that these buildings are illegal. On 28 December 2015, a group of unknown persons in the Berkovitsa inter-garage "Montana" quarter "Ogosta" district threw stones at train No 71224. For the case by wire. 112 authorities of the Ministry of Interior have been notified immediately. After that notification, we've examined them. Every day from 2 January 2016 the passing trains were stoned. The main damage that has been done is several dozen broken glass units on motor trains, including the life-threatening train driver. This led to a significant increase in the risk to the life and health of travelers and employees in BDZ Motor Brigades. For this reason, the train had to be temporarily stopped. For 2015 we have recorded 64 cases of stone throwing by rolling railway composition, on which there are broken glass and material damage of total value 60 983 BGN. No citizens or employees of BDZ were injured. No complaints or complaints from other citizens. There have been pre-trial proceedings for minor hooliganism in cases. As a result of the analysis and interaction with the Ministry of Interior, the gendarmerie has strengthened its presence in established risk zones. The Bulgarian state railways are in daily contact with the Ministry of Interior and the other state authorities in fulfilling their public commitment to managing these types of situations. New measures are to be developed in relation to the strategy approved in 2015 to counter radicalisation in this type of crime and violations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u284	Thank you, Minister Moskovski. Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you have replied to me that in the last year there have been 64 cases of damages for 60 thousand. lv. And there's no other train stopped for that reason. This once again reinforces the concerns of the residents of the region that the attack on the train with stones is only a reason to stop this train and not the real reason for closing this line. I hope you can disprove me. Because, Minister, if there are 64 other cases where trains are not stopped, why did you decide to stop? The work of the state and the Ministry of Interior is to ensure the safety and security of both citizens and rail transport. In this regard, I think stopping is not the right measure. Because you said the damage to other trains was 60,000. BGN, I take the opportunity to remind you to check whether the insurance contract with which the trains were insured was changed only if they were in a depot? In other words, the damage that is being done during the movement of the stones attacks does BDZ pay them again? And if this is not done, why hasn't the BDZ management taken insurance measures on these trains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u286	It's like the Wild West.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u287	Thank you. Minister Moskovski, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u288	Mr. Svilensky, you're not supposed to stop this line. We rely on the efforts of our colleagues from the Ministry of Interior, but not only on them. There's a district manager and a mayor there. In our inspection, we found that these are buildings where people live permanently, in our opinion, illegally. In some places they enter the rail infrastructure waitout. I promised to check what you asked me last. I don't think the insurance contract covers that kind of damage. I'll let you know further.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u289	Thank you, Minister Moskovski. There are two questions for you by two MPs who are united for a common answer, as they refer to the same topic. The first question is from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov concerning the refusal to build a railway line Vidin. The second question is from the MPs Vili Lilkov and Petar Slavov on the modernization of the railway line Vidin Sofia and applying for funding under the Connecting Europe Facility. Mr. Popov, you can ask your question within two minutes, after which Mr. Lilkov
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The construction of the railway line and its modernization in the direction Sofia "Vidin" is of extreme strategic importance not only for Bulgaria, not only for the region, but also for the whole of Europe, especially after the construction of the Danube Bridge at the town of Vidin. The National Railway Infrastructure Company has already invested 10 million. lv. public funds, I repeat, public funds through the award of public contracts for update, preliminary project and preparation of the construction of the railway section Vidin Medkovets. This happened, on the one hand, on the other hand "this project has already been stopped, you put a cross on it. Dear Minister, your government also put the cross on the road Sofia "Vidin," which was included as a priority in the Operational Program "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" 2014 "2020," you put the cross and the customs in Vidin, you put the cross on the Chemistry and the people there, together with their families are already on the street. Otherwise, crocodile tears for the Northwest. Write strategies that, however, never find their fulfillment. Or here you take advantage of the maxim by not wanting anything to happen, making working groups and strategies. There is certainly a strategy for the Northwest, but it is not for the development of the Northwest. It is more about announcing the Northwestern reserve for the reserve, showing the achievements of your destructive policy towards this region. Let me remind you again, and this region is ultimately part of Bulgaria. Here comes our clear question to you, which we want an answer not only as MPs from Vidin but also the people from all over the Northwest: what are the reasons for the refusal during the current programming period of the construction of the speed train Vidin Medkovets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u291	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Lilkov, let's hear your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question, quite briefly, is actually: why the Bulgarian government does not apply for funding of 405 million. EUR for modernization of the railway line Sofia Last year, exactly one year ago, to a question of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov you, Mr. Moskovski, replied that this project is being worked and Bulgaria will apply. In July 2015, a question from the MP asked to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev was answered that this is a priority and that it will be applied. Why, Minister, when more than 20 years have been working on this railway corridor and not only Vidin The latest analyses show that even the pessimistic version and the pessimistic scenario by 2021 shows an increase in the loads and flows under it. What happened, Minister, that you gave up your election promises, on which you built your entire election campaign in Vidin, namely modernization of the railway line Vidin Medkovets, the speedy road Vidin Botevgrad? Not to mention the Intermodal terminal you promised a few months ago, and nothing happens, not to talk about the airport that's sold, but that's a topic for another conversation. What happened, Mr. Moskovski, that you gave up all those priorities that were spent not 10 million but 12 million. $800,000. lv. for design, colleague Popov? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u293	General answer to the two questions - six minutes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u294	Thank you, Madam President. By the way, congratulations on the DSB and BSP in Vidin together! Not bad. For the town of Vidin, it is good to have DSB with BSP to help each other. By the way, Mr. Lilkov, to answer your question. I guess the people in Vidin voted for me out of gratitude for Danube Bridge 2. I never let myself lie to the voters. Mr. Popov, I can answer you with the slight aggression with which you asked the question, but I will not. The modernization of the railway line Vidin "Sofia" is an element of which the section Vidin "Medkovets" is part of the previously identified projects included in the Partnership Agreement of Bulgaria with the European Union as well as of the projects previously identified in Annex I of Regulation (EU) No 1316/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a mechanism for connecting Europe. His preparation took place for several years. The National Company was granted 11 million grant for railway infrastructure. 630,000. £420. The railway sector has been established and subsequently updated as well as a technical project for the railway section. Parallel is prepared and analyzed costs and benefits with the necessary applications. What should be borne in mind is that we should not talk about dropping the project and we did not put a cross on it. The possibility to provide European funding for the project and its delay in time is mainly due to two key reasons. Firstly, the European Union is financing on a competitive principle, which is very important to understand it on a competitive principle, as a priority and projects under the Connecting Europe Facility in the Transport Sector, which meet certain requirements for economic efficiency across Europe, not only in Bulgaria. In other words, this project competes with similar projects across Europe. The preliminary analyses carried out in the cost-benefit analysis or the so-called Cost-benefit Analysis. Based on the preliminary estimates from the pre-project studies, it is clear that the total investment value of the project in the entire Vidin area of Sofia is 2.5 billion. EUR, although we have repeatedly commissioned to make a reduction in its value, which means also reducing the parameters, and we have asked for an exception for this project. The special section of Vidin Medkovets, which we are commenting on at the moment, is not as you said, Mr. Lilkov, 405 million, but 375 million. Euros. Four hundred and six million was the reserve value on the axis, which significantly exceeds the financial resources of the Cohesion Fund in the package of the Connecting Europe Facility in the sector. In order to complete the sections of the corridors that we have started and if we do not finish them in the southern direction in the direction of Sofia, we will have to return probably because there we reserved a certain budget, the one we have left is 264 thousand. 827, which is significantly less than 375 and is currently unable to satisfy this budget. The modernization of the entire Vidin "Sofia," as I said, has an extremely high and high value. Euros. Imagine 5 billion. lv. At what point, when and how they can be secured. At this time, at least I do not see where we can find such funding, and it would probably be difficult to realise. In this situation, the appropriate decision we have taken is to submit to finance projects that meet the requirements for economic efficiency and complement other investments in the sector. With regard to Vidin "Sofia" and its preparation, it should continue by identifying financially the most acceptable option, that is, we should try to reduce its value. Once again, when we reduce it, then its profitability ratio will not correspond, and we will have to ask for an exception from this project. Moreover, throughout the corridor after Calafat in the direction of Hungary, I have to tell you that Romanians have not even electrified their part. So let's leave two pieces unbuilt, let's start Vidin Sofia, upstairs and from Svilengrad to September, it doesn't seem logical, and it's not appropriate. My answer is that it is good that the project is finally completed as a technical option. In my opinion, the working mechanism is jointly, mainly with the Romanian side, to seek an exception and targeted funding from Europe in order to implement this entire corridor. Otherwise, alone as a country... If any of you claim to be able to find 5 billion. BGN, I'm literally saying right now that at the very least he's delusional.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u295	Replices in the same order.. Mr. Mikov, after which Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, it was nice to tell these things to Vidin citizens when elections took place a year ago. I don't see any aggression in calling things by their real names. Romania envisions financing of the Krajova line "Calafat" and with this policy of the Bulgarian government "Supreme of the North-West" policy. Your colleague Pavlova is stopping the road, you are stopping the modernization of Vidin Medkovets. Obviously, the Bulgarian government is working to develop Corridor No. 10 and not Corridor No. 4. I'm even ignoring the fact of what state the Northwest is in. You were just asked: why was the train stopped from Montana to Berkovitsa? The picture in the Northwest is getting closer and closer to America and the wild west of the IXx century. Soon I won't be surprised if the slow trains, which you simulate with such a policy, start racing horsemen around them and robbing them on the move. This is practically happening and there is no aggression in it. It's reality itself! What's the truth? Of the money that should have been allocated and started work on Vidin Medkovets, you have not considered that there is at least some need. How can there be railway transport and cost-effective if there is no railway and there are no modern conditions for railway transport? The tunnels of Dimovo and the other stories you know. How can there be? How can Thessaloniki contact Europe? Now what do you make carriers do to enter Captain Andreevo's Europe, to go out to Kalotina from Europe, up to Novi Sad to enter Europe again?! That is why Europe is connected by going down to the centre of Europe. But we are not working for the Bulgarian interest, i.e. the route, which will give the most flow along Bulgarian territory, but we are working to guide the railway transport along Corridor No. 10 and the bridge, as we used to talk about, can also catch fish from it. How can there be transport on this bridge if there is no railway?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u297	Mr. Lilkov, you have two minutes for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u298	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Moskovski, honourable Members, a few words on your answer. First, in 2007, the cost of this project was estimated at 2,5 billion. EUR on unbuilt Danube Bridge 2 Then, regardless of the high price and despite the fact that the bridge was not built, its economic efficiency was positive. However, regardless of this, it was necessary to re-evaluate the value and the Union of CSS-22. This re-evaluated and here I make the first correction. The value of this project is currently estimated at 1.2 billion. Euros. That is, you, for the third time, in the Transport Commission, and twice today, say: "Twice higher value, which does not correspond to the truth. The second untruth that you said, namely that Romania will not modernise the Calafat line "Creaiova." I will give you a sample of a statement from the Minister of Transport of Romania, made a few days ago, that it is Romania that will electrify this section of its railway network.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u299	When, when?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u300	And there's one more thing I have to tell you. Currently, Greece is preparing for this particular route by preparing its railway network and breaking through Thermopiles for speeds up to 250 km per hour. Do not mislead Bulgarian citizens that this corridor is ineffective for Bulgaria. I insist quite responsibly that the refusal to apply for the financing of modernisation of this route, namely Vidin...................... is a refusal of national interest. He will transfer major traffic from Greece through Macedonia and Serbia. Nish will become this railway hut in the Balkans, not Sofia and Bulgaria will lose to your wrong policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u301	Hole, Minister, four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u302	Now I'm gonna do a little posting myself. Tell my Romanian colleague that we will work along this corridor and so on. Give me numbers, tell me when, with what money, how long, how will they do it? They haven't even electrified it, what modernization are we talking about? It is understandable to say that if a train comes from Hungary, it should change and go on a diesel locomotive to cross Romania, then take an electric one here in Bulgaria, and go down because ours is electrified. When? Tell the Romanian colleague we'll work on it too. About the value. You don't understand me correctly. This project as a corridor is cost-effective. It's not the cost-effective value that was at stake. Personally, I've commissioned to look for options to reduce the project's value to not 1.2 billion, but 1.8 billion, or at least what I've been given. In order to come to this, it means that it needs to reduce its design speed and go in most of its way on an old route, where there is only rehabilitation. However, the Methodology, which determines whether or not a percentage is effective, gives a final result of a single SBI coefficient, the so-called Cos-Benefitic analysis, is the same in the European Union. It assesses railway projects according to a methodology, does not apply a different methodology. In this methodology, when we lower the project speed, when we bring down other parameters, then the coefficient comes out of a project that would lose if it competes with similar projects in the territory of the rest of Europe, and this is what it will do under this financial instrument, which will compete with similar projects. What are we really doing, what are you making me risk? To bet a project that will have a low efficiency ratio will be weak to compete with similar ones; to bet the entire budget on this financial instrument for a single section, not the whole direction, just for Sofia. Everything else will remain in the hypothesis that it will ever be built; the Romanians do not know when they will electrify, not to mention when they will modernise and keep from September to Elin Pelin, Sofia and Dragoman nothing to do because there we will spend all the resources and leave holes in the state and not a single built-up entire corridor. What is the right thing to do to build at least one entire corridor to have or to make pieces across the country with sections where we are not even sure that they will approve them, as they will compete with other projects? I have made this decision and I think it is right. Otherwise, I'll never deny it, and I'll insist... Once again, through the theme "Exhibitions" in Brussels, it would be logical to talk "Northwest," the Romanian part to separate a target resource to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u303	Next is Mr. Slavcho Atanasov's question about designing and building a pedestrian underpass on Street. "Elyn Pelin" in the district of Proslav "St. Plovdiv, 150 + 950 at the train station of Proslav.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u304	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva! Dear Minister, I would like to introduce you to this question and I hope to make you empathetic with a problem that has escalated for months and has been harassing over 8,000 residents of the district of Proslav. It is about a built cross-roading facility at Proslav Station, ul. Elin Pelin. Where's the problem? Elin Pelin and the railway line are located in the middle of the district of Proslav and are practically dividing it into two parts. National Enterprise National Company "Railway Infrastructure" is building a passer-rail for crossing the railway. With today's date the facility in question has been built, but the people in the district of Proslavs find it extremely dysfunctional, inconvenient and inconvenient for their needs for safe and easy way of moving to their important sites in the neighborhood. For this reason, they have also formed a Public Council to represent them officially. The dissatisfaction of the residents of Proslav is extremely high and because of the fact that the municipality of Plovdiv has in no way informed them of the intention to design and build the pasarel in question or what its technical parameters are. The public discussion was clearly disclosed not according to the form, but proforma, as no resident of the district "Proslav" has learned about it and it was not possible to attend. The people of the neighborhood did not have the opportunity to express to the administration their desire to have a pedestrian underpass in the place in question, not a pasarel. According to the representatives of the Public Council, with whom I met on the spot, the pastel and the elevators built to it are not comfortable and suitable for disabled people with manual or motorized carriages, as well as for mothers with carts. Along with this, one of the exits of the pasareel goes literally on the road sail without any available restraint, which is generally unacceptable. Dear Minister, my question to you is this: how will you engage as Minister and your subordinate office in order to find an adequate solution to the created problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u305	For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u306	Madam President! Dear Mr. Atanasov, Project "Modernization of the railway section September" Plovdiv is part of the project "Modernization of the railway line Sofia "Plovdiv" which is included in the list of the project "Operational program "Transport" under Priority axis 1. By Decision No 509 of 8 July 2011, the Council of Ministers in the Sofia Railway Modernization Project was designated as an object of national importance. In the coordination of the technical project under heading 3 "Modernization of the railway section Stamboliyski Plovdiv" with Protocol No 2 of 12 February 2013, specialized Expert Council on a structure on the territory of Plovdiv Municipality adopted the project with remarks and prescriptions concerning the need to design and build part of an underpass between Tsarevets Street and the Street "Moder" under the railway line of kilometre 153+293 and the design and construction of a pedestrian crossing of two levels of According to the general urban plan of the municipality of Plovdiv, the underpass below the railway line is intended to make a direct connection between the districts This project is a priority transport and communication site and the road connection is included in the common planning plan of the city of Plovdiv. It is estimated that the construction of this part of the underpass, which falls under the railway line and the construction of a pedestrian crossing on two levels of the street..Elin Pelin.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The scope of the project includes the construction of a pasarelka with elevators on the street of Elin Pelin, the district of Proslav, a pasarel without elevators on the street.Moder, and Tsarevets. Part of an underpass in the town of Plovdiv when crossing the railway line with the street of Moder, and Tsarevets. The technical project was presented for coordination by the Municipality of Plovdiv and by Decision of Protocol No 1 of 11 February 2014. ECSUT gave a positive opinion and the project was agreed without comments. State-owned company "National Company" "Railway Infrastructure" in accordance with the requirements of art. 4, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental impact assessment sent on 30 May 2014 to the Municipality of Plovdiv a notification of an investment proposal with an advert to inform the affected population of the municipality. For the implementation of this project, a construction permit No 220 was granted on 17 September 2014, for which according to art. In accordance with Article 149 of the ECT, reliable communication has been made as within the time limit laid down in Article 149 of the ECT. 149, para. No complaints have been received in accordance with Article 3. 216, para. 3 of ZUT through the municipality of Plovdiv under the RDNC. The safety and reliability requirements for normal rail operation and the regulatory requirements for the removal of crossings on a single level are complied with in the implementation of the pedestrian crossing. The project complies with the requirements of Ordinance No 4 of 2009 on the design, implementation and maintenance of the construction in accordance with the requirements for an accessible environment of the population, including for disabled and disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u307	The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u308	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, the project "Moder" is really extremely important, a gesture for the city of Plovdiv, but it has nothing to do with this problem that the residents of the district of Proslav. These are nearly 8,000 people. You explained things well for Mr. Tsarvets. Another point is that 14,5 million were secured there. lv. plus a completely ready project, after which the new management came to me and decided that this project is not so important for Plovdiv and threw the money in other guidelines, but this is not the main issue that concerns me and you at the moment. I'll explain why. My personal offer, Mr. Minister. You are, of course, quite committed, but my personal proposal, if you accept it, is: make a common neighborhood meeting in the presence of representatives of people from your Ministry and respectively of the present municipality of Plovdiv, because, do not think of it as some apocalyptic option, but my opinion is that there things will escalate more and more. Indeed, the pastel is extremely inconvenient, it is not functional and in practice now, as this is a high-speed line, when it closes and access to the passage as it now passes through the railway lines through some enclosures, there will really become serious problems. I'm telling you straight, this neighborhood is about to go civil insubordination. Why am I telling you this? Because in the literal sense of the word, the line goes through the middle of the neighborhood. On one side are hospital, school, veterinary services and so on and this crossing the line is extremely important. Once as mayor, with your predecessor, I asked that question, but the idea was to build an underpass. There are typical projects in the Ministry and it won't be worth that much, I'm sure of it. However, the truth is that there will be a serious problem for us all. Here in no case should we separate who is from GERB, who is from the Patriotic Front, who is from BSP and so on. This problem concerns the residents of the neighborhood very seriously. During the conversation with them, I do not know what Plovdiv municipality was doing, but I am telling you that none of the residents of the neighborhood knew about such a general discussion in order to agree to the Pasarelka. Thank you. And one congratulations "Stickly and promptly answered my question, although I was not really fully satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u309	A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. Last question to you by Mr. Mihail Mikov and Philip Popov about Vidin Airport. Mr. Popov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u310	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Maybe I'll apologize in advance for the pathos I'm talking to, but that's how I'll always talk when it comes to Vidin and the development of Vidin, because I was born and raised in this region. I'm very interested in his development. With regard to road transport, we understand there will be no obvious highway Sofia "Vidin." With regard to railway transport, we understood.. Obviously and there ended things. We are interested in what your plans for the development of Vidin Airport. I'm saying this because you, in your election campaign, were a candidate from Vidin District for the National Assembly. Everywhere you said that one of the priorities, along with infrastructure and transport development, was Vidin Airport. However, we now understand that we have also argued this thing, but obviously our understanding of the development of Vidin Airport is deeply different from yours. And yours are this airport to sell at a priceless price in practice. There is an order from the district governor, the motives are based on your orders, the Minister of Transport, on a number of decisions. It's a 12,000-dollar terrain. square meters including headquarters, dining room, kitchen, garage, warehouses, was sold at a price of 162 thousand. lv. Or that's about BGN 13.50. squared. It's a humiliating price. Perhaps this is your understanding of the development of the airport. Therefore, I would like to ask you what your plans are how will the airport in Vidin develop from here on out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u311	For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u312	Madam President, dear Mr. Popov! And the honorable Mr. Mikov is from Vidin, but more calmly speaking, not as excited as you are. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology Communications does not manage Vidin Airport. Our studies show that the properties forming the former airport Vidin are managed by the district governor of Vidin district. According to the information available to me, a State-owned act 2483 of 15 December 2007 was drawn up for these properties, which was corrected by a State-owned act 2587 of 11 September 2008 with a total area of 153841 sq. m. In this regard, the initiative to restore the activities of the former Vidin Airport should be from the state or municipal authorities currently managing the properties forming the former airport. In assessing an initiative expressed by their country, the Ministry, through the Directorate General, will provide the necessary assistance as a regulatory authority in the field of civil aviation. You are probably referring, however, to some property which was the subject of sale and was part of the assets of a state-owned company Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u313	This is the airport.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u314	It's a property that borders on the properties that make up the former airport. I didn't do the sale. I can't answer your question. I don't know who made the sale there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u315	The line is made up of Mr. Mikov, so that the minister can then exercise his right to do the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u316	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the work smells more and more of a prosecutor after your claim that you didn't do it. Because these buildings, which are essentially the airport, were sold with two orders and the procedure was opened. One was at the time when the Minister of Transport was your colleague Angelkova and the second was at your time. On 26 November 2014, I think. See Order No RT-35 of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, a procedure for the sale of the above-mentioned property is opened. Then the accomplice in this work supplied the district manager Momchil Stankov, has sold. And, notice, it's about the buildings that are near the track! Even the headquarters is a room used for headquarters because there are military functions every airport, and the headquarters is sold! And the warehouses! The tower wasn't sold so the buyer wouldn't be burdened, obviously. Four acres of built-up buildings built between 1985 and 1989, four acres and twelve acres of land were sold for 162 thousand. lv.! Four acres to the airport, near the runway! So I thank you for your answer. I believe you have nothing to do with this job, but we need to see the D.A. handle it. Moreover, this is an invisible result that becomes visible to what is happening. And that was at the time when we all wanted to plan for development. It's still on the district government's invitation to concession and to look for a client for this airport. At the same time, the buildings at the airport are sold! So, which concessionaire is coming?! So thank you for your answer and together to investigate the case, because the job is very gangbanging. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u317	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u318	I'll do a full background check on the part that concerns me. What concerns colleague Angelkova...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u319	That's where we'll check it out!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u320	I don't mind at all, even if it's necessary to refer to the prosecution, I'll do it myself. I'm actually hearing from you about the sale of these properties. This reference they gave me is that they're not part of the airport, they're neighboring properties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u321	They're not on the track!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u322	All right, I'll take it. I'll do a full background check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u323	Thank you, Mr. Moskovski, for your participation in this parliamentary control. We move on to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova's responses to the Minister of Energy. First will ask her a question MP Martin Dimitrov about the financial situation of NEK after the measures taken to reduce losses.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u324	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! During In 2014 NEK's tariff deficit was significant. Different estimates we can talk about amounts of between 500 and 600 million. BGN, therefore measures were taken to stabilise the company, including with our support, the support of the Ministry of Energy, the Energy Commission. These measures of their nature covered almost all the energy, included closing the door for new RESs. The most difficult decision was made in terms of biomass from manure, but even there was a correct decision. Purchase only of high-efficiency production in respect of plant plants and power plants, introduction of a tax on all electricity producers. It's a long list, I'm not going to run it out of these examples. Now the important thing is to evaluate the outcome. According to various data, Madam Minister, there are good rumors about the financial performance of NEK for the months of October, November and December for 2015. But I have asked you the question to have official data to know what specific financial results have led to by the end of 2015 and whether the main objective has been achieved. The main objective that, as a parliamentary committee, we have set ourselves is to try to make the possible state NEK of loss companies with a tariff deficit gradually move on to profit. Many people said that this could not be achieved. It is therefore important that we now assess the result and effect and assess whether further measures are needed from now on to restore the National Electricity Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u325	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u326	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dimitrov!? The subject you are putting is extremely important. Indeed, we all united efforts last year and the Bulgarian Parliament, and the Ministry of Energy, colleagues from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, all who we care about for Bulgarian energy, really united our efforts and made several very important changes to the Energy Act, both from March 2015 and July 2015. Many of these measures you mentioned in your presentation, I will not repeat them.. They are really very serious and very radical measures in a particular direction. You neglected only to say, to mention the July measure for the creation of the Security Fund to the demand system, which has proved to be really very successful as an option and as an option. Indeed, it is now time to see what has actually come about as a result of the efforts of all interested parties in this process. First of all, I can say this. As you have mentioned, the NEK's result, the National Electricity Company, annually, generated a loss or deficit that was close to 600 million. Thus, for 2015 this deficit was 586 million.. the loss of the National Electricity Company and the results as of 31 December 2015 show that the loss in the National Electricity Company was reduced and it was 221 million. lv. In other words, we were able to shrink the deficit by 365 million within a year. BGN, which, I think, is a good indicator for the recovery of the National Electricity Company. There is an increase in revenue by 188 million. lv. in 2015, or the increase is 6%. We managed to achieve a cost reduction of 179 million or nearly 5%. There is a tendency to increase the collection rate of the claims of the National Electricity Company and to reduce the debt, something that is extremely important as an indicator. NEK's debt decreased by nearly 5%, or that's a little more than 200 million. lv. Within the year, NEK's debt has decreased by so much. In addition, the National Electricity Company optimizes its administrative costs BGN, compared to the approved business plan, which represents more than 20% of the planned. Staff were also optimized, reduced by 120 people. It should also be noted something else that is extremely important for the first time, perhaps in the last 5 or 6 years, the National Electricity Company has managed to realise a positive financial result of its regulatory activity. In order for this to happen, in addition to the measures we have taken, as well as the legislative changes and reforms in the sector, the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation of 1 August 2015 has also been put forward, which has indeed, in a new way, identified the picture in the sector. Thanks to this Commission decision on energy and water regulation, thanks to all these measures we have succeeded, NEK managed to realise a positive financial result from its regulatory activity. Now directly to your question relating to what NEK's financial results are in the months of October, November and December, i.e. in the fourth quarter of 2015. I can communicate the following information. This is currently because these are nevertheless preliminary reporting data, as the deadline for the submission of the Annual Financial Statement should. The financial result of NEK for the fourth quarter of 2015 is a profit of 89 million. 599 thousand. lv. In conclusion, I would like to confirm the desire, ambition and will of the Ministry of Energy and of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and of the National Electricity Company to work towards minimizing the costs, restoring the National Electricity Company and making it really one of the Stojeers of Bulgarian Energy, as it should be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u327	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u328	Dear Minister, when many people claimed that the loss of NEK is so great that the sinking is secure and nothing can be done, it is seen from the results and from the facts which you have confirmed, I had unofficial before that NEK for the fourth quarter of 2015 has 89 million. lv. profit, which only up until 6 months ago, many people considered absolutely impossible to realize. I want to warn you immediately of the danger we will have from now on. When a lot of people find out that NEK is on the take, they're gonna have all kinds of ideas about new renewables, all kinds of things, about Belene and so on. So we must be very careful, Madam Minister, from now on, and I would say about the seventh block of Kozloduy and so on. I would like to ask you as a further question about the good financial situation or improvement in order to be correct, as we still cannot talk about a good financial situation, and we can talk about improving the financial situation of NEK, is a reason to take a loan so as to renegotiate the contracts with the US power plants, as we all call them "Marica 1" and "Marica 3" in order to further reduce costs from here on. Do you think that in the light of the better data of NEK there is reason to believe that the Bulgarian Energy Holding can obtain under good conditions the necessary credit, so that the contracts with Do you think that even without a state guarantee this can happen or will a state guarantee be necessary for the successful completion of the next or another measure for the recovery of Bulgarian energy?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u329	A hole, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u330	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dimitrov! First of all, I would like to introduce just one explanation of the financial deficit to the National Electricity Company. With the measures we have taken, we have managed to liquidate and prevent the possibility of generating a new deficit in the system, which is a very good measure, a very good achievement. There is still the old, accumulated deficit that we all know how much it is. But this process and this problem will be solved with the accession to a very important other process, namely the full liberalisation of the electricity market. With full liberalisation, a compensatory mechanism will be established that will have the commitment to cover both the old tariff deficit and deficits if they continue to generate at present. Regarding your question regarding the credit claim by the Bulgarian Energy Holding to repay NEK's debts to the two US power plants, I can tell you the following. In the course of the procedure itself, a large part of the banks, apart from talks with the representatives of the Commission in the Bulgarian Energy Holding, also requested a conversation with representatives of the Ministry, in which they wanted to hear and make sure that the reforms carried out in the sector are really extremely important and that they are irreversible. I dare argue from the information I receive and from what I see and hear in the discussions with the banks that the procedure that is currently going will be successful and I very much hope that the conditions that these banks will offer are really good. And the National Electricity Company, I think, will be able to cover this amount of credit, as at present the National Electricity Company is the one that repays the previous issue, which the Bulgarian Energy Holding in 2013 withdrew in the amount of 1 billion. lv. So the National Electricity Company is stabilizing. This will give us an opportunity besides NEK and the entire electricity sector, which is undoubtedly a very serious plus for the successful completion of the bond issue. And with the payment of these two plants and the receipt of the money in the mines, that is nearly 400 million that will occur in the mines, we will also solve another very important issue related to the liquidity in the Bulgarian mines. Because there the main problem is the lack of liquidity. They also have a positive financial result, we are trying and costing, we are in the process of optimization, but the problem is liquidity. And that way they will have liquidity and that will allow them to carry out their investment costs, which is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u331	What about a government guarantee?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u332	The banks do not want a state guarantee so far, and they will not, as we cannot meet such a condition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u333	Next, a question asked by the National Representative Emil Raynov and Chavdar Georgiev regarding the implementation of specific commitments under a contract for the provision of concession for the extraction of non-ferrous metals from the locality of Lukina Padina. Chipras. Under the conditions of abuse of law, the same MPs have asked a second question concerning the same concession concerning the consequences, evidently, of the implementation of this concession contract of closure of a mining plant for the extraction of fluorite raw material in the city. Chiprovtsi and the dismissal of 107 workers. One question: three minutes for its development, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u334	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, obviously you are not interested in the substance of the questions and you are looking at the formal reasons to limit our right to ask the Minister. What's this about, fellow Members? The fluorite mine in the village of Ironna, Chiprovtsi municipality, is closed. Over 100 people remain on the street without bread. The municipality of Chiprovtsi has an unemployment rate of over 35% at the moment - one of the highest in the country. In fact, we are again faced with a clear example of the policy of this government "Boiko Borisov's cabinet #2 for the development of the Northwest, the most backward region in the country. The government's strategies for the development of the region are clearly not worth a penny and are only dust in the eyes of society. As we have seen today, everything is being liquidated by airports and railways and roads and mines are closing down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u335	Go to Chiprovtsi, leave the airports and the railways.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u336	I'll leave them, okay. The concession was given in 2011, Madam President, by the cabinet Boyko Borisov 1 and now the contract is stopped in the mandate of the cabinet Boyko Borisov 2. Madam Minister is responsible for the mining industry in our country, controls the implementation of this concession contract and therefore clearly needs to monitor how investors perform their duties. It is directly responsible for the fate of the people who are now going to the streets, along with the development of the mining industry, of course. Therefore, my questions to the Minister-General are as follows: have investments been made by the concessionaire for the first five years of the concession period under point (c). 7.2.3 of Decision No 420 of the Council of Ministers of 2009?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u337	Last, is the concession from 2011 or 2009?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u338	In 2011, Borisov gave permission to transfer the ownership of the concessionaire and actually started operating as of 2011. My second question is: were the concessionaire's annual work projects submitted under the same concession award decision as required by law? If such annual work projects are presented, how much fluorite raw material is planned for extraction in 2015 - 2016? In what circumstances has the activity of the fluorite raw material mine ceased in the city of Chiprovtsi since it is clear that the market explanations are not valid? And the most important question: has the concession contract for the extraction of fluorite raw material in the city of Chiprovtsi been terminated since fluorite was stopped there? And if I do, on what grounds is it terminated? If the contract is not terminated, why are the obligations under the concession contract not fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u339	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u340	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Raynov, Dear Mr. Georgiev! In the area of the town of Chiprovtsi, village of Zhelezna are divided two fields with The site of the concessions is the field of Lukina Padina. The area of Lukina Padina and the locality of Lukina Padina. The decisions of the Council of Ministers to grant the concession shall be dated 29 June 2005 and 30 May 2009 respectively and shall be for the extraction of non-metallic mineral minerals, fluorite raw material under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures. By letter received at the Ministry of Energy on 28 January this year, the concessionaire informed that it ceased its activities in the area of the Municipality of Chiprovtsi. In the letter as a reason for the cessation of activity, the concessionaire refers to the depletion of high-quality ore stocks for calcium fluoride and therefore the mine activity is unfounded. Another reason is the reduced demand for the raw material caused by the prohibited gases in the European Union. It should be noted that, until 28 January 2016, the concession holder carried out an extraction activity only from the locality of Lukina Padina, section of Lukina Padina, and in the locality of Lukina Padina. For the duration of the concessions, regular checks have been carried out on the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the concession contract. During the checks, no non-compliances giving grounds for termination of contracts were found. At present, the concessionaire does not wish to terminate concession contracts but only to cease production. The concessionaire should strictly fulfil his obligations under the concession contract and pay all the amounts due under it, including a concession fee, etc. At present, the concessionaire has submitted a project to close and re-cultivate the storage facility, which is to be examined by the Interdepartmental Technical and Economic Council of the Ministry of Energy. We are also informed that it is in the process of drawing up and a project to liquidate the mine, which will also be provided to the Council's attention. Regarding your question,........................................................................................................................ 7.2.3 of Decision No 420 of 30 May 2009 of the Council of Ministers, the following should be noted. Two concession contracts for the extraction of underground wealth were concluded with the Bulgarian Fluorite Ltd., respectively for the locality of Lukina Padina. The locality of Lukina Padina and the locality of Lukina Padina Padina. According to what you have said, 7.2.3. of the Decision of the Council of Ministers of 30 May 2009 concerning the locality of Lukina Padina, section of the Council of Ministers.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. £1,000. lv. By letter dated 7 February 2014, the Ministry of Economy and Energy submitted a report on investments made amounting to 542 thousand. lv. for the purchase of mining equipment and for the construction of road infrastructure. According to the above-mentioned decision of the Council of Ministers, the concessionaire regularly and within the time limit has submitted annual work projects which provide for the development of the site to be carried out by underground means. The presented annual work projects for 2015 and 2016 do not provide for extraction from the field of Lukina Padina, section. The projects provide mining works for expansion sections of mortars, allowing them to move the available mobile freight vehicles. In addition, I would add that, as regards the other locality, the beneficiary was obliged to invest 4 million under the concession agreement. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. lv. for the first three-year period. By letter received at the Ministry of Economy and Energy on 14 August 2008, the concessionaire paid an investment of 6 million. 469 thousand. BGN 944. With regard to the yield from the locality of Lukina Padina, section of Lukina Padina, for 2015 the company reported the yield of 131 thousand. 930 tonnes of fluorite raw material at 120 thousand planned. the tone. The project yield of the natural wealth for the same locality for 2016 is 55 thousand. the tone. With regard to the issue of employees, I will allow myself to make clear, as it is very important for all of us what will happen to the people who work in the mine. I also took the liberty of requesting information from the owner, the concessionaire, and I spoke to the mayor of Chiprovtsi municipality. The information provided is as follows. As of 15 June 2015, 124 people were involved in concession activities. One hundred and seven of them, as you rightly noted, have been released. According to information from the mayor, respectively the manager of the company, the data is as follows. There is an agreement between the concessionaire and the Employment Agency that a large part of the exempted employees be engaged in the enterprises in Montana, Chiprovtsi, Botevgrad and Vratsa. In addition, according to information from the concession firm, the latter will pay nine average wages for 2015 plus a sum for requalification of 250 BGN. and any leave to be paid for 2015 and 2016 as well as the amounts made by the employees. For 15 employees, additional compensation is also agreed. These are people with accidents, single mothers and other categories of faces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u341	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u342	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am not pleased with this quick and absolutely formal response you have given. Yes, the concessionaire must have presented you with all sorts of reports and documents, but I ask: has anyone checked them? Have the concessionaire completed the obligations under the contracts that he has concluded with you, as entrusted with this obligation by the Minister of Ministers? I mean, as a minister, not as a person. Do you even control the execution of the concession contract? And second of all, in terms of people. The concierge will probably take stars out of the sky too. He's gonna say it's all gonna end for these people, and he's not really gonna do anything. He's just gonna wash his hands, try to cut his expenses, because that's what he decided, he's got the best raw material, apparently the most affordable, he's got the huge profit, and he's gone where he went. In fact, let's also say his name is the group of Solvay. Will the government's policy on concessions ever change in this country? Will we have protection of national interest and protection of society? People don't mean anything, we fire them, they look for jobs somewhere else, yes, some benefits we will pay, and in fact they take our underground wealth, use them, earn huge profits and then they don't care about fate as much as the yield in Bulgaria... By the way, Chiprovtsi is one of the places where there are huge mining traditions. There are prepared people there, generations of prepared people. And we now, with a light hand, the only mining mine in Northwestern Bulgaria, and it has been cut, along with all kinds of other infrastructure. How can people live there? So I'm not happy with you at all. I have a feeling that you and your subordinates have an absolutely formal attitude, and employees who are directly responsible for the mining industry. We cannot have that attitude, especially in relation to the state of the Northwest. How are we gonna get these people not to run away from the state? Well, they'll run away, of course. Neither do they have a livelihood nor, when even an alleged foreign, serious investor hires them to provide some livelihood and people have some livelihood, then with a light hand we close. Under contract, isn't the investor obliged to do some extra time... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... let you know and there are clear programs for this when a production is liquidated. And this situation: we stop production, but we don't terminate the concession contract?! Well, then let's call off the concession contract, so another investor can come in, who'll be more responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u343	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u344	Thank you. Dear Mr. Georgiev, as I mentioned in my reply, first of all, this decision of the Council of Ministers on these concession contracts from 2005 and from 30 May 2009. So this decision and all the conditions under which these tenders were held, it is clear that they started long before 2011, when the concession implementation of the contract began. What has been necessary to do over the years as control powers in relation to both colleagues from the former Ministry of Economy and Energy and at present by the Ministry of Energy, I assure you it has been done. Regular checks have been carried out, regular reviews have been carried out and work programmes have been carried out, each detail has been considered very detailed. So I cannot agree with you that no control has been carried out. On the contrary, control is exercised, but we cannot have a direct impact on the activities of this private company and have any special requirements regarding its work and its assessment of whether this production is profitable. And with regard to people, believe me, we care about what happens to these people, and that's exactly why I wanted to talk to both the mayor and the manager of the firm so I could know what's happening to these people. I have the assurance of both the mayor and the Agency for Social Assistance, which is there in place that these people are set up with work, a part of them. People will also receive the benefits they are entitled to and, accordingly, the remuneration they have been agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u345	Next, a question by the National Representative Dimitar Tanev concerning the publicity of electricity transactions concluded between consumers and final suppliers or the public supplier for the quantities of electricity determined by the KEWRC within the availability. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u346	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! My question relates to the publicity of contracts concluded between consumers and end suppliers and the public supplier for the quantities of electricity determined by the KEWRC. Dear Minister, you know that with the Energy Act and on our proposal, we have proposed that the contracts concluded between consumers, on the one hand, and the public supplier, on the other, be exposed so that society can receive maximum transparency about who the suppliers are, at what cost the energy is being bought out, how much the Bulgarian citizens pay. We all pay for it. You also know about the debate that was held in the Commission and much of the data, I would say the most important of these contracts have been deleted. However, it remained the obligation to publish these contracts, to disclose them. In this regard, with my letter, I asked KEWRC President Mr. Ivanov to provide us with a list of these contracts, as required by the Law. The reply I received found that the KEWRC published 2202 contracts on its website, but, unfortunately, the letter states that the Commission does not keep a special register to provide information on all contracts and that the KEWRC is not able to identify persons who have failed to fulfil their legal obligation. In this regard, my question to you. I am under the impression that the Law, as we have adopted it, almost obliges only individuals to publish these contracts, but the responsibility of the administration and the authorities of the government as if it were not visible. So my question is: what are you going to do to comply with the legislation? What measures will you and the government take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u347	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, at the beginning of the answer it is appropriate, first of all, to clarify that it should be borne in mind that in art. 21, para. 1, t. 21 of the Energy Act, the power of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory to determine the availability of electricity generation to producers from which the public supplier buys electricity, as well as the quantities of electricity, in accordance with which the public supplier enters into a contract with the final suppliers. The regulatory authority shall determine the quantities of energy for the regulated market, as indicated by that norm, but not all specific energy suppliers. In accordance with art. 97, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law transactions on quantities of electricity are concluded at prices regulated by the Commission and under art. 98 of the Law, contracts are public. Within 14 days of the conclusion of the contracts, as from the entry into force of the legislative amendment, the Parties shall make them available to the Commission. The Treaties, together with all amendments and additions, whatever the name, should be made public on the Commission's website within 7 days of their receipt. The national electricity company, as a public supplier, is also a debtor within the meaning of art. 98, para. 2 of the Energy Act. According to information received from the National Electricity Company, NEK, as a public supplier, has sent all the necessary information about all the contracts that the National Electricity Company has signed. From now on, as you have mentioned, the commitment to their publication and their keeping in the register or in another form the publicity of these contracts is within the competence of colleagues from the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Moreover, the Law settles in art. 208 administrative criminal liability of an energy undertaking which does not provide information in the cases provided for in the Law, with the intended financial penalty from 5 thousand to 50 thousand BGN. The administrative-punishing authority in this case is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It is apparent from the cited legal provisions that the activity relating to the determination of the quantities of electricity determined in the context of the volatility, as well as the provision of publicity with the contracts concluded, including the imposition of administrative penalty penalties in the event of non-compliance of persons obliged to provide information is within the power of the Commission for energy and water regulation. In accordance with art. 20, para. 3 of the Energy Act in the exercise of its powers the Commission is absolutely independent of the executive power and is accountable for its activities before the National Assembly. In this regard, the Minister of Energy has virtually no way of affecting this process in any way. The Minister of Energy as sole owner of the capital of BEH, he is in turn sole owner of the capital of the National Electricity Company, we can also monitor the activities of the National Electricity Company in connection with its implementation of the commitments under art. 98 of the Energy Act. So what the National Electricity Company has reached as an arrangement and has concluded contracts, they are all made available to the Commission, as the Law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u349	The line, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u350	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, what I have heard as an answer from you does not satisfy me, because in practice it turns out that we have done so that the Law does not work. On the other hand, you say: but it is the responsibility of the Commission, as it is written down. However, a bigger problem is that I did not see in you the desire to change this, or at least the intention to jointly make changes so that Bulgarian citizens can really understand at least how many contracts there are. Not to mention, it's not about figuring out who's selling their energy at what cost, we don't even know how many contracts... I'm afraid that's what I saw in one of your responses, which I asked you in writing in terms of how many suppliers use preferential biomass prices. If I am not mistaken, the fact that we are almost expecting the initiative from them and no one, really, really nobody, to care how many these contracts are, whether new ones will appear after the parliament has banned such ones, is very disturbing. I'll make an offer in this direction as well. I hope you'll support me and finally have some order, to have some objectivity. We cannot justify each other, transfer our responsibilities between the office and the Commission, and finally suffer the Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u351	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u352	Dear Mr. Tanev, I fully support the position expressed by you, if there is a need, to undertake legislative changes. We will, of course, support them. Personally, I will support them, as we are all interested in knowing what is happening in Bulgarian energy, especially for us, for the National Electricity Company, to actually know what the public supplier is paying for. We are ready, I am ready, and at any time I am available to discuss various texts so as to take measures for legislative changes as well. We'll support them for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u353	Last question to Minister Petkova and for today's parliamentary control by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov on the critical condition of the Mini Maritsa-Eastern. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u354	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The problem with the mines is not new. We could hardly include it in the column "Actual issues" because...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u355	Don't say that, because it won't be about control then and why I missed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u356	No, no. It's very relevant as a consequence. I was just about to move on, Madam President. As consequences, if we don't pay attention to this problem, which is quite relevant, let me ask you what we do with the mines. You know, the huge money that they have to take from different electricity generation capacities is money that doesn't reach them for the moment, which leads to the fact that they can't implement their investment programme at all at the moment, they can't carry out the repairs they have to do, and they're almost at the limit of a state in which they will stop coal mining, because you know what the ratio of disclosures to the front of the job is. In this regard, I ask you very much to inform me exactly what is being done? Because we know the intentions to withdraw the relevant credit from BEH, we know that this money will be used to rely on the US power plants, we know that the US power plants will intercept this money due to the mines. This is all very beautiful, but we don't know a single question and it's when?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u357	Minister Petkova, we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u358	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ermenkov! The question that you are asking is really extremely important. This is one of the main issues, one of the main problematic topics in the Bulgarian energy sector. In this regard, I will allow myself to present to your attention, as you have mentioned, the main problem is, in fact, the lack of liquidity, the lack of finances. This problem, which is much more frightening, is starting to become a problem with technology, which really already sounds rather disturbing. In this regard, I will provide you with information about the actions we have taken and the Ministry of Energy and colleagues from the Bulgarian Energy Holding, so that I can inform you about the status of the mines at the moment. First of all, it may be important to say what the financial results are in the mines, so that it is clear where the problem starts and how we see its resolution. In 2015 mini "Maritsa-East" will report a positive financial result for its activity. It will be the result of 8 million. BGN, for a profit reported for 2014 of 5 million lv. According to the annual financial statement, the operating financial result of the company's activities for 2014 amounted to 71 million. BGN, and according to preliminary data for 2015 Mini "Maritsa-east" I will take a positive operational financial result of my activity of 112 million. lv. As of 31 December 2014, the company's liabilities amounted to 474 million. BGN and, according to preliminary reporting, as of 31 December 2015 amounted to 632 million. BGN, or the same, grew by 158 million. As of 31 December 2014, the claims amounted to 274 million. BGN, whereas according to preliminary reporting as of 31 December 2015, they amounted to 456 million. BGN, or there is an increase of 182 million. lv. As compared to 2014 In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State The remaining 81 million. lv. they are claims from TPPs and TPPs from TPPs. As shown above, the main problem in the company is the lack of liquidity and the accumulated inter-company debt over the years. Here comes the role and place of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which as a financial holding company, has one main task and it is to provide funding to companies within the holding. Including, of course, mines, maritsa-east. It is in this capacity that the Bulgarian Energy Holding launched an open procedure for selecting a financial institution or institutions to provide funding of up to 650 million. EUR for the payment of NEK's obligations to the two US power plants, which, in turn, should repay their obligations to the Mini Maritsa-Eastern. As you know, the first procedure was unsuccessful and a new direct negotiation procedure was subsequently launched, invitations were sent up to 25 of the world's largest banks. They showed interest in 11. At the moment the negotiations have ended with 10 of the banks and at the beginning of next week we expect to receive binding offers in relation to this loan. The provision of this resource, if the credit is successful, we hope it will be so, that the provision of this resource will enable the Mini Marritsa East to receive its claims from US power plants of 375 million. BGN, thus the problem of the lack of liquidity at this stage will be solved. In addition, recovery of claims will enable the company to implement its investment programme, which will in turn create prerequisites for resolving the problem of finding in the mines. In this regard, the Ministry of Energy entrusted "Min project" as a designer to conduct an analysis of the mining activities. That's the kind of analysis that was done. The general conclusion was that the technological status of the mines was deteriorated especially after 2012. This, in turn, imposed the establishment of a working group within the Ministry, which included all representatives of the companies. A mine recovery plan was drawn up by 2018 and brought them into the relevant norms. So I hope with joint efforts that we will be able to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u359	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u360	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Basically, in your exhibition we repeated my thesis on the matter, only with more specifics and more data, more numbers inside, but I never understood when. You said that you would be leading soon, hoping it could happen, but very please, you know that if the mines stop working, this will have the effect of the domino on the entire state's electricity system, I am not talking about the unemployed, i.e. the people who will be unemployed and without income, but will stop all three coal plants in the country, which will lead to the collapse of the entire system. Therefore, in my opinion, at least you and your team should, and colleagues from BEH basically, look for backup options, because there is nowhere a signed insurance policy, that what you are going to negotiate will happen, and that in the foreseeable future there will be a contract with the relevant banks. Moreover, the lack of such a reserve option puts banks at a more advantageous position than the government is in terms of negotiations, as I apologize for what I will say, but we are stuck in the corner if we do not have options. So I would ask you very much, if you have the opportunity to, or do not reveal any trade secret or have any other political or conjunctural considerations that do not allow you to answer me, however: do you have a backup option to trigger with regard to mines to avoid this effect of the domino that I am talking about, provided that in the near, foreseeable future of three-months, they are critical, by the way, I would even say that four are many, you fail to negotiate the relevant loan between BEH and some of the banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u361	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, there is no secret. There is no reason to have such a secret, as the problem is common. It's all of us and we all need to know about it and everyone trying in some way to help solve it. We are really counting on getting good offers from the banks. There are such positive signals. I also had conversations with some of the banks. Colleagues from BEH are also negotiating very intensively. There are indications that banks will give credit under good conditions. Option B: you know that the main problem in the sector is liquidity, but given the stabilisation of the sector and the good financial results that BEH as a group will take into account as a whole, will enable us, if there is no option A, to grant a certain resource, to lend the mines to allow them to carry out the investment costs. I hope that we will succeed with option A, because this is the option that is working. This will really give the mines a chance to get the money they've made. This will unblock the entire process, both on investment and on discovery, and minimize the risks that you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-19.u363	I thank Minister Petkova for participating in today's parliamentary control. Ladies and gentlemen, the next regular plenary session is next Wednesday, February 24, 2016, the starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
