ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u1	I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. Honourable Members, allow me to present the Programme Project for the period from 5 to 7 October 2016. As you know, we are the first Wednesday of the month and some of the parliamentary groups are taking advantage of their right to offer items on the agenda under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which shall not be voted on. These are precisely the following: Firstly, we have a proposal from the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. They propose a first vote on the Law amending the Law on Radio and Television. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 20 January 2016. We do not have any proposals from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center-People's Union, the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attacka" and the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative for Bulgarian Revival. We have a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. It is the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016, was adopted at the first vote on 3 June 2016. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We also have a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, namely the second vote on the Bill amending the Law on Family Aid for Children. Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015. He was accepted at the first vote on 15 April 2016. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We have a proposal from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group, and it is the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers are Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. The other points that we propose to you and should be voted on are: The Fifth Point of the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016, adopted at the first vote on 3 June 2016. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The 6th item is the first vote on bills to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers are Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Danail Kirilov. The bill was submitted on 28 July 2015 and another bill with importers Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova, Lachezar Nikiforov, Yanko Yankov and Stanislav Anastasov, submitted on 7 July 2016. The seventh item we propose will be a report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including a financial statement for the months of January. The importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 June 2016. The eighth item is the second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. Adopted in first vote on 14 July 2016. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The ninth item is the second vote of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016, adopted at first vote on 8 September 2016. Tenth item.. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which will start at 12:00. The 11th item of Parliamentary Control under Articles 91 to 103 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, honourable Members, let's vote. We are voting on the part of the proposal for a programme to be voted on. They voted 145 MPs: for 103, against 21, abstention 21. The proposed program has been accepted. Proposals for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal was made by the MPs Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. It's the same as their proposal under para. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, to argue your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Very rarely do we allow ourselves to make proposals under art. 50, para. 3, unless it's really important. You see, we have now made such a proposal four MPs from two parliamentary groups. It reproduces what is done under art. 50, para. 8, namely to look at changes in the Law on Obligations and Contracts, concerning the so-called legal interest. Why do I say it's important, and why do I say it's worth putting this item on the agenda this week? Colleagues, it's going to cost us roughly 60,000. lv. Each day, less interest on the Arbitration Decision on Belene, if this Bill is adopted, and it is adopted as quickly as possible. If you look at the reference that, as a result of our efforts to make this Arbitration Decision available, has still been announced by the Council of Ministers, you will see on the second page of it how it is written above that NEK has been ordered to pay and... and there is a table in which there are some colossal amounts of about 450 million. euros on which Bulgarian legal interest is due per day. So with this Law, which puts a ceiling on the amount of Bulgarian legal interest, from the time of adoption of the bill it will be calculated according to the adopted Bill. In fact, the bill, as you might expect from your colleague, Professor. Lilkov is quite motivated. It is the first importer based on a very detailed study of European experience and shows that in Bulgaria the legal interest is probably the highest in the European Union. It has been like this for nearly 20 years and its amount, which is defined as the basic interest rate of BNB plus the 10% allowance, has not been changed in the last 20 years. So you can make your own account when it was introduced 20 years ago, in those years of hyperinflation, bank defaults and so on, that there were quite other considerations and justifications for having such a large allowance. Currently, the base rate is about 1%, or below, and we put 10 times more of it added to the base rate to form this legal interest. That's why every day costs us 300,000 interest rates from Belene and there is a real chance that they will be reduced, as I have paid attention to, by at least 60 thousand. lv. a day, so I'm asking you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Please vote on the proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 43, against 8, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am addressing you for a re-vote, first of all, because not all of my fellow Members have been able to vote. And next, because if Bulgarian citizens ask you: why is the legal interest in Bulgaria higher than almost the entire European Union, what will you answer them?! Why is Belgium 8%? Why is Germany 8%? Why is Greece 8%? Why is Estonia 8%? Why is Spain 8%? Why is Ireland 8%? Why in almost the entire European Union is 8% and in Bulgaria it is the main interest rate plus 10%? This puts a lot of pressure on citizens and businesses when they have obligations to banks, to mobile operators, to heat efficiency, to erepeta and so on. Many people because of this, honourable colleagues, are bankrupt, going bankrupt. Bulgarian citizens are in an extremely difficult state because the legal interest in Bulgaria has a sanctioning nature, not a compensatory one, such as the original idea. And I am interested in those of you who did not support this proposal, what will they do for the people who, because of this mechanism, are literally going into personal bankruptcy?! Why should legal interest be above that in European countries in Bulgaria? What is the logic and the reason?! Are we richer than the Germans, ladies and gentlemen, to have higher legal interest on Germany, for example? This bill is not accidentally signed by lawmakers from the Reformation Bloc, and Metodi Andreev from GERB, so our goal is to make legislation that is proportionate and compatible with the European and fair. These texts were submitted before the Arbitration Decision on Belene. Yes, there is an additional bonus here. We will also reduce the interest paid on this Arbitration Decision, but that is not the main issue. I call on you, as people concerned about the Bulgarian citizens, to support these texts. If you have a better version, we will accept your version between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u5	Thank you. Revoting procedure, colleagues. They voted 130 MPs: 58, against 5, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. There has been a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev for inclusion in the Program on the grounds of art. 50, para. 3 Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. There is no way to put it to the vote because the requirements of art. 50, para. 3. There's no report, but it's not that important. Due to infringement of art. 50, para. 3 will not be put to the vote. The next proposal on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure and Organization of the National Assembly.. I propose to be included as a point in the forthcoming weekly program of the National Assembly from 5 to 7 October 2016. Draft for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 554-01-177.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have the floor, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, very often, perhaps with good reason, government officials say they have increased budget collection thanks to the successful fight against smuggling. But my proposal is also in the direction of financial discipline, namely financial crimes within the meaning of the Criminal Code, to be investigated by investigators, not by investigative officers at the Ministry of Interior. My present proposal is in two directions. On the one hand, in the first place, statistics show that on average an investigative officer investigates around 100 pre-trial proceedings per year, while an investigator investigates about 10 investigative cases. There is no dispute that investigators are more experienced, longer-term employees and all are lawyers, and it is good, on the one hand, that we load the investigators and investigators, because so many of them are not sufficiently involved and although they have the necessary capacity, professional and any other experience, these crimes are not an object and they are not working on them. On the other hand, it is very difficult for an investigative officer who has over 100 pre-trial proceedings to have the opportunity to work quality on financial crimes, and that, honourable Members, is money laundering, tax crimes, very often crimes against the insurance system. There are not one and two cases where very often these crimes are related to international participation. This requires really serious preparation. Offering this proposal to your attention, with many colleagues we have spoken, both in the Internal Commission and in the Legal Commission, I think we will support this idea, on the one hand, to load investigators from the National Investigation Service and from the departments to the district prosecutors, and to unload investigative officers to the Ministry of Finance. Last but not least, and with this ending, this will undoubtedly have a disciplined effect. I just want to draw attention to the fact that all pre-trial proceedings initiated as a police investigation are eventually converted into investigative cases and they go to the investigators. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But it has already been 2 years since the crime was committed, and the perpetrator of the crime cannot really be punished. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 138 MPs: 70 against 2, abstention 66. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is from the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria Angel Naydenov on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that a Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code should be included on the National Assembly's agenda for the period from 5 to 7 October 2016. [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for revoting. Noise and lines.]] Come in for a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I didn't get a vote. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please be certified. I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u9	Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] That's the most serious reason to re-vote. [[noise and lines]] , and only one. Vote 156 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 65. [[Applause from DPS and BSP LB.]] The motion is accepted. We continue with the proposal which I introduced you to....................................................................................................... Please, Mr. Popov, present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, once again we present to your attention this Bill. Just a few weeks ago, in front of this building, there was a really fair trial for parents of disabled children who, unfortunately, you didn't hear. The aim of this Bill is to create more justice, care and dignity of these Bulgarians, who are virtually at a disadvantage, but are an important and inalienable part of our society. You know that the degree of development of a society and a state is measured according to how it is the society, and the institutions take care of the weaker one, for the more needed help and support. The huge aid that the state provides to these parents, benevolently granted by the government, amounts to BGN 240. Please note that these parents do not have the opportunity to work so that they can take good daily and hourly care of their children. Having reached their age in order to continue their responsible protection and care for them, there is yet another obligation to these parents, which they have been entrusted with by the state for which they should pay the State again. They should embark on a judicial procedure to put their children under suspension. This procedure cost them between BGN 1500 and BGN 2000. The money these people don't have, and there's no way they're gonna get. For parents or adopters of disabled children, the request and the proceedings for placing under suspension is an act that is outside their will, outside their will or unwillingness. What we propose as a Bill is to supplement the GPC in the direction of the parents of disabled children to be exempt from the fees and expenses they pay when they go through the judicial custody phase. I'm sure what I've shared from this high tribune is known to everyone. I hope that each of you will show social sensitivity and care for these people. Because it is up to you, not to the government, party or European boss, but to you, the Bulgarian MPs. I sincerely hope for the support of this Bill, moreover, that there are already two bills in our weekly Programme to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code and there is nothing more natural and fair to consider this Bill. Thank you and I really hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. We are voting, honourable Members, on the proposal. They voted 144 MPs: 68, against 20, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, this is indeed an important bill showing the attitude of the National Assembly towards those people who are in a difficult situation. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Once again, we will watch the GPC, there is nothing natural to include this bill of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Revoting procedure. They voted 146 MPs: for 69, against 21, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u14	Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Declaration on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you. DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms On the eve of the presidential campaign, we strongly object to enjoying unacceptable and non-democratic these and adopting discriminatory and xenophobic decisions and laws. Winning the presidential post cannot be a bet for an age-old and traditional public relations, a restriction of the basic freedoms and the withdrawal of rights, including religious three days ago. The DPS parliamentary group strongly condemns attempts to provoke Islamophobia, which would eroticize the integration model of our civil society. We consider the ultimatively offering by proven nationalist and xenophobic political forces, blackmailing the ruling GERB, by introducing such laws on the agenda of society and parliament precisely for such an act. I recall this is not only the Law on wearing clothing, these were certain texts from the Election Code, and also the upcoming Law on Radio is television and three bills for amending and supplementing the Law on Religions. We express our deep concern about this type of attempt to undermine religious peace by overexploding public fears and manipulative messages. At the beginning of the mandate, we predicted that the non-systemic and national-popular neo-popular profile of the Patriotic Front would put in a permanent regime of provocation the ruling coalition through such anti-democratic issues. We have reminded many times that, when compromised with basic democratic values in the name of ephemeral coalition comfort, additional loss of pro-European identity and compromise of European standards and democratic standards would be inevitably achieved. When discussing and adopting discriminatory texts in some laws, we thought it was a kind of twist of the hands of the ruling GERB. On this basis, we said that from now on we will hardly give Bulgaria's Prime Minister a reason to thank the DPS for saving his cabinet. A few days ago, the President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms openly said that the ruling party tolerates political, ethnic, social and even religious opposition, hiding behind the curtains of the pseudopatriots, nationalists. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to state the following. Dear colleagues of GERB, on the basis of the undisputed facts cited, we state that the threshold of the measured opposition of the DPS, which until now was due to the natural and definite choice of Bulgarian citizens in 2014 to GERB, has already been passed. We now believe that these wicked acts are not conditioned only by the twist of hands in question. We suspect that the political party GERB actively initiated this type of policies and is not just an accomplice. If, in relation to the other current gaff, you have been charged with the application of the UN Secretary-General from many directions, including the DPS, in unprincipled, unprincipled and conjunctural behaviour, then with regard to these anti-democratic initiatives you have recently shown an enviable consistency and activity comparable to that of nationalist populists. The DPS parliamentary group says that the adopted so far, but also those adopted in the future, vicious, undemocratic, discriminatory acts and laws are a kind of watershed in our political relations with the political party GERB. Once again, the legislation adopted so far and from now on, which has a discriminatory and anti-democratic nature, is a kind of watershed in the relations between the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Political Party GERB. In the future these topics will be an insurmountable factor in our communication with GERB if there is it. Mr. Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB! Be assured that for any specific violation of democracy, I refer to the mandatory vote, the loss of selective law, the limitation of the vote abroad, the ban on election agitation in another language, the Law on the closing of the person and so on, and so on, we will talk profusely, irrigation and convincingly everywhere in Bulgaria, but especially in Dulovo, Nikola Kozlevo, Kubrat, Kotel, Yablanovo, also in Aitos, Targovishte, in Razgrad and in Kardzhali. You underestimated us! For these 26 years we have the senses with which we can see that in our opinion there is a short-sighted and without perspective game, and this unfair, politically incorrect game of the Patriotic Front and Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. It aims to win short-term electoral dividends on the part of the presidential nationalist couple and favouring them. The general aim of this insidious political game is, in our view, to minimize the burden of the relative electoral share of the candidates of the other system parties................................................................................ This is an ugly and immoral political bargaining, leading to the profanization of the presidential campaign, of the voters' messages in it, and even of the presidential institution itself. I am not sure, knowing Ms. Tsacheva, if she becomes president, whether she will be proud of the support of the ultranationalist political forces defined by the Council of Europe, not according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We believe that political wills and goals do not cost such a high price, namely a price that undermines principled public values and the right to free religion. Striking in this may be that we forget an axiomatic fact of religions, in principle are the moral code of any society, including the Bulgarian society. Obstructions of this nature are able to affect both the spiritual support but also the value system of believers. Ladies and gentlemen! We call on all democratic and especially parliamentary democratic forces not to become complicit in the adoption of such decisions and laws, such as the next item on the agenda, for example. The supreme goal of a country's legislative body is to adopt norms in the interests of society and to protect the security of this society by not adopting laws that create and inspirate rematchism, edifications and hatred. We call on all populists, nationalist and political forces to remember themselves, to reason and not to provoke public tensions on a religious basis on the eve of the presidential elections. Even in politics, there are limits that should not be crossed at any price because of any temptation. We are paying attention to the ruling GERB party not to enter the.... with the desire of patriots, we believe transitional politicians with a vengeful purpose, because this already destroys the bridges with other democratic and systemic political forces, which are both pro-European and pro-Atlantic. Moreover, this support, but also an active complicity, are pouring oil into the already heated in recent years a violent fire of primitive nationalism. We call on and hope that the prime minister of the country is an impregnable barrier to the manifestations of ugly, discriminatory atavisms of dark times. Finally, honourable Members, let us never forget that acceptance and respect for universal human values, tolerance between people and, above all, humanism are not merely a virtue, they are our debt. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DPS Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, the People's Representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the lives of each of us, there is one person who has lit the torch of knowledge in him. We are who we are, thanks to this man to the teacher. The man whose name we pronounce with worship and to whom we say: "Thank you for the lessons we have given, both for the knowledge and for the life. Today is October 5th "The International Teacher's Day. A day when we once again thank and worship the dedication to this profession is a calling. Turning education into a national priority is the leading policy of the political party GERB. Following the goal of support, appreciation and respect for the teacher's work, we defended 223 million more in Budget 2017 for Bulgarian education. These funds are the result of consistent policy and the adopted Law on pre-school and school education, for which GERB is the main engine in the last five years. Of that, 100 million. lv. are for increasing teacher's fees; 6 million for resource teachers; 1 million for student transport over 16 years; 2.5 million for the purchase and maintenance of student buses; 3 million for protected kindergartens. Another 50 million leva each year are invested in teachers through the operational programs. By increasing the funds for education in the first year of the adoption of the new Law, we clearly show that education is a real, national priority and that money follows the reform for quality education. With the new Preschool and School Education Act, as well as increased funding, we begin to solve the task of overcoming the socio-economic differences accumulated for decades. We are all aware that investments and teachers achieve the new philosophy of education. The law brings together the good practices implemented by teachers in various kindergartens and schools throughout the country. Master has the guaranteed right and freedom to decide how to manage his classroom, to choose the best teaching methods, the most appropriate lessons, the most modern practices. In this way, we clearly show that we believe and support the Master's abilities and professionalism. From the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB ensure that through the Law every teacher will develop his career according to his results and contribution, and not just according to his age. It's really linked to his social status. We've already put in ten retirement salaries. For the first time, innovative teachers are supported, whose excellent practices become national. In the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB we are convinced that all these measures actually confirm the high social status of the teaching profession. We continue to work to restore the dignity and prestige of the teaching profession, because a public contract in Bulgaria has never been violated the one with the teacher. Happy Thanksgiving, dear teachers! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u18	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. If there are no other statements from parliamentary groups, let me introduce you to the messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 28 September to 4 October 2016: On 29 September 2016 was received a Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, a Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, an Annual Report and a Report on the activities of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system for 2015 and an Annual Report on the state debt status for 2015. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 30 September 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was adopted. Importers: Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also assigned to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. On 30 September 2016, a draft decision was adopted to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. An activity report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015 was received on 30 September 2016. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 3 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention was adopted. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The annual audit programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016 has been submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The updated annual programme is sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a final Audit Report, No 0600-100-916, for an audit of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Health Commission and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing results of statistical research on the general index of producer prices in industry and price indices of a producer on the domestic and international markets for August 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the next item on the agenda. On the basis of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include it as an item on the agenda of the National Assembly: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importer: Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, on 20 January 2016. There are no reports from the committees to which the Committee on Culture and Media, which is the lead, and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, is addressed. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to you a bill amending the Law on Radio and Television. Our proposal is extremely short and, I would say, inconspicuously: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1, the words at the end of the sentence Art. 49. (1) The Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television create national and regional programmes, programmes abroad, including for Bulgarians abroad, programmes intended for Bulgarian citizens for whom the Bulgarian language is not maternal. Period! What are the reasons for our proposal? This bill aims to bring the provisions of the Law on Radio and Television into line with art. Art. 3 and Art. 36 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Those constitutional rules lay down that the official language in the Republic is Bulgarian. Its study and use is the right and obligation of Bulgarian citizens. In accordance with this regulation, the proposals for amendments to the Law on Radio and Television are also made. First of all, we suggest that it should be deleted that programmes or separate programmes may be in another language when they are intended for Bulgarian citizens for whom the Bulgarian language is not native. In our view, such a provision is contrary to the constitutional obligation of every Bulgarian citizen to study and use Bulgarian language and should not be an exception to the principle laid down in para. 1 of art. 12: The programmes shall be broadcast in the official language according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Similar are the reasons for the second proposed amendment in art. 49, para. 1 establishing the obligation of the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television to create programmes intended for Bulgarian citizens for whom the Bulgarian language is not native, including their language. We believe that such programmes should be only in the official language of the Republic of Bulgaria "Bulgarian"! Now the existing version of the amended provisions does not in any way encourage Bulgarian citizens, for whom the Bulgarian language is not mother tongue, to study and use the official language, thus, on the other hand, the objectives set out in those constitutional norms are not met. We believe that with the proposed amendments, we will achieve the necessary consistency between the provisions of the basic law and the rules of the Law on Radio and Television, subject to this bill. No funds shall be required for the implementation of the proposed changes. Moreover, their acceptance will even reduce the costs in the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. We are all witnesses to the fact that extremely serious funds for education were allocated on yesterday another 126 million. This education aims to educate citizens and in literacy, in the knowledge of the Bulgarian language. It is a shame that there will continue to be people in Bulgaria who do not understand the Bulgarian language with the funds allocated from the state budget. After all the resources that are being allocated, we believe that it is unacceptable to violate the Constitution and allow transmissions in a language other than the Bulgarian one. On the other hand, there is sufficient opportunity given under the Law on Radio and Television, as well as under the norms of democracy, for private media to broadcast broadcasts in the languages of their listeners, the language of their listeners or viewers. There is no restriction, as we know, on the distribution of Turkish-language programmes, on Turkish television programmes. You know that Turkish radio programs flood Southeastern Bulgaria. Ever since Sliven, you literally can't listen to Horizon because it's being jammed by Turkish radio stations. Everyone knows that fact. Thirdly, I must tell you that I do not accept the arrogant way in which they defend themselves, pseudo-protect democratic values, the way in which the declaration of the DPS Parliamentary Group was put out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u20	Please, under the bill, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u21	I only liked there one sentence: I appeal to the ruling party not to enter the Oh-oh-oh, willing to join a coalition with the Patriotic Front. I liked it the most. Finally, I call on all of you to vote responsibly so that we can remove the information burkas from the clean face of the Bulgarian National Television. Long live Bulgaria! [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u22	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. To speak, the people representative Irena Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm actually taking the floor for procedure. I would like to explain that this Bill with the reasons that you have highlighted has been tabled at the beginning of this year. On the same subject, with a similar motivation from the Party Group Ataka, another bill has been submitted to the Committee on Culture and Media so that the Law on Radio and Television can be changed at the beginning of the term of office. This is a topic that arises even with the emergence of the parties who oppose. Not now, however, is the time to consider this bill. Moreover, it has not been seen in either the Committee on Culture and Media, which is leading nor in the Committee on Religions. I would call on the debate, debate and vote on this bill to remain for the next time when the situation will not be damaged by religious, ideological values, value, religious and other disputes, and we could argue, in line with the recommendations given by the United Nations and the Council for Electronic Media, and the leading intellectual and scientific institutions in Bulgaria to make an objective and truly well-motivated decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sokolova. A reverse opinion? Mrs. Sokolova proposed a delay in the debate and the vote. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for your feedback.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, the meaning of art. 50, para. 8 as the norm in the Rules of Procedure is exactly such when a bill has not passed through committees to be able to be dealt with in the Chamber. However, it is about a bill which was tabled in January. For 10 months the committees have not dealt with this bill. I demand that it be considered, that this bill not be postponed, all the more so that I do not see what connection you are making with the elections. How long do we have to wait? Maybe we should wait for the next election or what? The truth is this: you, as the largest party in parliament, are afraid to take a firm and certain position, Mr. Tsvetanov. You're just scared right now. Indeed, the attitude towards this bill is a watershed. Now is the time to see which party is patriotic and has a patriotic orientation and which is not. I demand that he be accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Please order in the court! We are voting on the proposal made by Mrs Sokolova to postpone the debate and vote on this point. They voted 126 MPs: for 93, against 26, abstentioned 7. Ms. Sokolova's proposal to postpone the debate and vote on the bill has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] Is it a re-voting? There's no demand for a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Who, who, who wants a re-vote? Here you are, Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as you well know, since 2005, we have proposed that this Law be changed and that the news in Turkish language should be dropped, because you know perfectly well that this irritates the Bulgarian people that this is inappropriate, that this is simply in line with something else, but not with the will of the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u28	Please, it's not about the point, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u29	Yeah, get to the point. What have you done with this vote now? Just again, once again, let's sweep the problem like this under the carpet. [[DPS lines.]] Because what are we saying? That's why there's an election. Next time you'll find something else. Now we offer this, here are the texts that we from the "Attack" and our colleagues from the Patriotic Front have proposed -- brief, clear and precise. We have exactly five minutes to work here. So I suggest we rethink and once again not hang under the carpet this problem, but really face it. After all, that is why we are MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. It's a re-vote. Vote 128 MPs: 96, 26, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on the agenda requested on the basis of art. 50, para. 8 from the parliamentary group of political party GERB in the face of its Vice-President Tsveta Karayancheva. It proposes to examine the Interior Ministry Act No 602-01-9 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016, which was adopted on the first vote on 3 June 2016 and which we started in a previous plenary session: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order will introduce us to the President and the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. We're at § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, we are continuing with the bill from where we stopped on the last parliamentary day. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u32	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. We are voting § 19 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Paragraph 19 by importer supported by the Commission is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u33	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u34	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 20 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 85 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 20 of the Commission report has been adopted. Under § 21, there is a proposal from MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission proposes the following version of § 21: .................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 53a: It's 53a. The heads of the territorial units of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection are the legal person.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 21. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 21 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u36	Proposal by the MP Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as § 21. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Atanasov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u37	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 22 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u38	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 23, under Article 23 of the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of It's five o'clock. Grants (gifts) approved by the Committee on Art. 249, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Chapter 3 is created in Part One with art. 55a-55i: ..Chapter 3............................................................................................... State-owned enterprise "Center for the provision of services" Art. 55a. (1) A State-owned enterprise shall be established, with the status of a state-owned undertaking under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, hereinafter referred to as the State Enterprise. (2) The State enterprise shall be a legal entity with its registered office in Sofia and with branches of the branch, the number and titles of which shall be determined by the Minister of Interior. (3) The State-owned undertaking shall manage the property and property provided to it..................................................................................................... Art. 55b. (1) The subject of the activity of the State enterprise shall be: 1. provision of services related to the registration of road vehicles; 2. design, development, maintenance and development of software necessary for the provision of administrative services by the Ministry of Interior; 3. prepress preparation and printing of forms, samples and documents for the Ministry of Interior; 4. other activities defined by the Law on Electronic Governance and the Law on Electronic Identification and awarded by an act of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Interior. (2) For the performance of its activities, the State-owned enterprise shall process personal data and may use information organised in IT funds, systems or registers used or created under a law in accordance with its competence. (3) The property of the State enterprise shall consist of property granted to it by type, volume and value by the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Interior, and of property acquired by the State enterprise itself. (4) No enforcement may be directed against the property of the State enterprise. (5) No insolvency proceedings may be opened for the State enterprise. Art. 55c. (1) The financing of the activity of the State enterprise shall be carried out by: 1. the fees under § 6a of the Additional Provisions of the Road Traffic Act relating to the activities under art. 55b, para. 1, t. 1; 2. state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Interior; 3. income from own business; 4. interest on deposits of own funds and on late payments; 5. gratuitously provided funds (gifts); 6. other sources. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be taken for a walk: 1. carrying out the object of the activity of the State enterprise; 2. maintenance of the State enterprise; 3. investment costs. Art. 55d. (1) The management bodies of the State enterprise shall be: 1. the Minister of Interior; 2. the Management Board; 3. the Executive Director. (2) The State undertaking shall be represented by the Executive Director, who shall be a member of the Management Board by law. Art. 55e. Minister for the Interior: 1. exercise the ownership rights of the State in the State Enterprise and conduct the policy of the State in the field of registration of road vehicles; 2. approve the programmes and plans of the State enterprise for development and implementation of the activity; 3. control the State Enterprise for the implementation of the programmes and plans; 4. appoint and dismiss the Executive Director and the other members of the Management Board of the State Enterprise; 5. conclude contracts for the award of the management with the Executive Director and with each of the other members of the Management Board which determine their remuneration; 6. issue rules on the structure, functions and activities of the State enterprise; 7. validate the decisions of the Management Board for the participation of the State Enterprise in international organisations; 8. approve the annual activity report of the State Enterprise and the annual financial statement; 9. decide on the disposal, scrapping or liquidation of fixed tangible assets, the establishment of property rights and the lease of real estate on a proposal of the Management Board in accordance with the provisions of the State Property Act. Art. 55f. (1) The Management Board shall consist of three members, including the Executive Director. The members of the Management Board shall have higher education and professional experience in activities related to the subject of the activity of the State enterprise. (2) It shall not be a member of the Management Board who shall: 1. is convicted of a common criminal offence established by an effective sentence; 2. is a spouse or relative by rights, on a competitive line or by matchmaking to the third degree including, with another member of the Management Board; 3. hold a leadership or control position in a political party; 4. is deprived of the right to conduct a commercial activity; 5. engage in commercial activity with an object similar to that of the State enterprise. (3) An Executive Director shall not be a person for which the circumstances under para. 2, p. 1-4 as well as if it is engaged in a commercial activity or is a manager, a commercial agent, a commercial representative, a prosecutor, a commercial intermediary, a liquidator or a trade union member of a management or control body of a non-profit entity, a commercial company or a cooperative. (4) The Governing Council shall meet at least once a month. (5) The meetings of the Management Board shall be organised and led by the Chair of the Board and, in his absence, by the Vice-President. (6) The rules on the work and the convening of the Management Board shall be approved by the Minister of Interior on a proposal from the Management Board. (7) The decisions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a clear vote and by a simple majority of all members. Meetings shall be regular if more than half of its members are present. (8) Minutes shall be kept for the meetings of the Management Board to be signed by all members present. (9) The Minister for the Interior shall: 1. terminate the management contract with a member of the Management Board: (a) in the event of a circumstance under para. 2, and with the Executive Director, the case under para. 3; (b) which infringes or does not fulfil the obligations laid down in the law or in the contract for the award of management; (c) who has submitted a written application for an exemption; (d) upon entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; (e) in the event of a factual failure to fulfil its duties for more than three months; 2. may terminate the management contract with a member of the Management Board upon his decision without notice. (10) The Management Board shall: 1. elect from among its members the President and Vice-President; 2. adopt draft rules on the structure, functions and activities of the State enterprise and propose it to the Minister of Interior; 3. adopt decisions to develop, adopt and amend draft programmes and plans for the activities of the State Enterprise; the programmes and plans shall be submitted to the Minister of Interior for approval by 31 January for the forthcoming three-year period, respectively for the upcoming year; 4. adopt the Annual Financial Plan of the State Enterprise; 5. adopt the structure and state of the State of the State undertaking and approve the salary funds in accordance with the Annual Financial Plan; 6. accept the Annual Financial Statement of the State Enterprise and submit it to the Minister of Interior for approval; 7. adopt the Annual Activity Report of the State Enterprise and submit it to the Minister of Interior for approval; 8. propose to the Minister of Interior solutions for the disposal, scrapping or liquidation of fixed tangible assets, the establishment of property rights and the lease of real estate; 9. adopt draft decisions for the participation of the State Enterprise in international organisations and propose them to the Minister of Interior for validation; 10. adopt decisions on opening, carrying out and completion of procedures for the award of public contracts worth more than 100 000 BGN. without VAT; 11. propose to the Minister of Interior for the participation of the State Enterprise in programmes and projects financed by EU funds, the State budget and other financial sources and programmes; 12. adopt acts relating to the activities carried out by the State undertaking, where provided for in a regulatory act; 13. perform other functions related to the management of the State Enterprise, in accordance with the existing regulations or entrusted to it by the Minister of Interior. (11) The Governing Council may take decisions and in absentia if all members have made written consent to the decision. Art. 55g. (1) The Executive Director of the State Enterprise shall: 1. represent the State undertaking before the state authorities, courts and third parties in the country and abroad; 2. organise, manage and control the overall activity of the State enterprise; 3. organise and implement the decisions of the Management Board; 4. take decisions on opening, conducting and completing the procurement procedures of up to 100 000 BGN. without VAT; 5. conclude contracts for the activities carried out by the State enterprise; 6. conclude and terminate the employment relationship with the employees of the State enterprise; 7. report its activity to the Management Board and to the Minister of Interior; 8. draw up and submit to the Management Board and to the Minister of Interior monthly reports on the activities of the State enterprise; 9. prepare and submit to the Management Board and the Minister of Interior an annual report on the activities of the State Enterprise. (2) In the case of statutory leave or secondment, the functions of the Executive Director shall be performed by an employee of the State Enterprise appointed by the Minister of Interior. Art. 55z. (1) The State-owned undertaking shall keep accounts on a cash and accrued basis in accordance with the procedure laid down for budgetary organisations. (2) The reported data on the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and operations of the State enterprise shall be consolidated according to art. 167 of the Public Finance Act. (3) The funds of the State enterprise shall be collected, stored, spent and reported in a bank account in the Bulgarian National Bank according to the order and requirements applicable to the budgetary organisations. (4) The funds and operations of the State Enterprise shall be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under art. 13, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act and are not part of the state budget. Art. 55i. The Annual Financial Statement of the State Enterprise shall be audited by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u39	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Mr. Jankov, then Mr. Merdjanov. Mr. Krasimir Jankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! During two bills, the idea of the so-called State Enterprise is being passed. The Center for the provision of services in the Ministry of Interior. The first time, after arguments and pressure from the business side, was withdrawn to reappear in the second version under one or another form with a changed name and partly with changed functions, but obviously and not with a changed intention to have business in the Ministry of Interior. The draft amendment and supplement of the Ministry of Interior Act states that it will carry out activities such as software products development, prepress and printing preparation, issuing of personal documents and others. In the same project it is written that this state-owned enterprise will be financed mainly by three directions of state budget, budget of the Ministry of Interior and donations. Although the Interior Minister repeatedly tried to present to the public in a wonderful light how good it would be to create such an enterprise, under the encouraging view of the President of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission and his approval reactions to the first so-called Public Discussion of the Law, where he himself stated on the occasion of the State Enterprise: "Very well that the BMW company returned to the Ministry of Interior and it was a good practice and policy for the work of the Ministry of Interior and so on and how it, as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister for Administrative Reform, thought only very well and first of all about the financial stabilisation of the Ministry of Interior. According to the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law of the Ministry of Interior, its part of the Ministry of Interior is filed and is in violation of both Bulgarian and European legislation. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria has been violated with an attempt to create an enterprise, namely art. 19th para. 2 of the Constitution to provide all citizens and legal persons with equal legal conditions for business, prevention and abuse of monopoly status, unfair competition and consumer protection, as well as the Commercial Law on the basis of which this undertaking is established, because it must not allow unfair competition with other market entities in its activities. And will competition be allowed? Is there no software suppliers, prepress and print preparation on the market? That's the question I'm asking. Is this state-owned enterprise, created with budget money, including our money, as well as the taxpayers' money that this same business pays to form this budget, not going to compete with the same business, as it will have everything from the state? This is also state aid within the meaning of all the legislation, and why does the Minister of Finance turn a blind eye? Moreover, he is a responsible person under the Law and on the basis of the European legislation which he must notify and ask the European Commission in advance whether this is State aid and can such an undertaking be made in which the State is to pour funds into? Why is there no and no impact assessment and, above all, a financial impact assessment of the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act in question? On what grounds will such a state enterprise, created under the Commercial Law, which can very easily subsequently pass into other hands, collect state fees? The activities for which the public body or budgetary organisation concerned may charge shall be explicitly and comprehensively listed in art. 4 of the Law on State Fees. The state fees shall be collected by the judicial authorities, other state bodies and budgetary organisations in the amounts fixed by tariffs and approved by the Council of Ministers and entered into the state budget, unless otherwise provided by law. It is apparent from the Project, and in particular from this Article, that the project state enterprise is not a budgetary organisation or a state body and in this sense remains unclear on what basis and for what activities this undertaking will collect state fees. It is in violation of European norms and, in particular, of art. Art. 106, § 2.................................................................................... 86 of the consolidated version of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the case of public undertakings, Member States shall not have the right neither to accept nor to maintain the existence of any act contrary to the provisions contained in the contracts, and in particular the provisions laid down in art. Art. 18 and art. 101-109. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. In other words: The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not have the right to introduce norms under which to create structures to carry out a covert commercial activity, presenting it as administrative services, including compliance with the principle of art. 107 of the Treaty if these services are not marketed by the trader. The State, in the person of that undertaking, must deliver them at the appropriate reasonable price. And is there not enough suppliers of the majority of the activities under this Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act concerning the establishment of a state enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Atanas Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be relatively brief and laconic, as Iankov, my colleague, explained most of the arguments. Look, fellow Members, the truth is very simple. In fact, this Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act is only adopted because of this state-owned enterprise. State-owned enterprise, which is absolute anachronism, state-owned enterprise, which focuses the entire circle of relations, signs, administrative services and then we say that there were no corporate interests, that there was no lobbying, that there were no lobbying amendments in the legislation! I understand Mr. Tsvetanov, who very elegantly, very gentlemanly approaches to the Minister, in order to remove her from this embarrassing situation, as the serious amendments to this project, Mr. Tsvetanov, you yourself withdrew, clearly understanding and realizing what great tensions lie in the Ministry of Interior. How can we create a state enterprise under the Commercial Register...................................................................................................... 62, para. 3, and at the same time according to para. 4: Against the property of the state enterprise cannot be directed to enforcement, and para. 5: Can no insolvency proceedings be opened for the State enterprise? I'm not a lawyer, there are plenty of fat lawyers, financiers, economists who can conclude that this is an extraordinary legislation, a bonus and that, notice, in a repressive apparatus such as the Ministry of Interior, which is contrary to any European norms. This is precisely why our parliamentary group, with colleagues, are proposing that this text be dropped categorically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 79 MPs: 17 against 43, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 9 against 12, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 23 which, after the amendment of the Commission, becomes § 22 in its report. 90 MPs voted: 74 against 9, abstention 7. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u44	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the end, it is added to para 56. The
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23 with its corresponding content on the report. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 2, abstention 8. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u46	Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: A new § 23a is being created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 2 before the end point to add a comma and after it the text: as well as the staff teaching in vocational training and in the initial vocational training of police authorities The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: To create § 23a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 2 is finally a comma and is added: as well as the staff teaching in vocational training and in the initial vocational training of police authorities. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u47	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are making this proposal because we believe that there is a serious view and the meaning of doing it in this order. I'll read again: we offer in art. 57, para. 2 before the end point to add a comma and after it the text as well as the employees and, I stress,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We believe that it is the police authorities that need to be complemented in the legal argumentation with the people who teach this type of activity, and they must be a permanent part of the police authorities. We believe that the capacity, the level of training, the expertise that is formed in initial and vocational training will be much better and this will be a guarantee of much better and more effective future results in the Ministry of Interior system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The proposals are not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 19 against 26, abstention 39. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u50	Paragraph 24 "A proposal from the National Representative Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u51	We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 24. Vote 73 MPs: 64 against 6, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject § 24 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u52	Paragraph 25 "A proposal from the National Representative Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly" § 25 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u53	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 16 against 43 abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which is supported by the Commission, and shall become § 24 in its report. We are voting § 24 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 71 against 7, abstention 3. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u54	Paragraph 26 s of a proposal from the National Representative Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u55	Mr. Simeonov's proposal is to dismiss § 26. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 5 against 6, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 25 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 72 MPs: 69 against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 25 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u56	Paragraph 27 "A proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u57	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 44, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 26 on the Commission report. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against 3, abstention 1. Paragraph 26 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u58	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, para. 7 a sentence is created second: "The time obstruction facilities can also be constructed outside the boundary line, in maximum proximity to it, where there are heavy terrain and other specific conditions and/or under proven technical and economic appropriateness.'
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u59	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal was discussed with different representatives of the professional circles, NGOs, and it essentially also poses certain risks. We believe that the fence will be built in our territory, as policemen and servicemen will be behind it. On the other hand, it remains a virtually unguarded area, which we believe is a form of refusal of national sovereignty in relation to the territory behind the fence. This thing is also regulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is stated that one square meter of land cannot be retreated for these reasons or other similar considerations. In this regard, we at the ABB will not support this proposal by calling again and stressing that it is in agreement with a number of experts, professionals and NGOs who are definitely of the opinion that such a proposal, if accepted, will also open additional risks to the national sovereignty of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Belemezov, I have the feeling that you have not read the proposal carefully. I take a line to make a statement, as with your speech you have made a refusal from territory that is not the case at all. Firstly, the proposal starts with temporary obstructions. This is about terrains where there is no chance of engineering and technical thought to build permanent obstruction facilities, which every MP and Bulgarian citizen would like to become. Since science, engineering thought and financial capacity do not allow it, what do you suggest according to your statement? To remain absolutely unguarded this Bulgarian territory or to have a legal opportunity to build temporary such facilities, for example when directing a large stream of economic adventurers who had previously directed that part of the Bulgarian territory had remained unguarded? I think it is good that you reconsider your decision and support this text because it allows the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian territory to be protected in the best possible way. Again, it's about temporary facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And in communism, there were branches. They were where it was convenient. Of course, people with wagons were carrying land for the control field. It's right between the pyramids in the so-called "supreme zone." There was a first border zone, a second border zone. It is done where it is convenient and where effective protection can be found. Agree that by convention the border passes in the Talvega, in the fairway, in the deepest part of the river. Could you tell me if we put the fence there, how many hours will it take? I guess by the first rain, by the first trees to go down the river. We're gonna have a permanent national site that we're gonna keep cleaning up, and it's gonna keep breaking down. It can be done on the shore, but there may be a spill on the river. The result will be the same. These facilities are made there to be permanent, so that we can pass with one payment and not with permanent payments. They have nothing to do with the agreements concluded, agreements from where to go the physical route of the border, which rivers. They're not subject to doubt. The pyramids will stay where they were. The border will be where it is. If there is a control-trace field, it will be where it is. These temporary facilities will be made in direct sections, in more normal possibilities and roads, so that they can spend longer time in order for patrol pairs to be able to walk them more easily. Then they will be fewer people, but with vehicles they will cover larger areas. Perimeter security and cameras will cover including territory entering the other side, which does not mean we are invading new lands. On the contrary, we guard from a further zone our responsibility zone, our Bulgarian territory. There will be no violation of Bulgarian lands, no loss of one meter. As it was guarded during communism, it will now be guarded by more modern facilities. The goal is for the fence to be built more quickly and to pass through sections through which it can be easily built and to be able to guard the security parts distributed there, to be able to guard the adjacent territory with a smaller composition, more mobile and faster. There's no problem at all. I think you too, when you build your fence, won't do it over the cliff, but you'll go around the cliff. Agree that whatever highway you go on, the waitress goes, but where there's a pool, the fence goes a little higher so that it can protect people and not enter animals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u65	The weather, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u66	If you're trying to tell me that every highway should be exactly 3,50 meters from the fence, I don't think it's serious. Nothing's broken anywhere. Not one meter will be taken from the territory. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u67	Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank my colleagues, who did the lines because we are talking about security at the Bulgarian state border. I believe that, in a legislative way, we must not hide behind the hypothesis that in certain sections, engineering decisions will not work. If we're looking for the easiest option, let's make it next to the first settlement, to the first municipality. This will be extremely easier for our country and thus we will protect citizens, but in no way will we protect the state border and national sovereignty. That's one thing. On the other hand, we at the ABB appeal for the rapid construction of obstruction facilities, but to be sufficiently reliable, qualitative and, if possible, very long lasting. No one has an estimate of when the crisis with migrant flows and refugees will be resolved. Speaking of the construction of mediocre facilities in order to build the common protection zone, I think this is pure speculation. Let us not forget that we have been talking for more than three years about the possibility of completing this type of facility. This isn't happening. Wasn't it made efficient in other countries?! Has Bulgaria not done this quality enough in the years behind?! I believe that any of the allegations put forward in these lines are extremely untenable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, colleagues! I suggest that this paragraph is not supported. I don't think we should, with a change in the Law, justify the already changed course of the engineering-obstruction facility that is being built. It was supposed to be built by June this year. Isn't that right, Mrs. Bachvarova? Don't let anyone think it's about next year. This facility is already being built. By the way, it builds four times more expensive than at the beginning, in the previous cabinet, and it builds no longer four, but many times slower. When will we have this facility that prevents the free entry of illegals into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? There's no answer! Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to you: in maximum proximity to it, when there are heavy terrains and other specific conditions. What are the conditions? And are we talking about less resources, less money than taxpayers?! There's a contradiction. It is built four times more expensive, now there is an amendment in the Law. "It is built economically appropriate, but within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues, there remains an area that is Bulgarian.. ours, and it is free to pass, to enter, and then a completely different legislation begins to apply. He is a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. He has crossed the state border. I appeal and wonder to the colleagues of the Patriotic Union for what reason they replicate and are about to be written in the Law in this way. Colleagues, this is about Bulgarian land for foreigners to enter, and you are giving this opportunity?! Sorry, you were only supporting the government. You are against the upcoming elections, otherwise you are with Boyko Borisov. Let's think about statehood, about homeland, about the territory of Bulgaria! I call on you to reconsider your vision and decision and to reject this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u72	Aren't there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u73	Well, they don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, those who are reasonable and believe that they will vote to move to a vote. Obviously, whatever we offer, they'll be against it. I would like to ask you colleagues: is there any one of you who has not walked any highway and any road in Bulgaria? I assure you that when you have a large pool with many rocks this time you will never pass along the ridge of the mountain, you will bypass it from the side, and where as a facility could be built much cheaper and much easier. If you have a huge gulf, well the road will not go through the gulf, and if it is necessarily necessary because of this gulf, either for a river, or for a gorge, or for something to have a bridge, the narrowest part is sought where it is convenient to build this road. Have you ever seen a path that goes straight from point A to point B? There isn't one. The fence, the physical route is down. It is not subject to change. I just want to ask: if we build the fence 10, 20, 30 meters inwards this was abandoning Bulgarian territory, and since we are commenting on this border, does it mean that everything is Bulgarian to the Bosporus or that Turkey has retreated its territories? And since the people who are speaking are mostly from the sea, should I ask you: in the 12-mile zone, did you see poles 300 meters each and a fence stretched to guard the Bulgarian territorial waters? I don't think there's anything we can do with buoys and the refugees will pass. I apologize, as rivers cannot be fenced through the middle, and the sea cannot be fenced through the middle, even though you have other ideas. It is normal to do this facility in a way that really protects Bulgaria, has nothing to do with the Bulgarian territory building this temporary facility, but is done in the most convenient place so that it can happen now when necessary. In Hungary, there were 300,000 people who wanted to enter their territory. They were either unable to raise their hands and think about what it would once be or immediately build the fence. They took the unemployed, they took the military, they took everything they could, they took it out, and they built the fence. It was a very funny fence compared to ours, but it managed to prevent that 300 grand from getting in. They've solved the problem for the moment. They pushed that wave away, saved their country from the raid. Now they can make any facility, if it's from a pyramid to a pyramid, if it's high, with helicopters, with gold, with perimeter guards, with three meters of concrete, who wants what they want, if they have to, and a moat they'll probably do. When it was the important moment, they were able to build the fence. Isn't now for us the important moment from Malko Tarnovo to the sea, where we have the most difficult stretch, even more that winter is coming, to be able to make these bypass roads, to make this facility as direct as possible, and it will come out cheaper, and it has nothing to do with the physical route of the border? I apologize, but the physical route is very, very long ago determined. Once again, I give you an example: when you play with a fence and there is no fence on the Turkish side, does that mean that they do not love their country, do not keep it or have abandoned it? No, they wouldn't give us three feet, and we wouldn't ask for one. To the sea, we have no fence, does that mean that we have abandoned our entire territory? Well, we didn't abandon her, she's still ours, and we're protecting her. Let's move on to the vote. They will look for any reason not to complete this facility so that at the first two, three, ten thousand refugees would want votes of trust and so on. I do not want to have refugees unsanitary in Bulgaria because the money that should go for my mother, for my children, for health care, for insurance, I will have to give them to people I neither invited nor wanted nor have the opportunity to look at them, and I will be forced to look at them. To build the facility as quickly as possible, not to allow these people to come here unimpededly to us, to do as the Hungarians do, I regret that for the second time I refer to them are not the best example, but they are a successful example of how to work in times of crisis. We are in a crisis, the fence can only be completed if it takes the nearest physical route from Malko Tarnovo to the sea. Let's do it as we can, not think about how it should be. Examples of many. If someone is against fences, against security equipment, to go to America or to go on TV and see America defending themselves from Latin America with perimeters, with fences, with tunnels, with helicopters, with mines, with sensors, because for them it is important that they welcome to the checkpoint that crossed the border illegally, the first time they repatriate it, the second time they go to prison for five years. I don't see why we shouldn't be as good Democrats as the best democracy in the world. The physical route has nothing to do with the fence track. It's a temporary facility, it's convenient, that's where it can happen. Whoever didn't go down a road once on a road to see that it's not a perfect right, regardless of the precinct, he's the one who's gonna say that the fence can't be. I'm repeating again. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Until November 10, the facility also did not always match the physical route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A line? There are three lines. First Mr. Bayraktarov made a request for a reply. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] He raised his hand at the speech, and said: "A line. Let's respect each other. Then you are entitled to a line, Mr. Merdjanov and Mr. Yankov, in order to raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Dimitrov, I take the floor for a reply because you were not sufficiently comprehensive and accurate in one part of your speech. You set a very good example with the 12-mile zone, but you should actually specify that during the management of BSP Bulgaria was threatened to lose a small part of its territorial waters, precisely in the southeastern part of the Bulgarian territorial waters. Secondly, you should emphasise that this text gives us the opportunity to protect ourselves from a vicious practice that is already a fact on the part of the BSP. I hardly need to remind you that they built about 35 kilometers of fence. [[Applause by MP Krasimir Yankov]] Which, when the first wind blew and fell. It is important for them to build such facilities that when the wind blows, fall. The third thing you should specify for those who don't understand this matter is that they think we should also build facilities to protect our airspace, because we have boundaries there too. That's their thinking, and that's why I'm taking a line to make you more comprehensive when you clarify these important questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the second line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that there are many specialists in building the fence, only that I want to vaporize your enthusiasm, colleagues, and to tell you that this fence, to our delight or unfortunately, makes sense only for the Ministry of Agriculture, because it will prevent the passage of herbivorous animals, that is, the Bulgarian livestock farmers will be protected from possible infections and especially with foot-and-mouth disease.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u79	It's not too small.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u80	It's not small, it's not small, but it might be the real purpose of this fence. Not the Patriotic Front, BSP left Bulgaria first in this room supported the efforts of the government then and encouraged, and gave its support. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] As for blowing the wind, I advise you to go to the border a little bit more often than on TV and take credit for which you have no reason. In short, the fence does not solve the problem of refugees and the refugee wave. It is becoming easier and easier to overcome, and that is why many data, many facts, especially in recent months. So it would be right to be a little more careful about building this facility. Of course, the Law on Construction in the Area is sufficiently well oriented in this regard. I believe that in this case the offer the importer has made is reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Third line please, Mr. Iankov. Although at the same time I gave the line to you, Mr. Dedev wanted a line. Would you like a statement, perhaps? [[Reply by National Representative Stefan Dedev.]] Yes, thank you. [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] Mrs. Tasheva, a statement? [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] You don't have a line anymore, that's a third line. Here you go, Mr. Yankov, your word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you don't seem to be reading the text. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Simeonov, and you don't even listen to the lines we have on you. Don't read the lyrics! If the thesis with which you came out and made a statement was the one you are defending, then you would pay attention to the particular text What examples do you give by highway, by other borders?! We're talking about an obstruction facility that supports security at the state border. And this enthusiasm, with which you defend the text, clearly shows for your commitment to conceal that so far this obstruction facility has not been built, concealing the inaction of Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and clearly you are part of the redistribution of these large amounts that are being invested in this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u83	Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u84	Why is it Dimitrov...?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u85	Procedure?! You're right in the manner of conduct. Come on in if you want, after the back. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Because in the public domain is known Emil Dimitrov, and that you call him Simeonov, he is not offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u86	It's okay, it's okay. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I think it's made sense many times. I said the road so they could understand it, because the other one doesn't understand it. If I had said that blue tongue, foot-and-mouth disease, animals come in and so on, it would help them, even better. It'll help, really. They gave you an example that there is no fence on the sea, and as you can see, we have not given up our marine territories. We don't have a fence, we don't give up air. And the rest of Turkey also has no fence, and it has not given up territory, no one wants them, but with Syria it makes a fence and it is very large, concrete, at an accelerated pace. God willing, we can do it! And with regard to who was late, who had done, my duties and opportunities here are to help this process go faster. And if you look at last year's decision to start the fence and change the legislation, in order for these facilities to go in a particular order, I am the importer. When Prime Minister Borisov here was saying about the problem, if we start according to the usual procedure, until September, October we will not be able to be ready. With Mr. Tsvetanov and Daniel Kirilov, immediately with Christian Mitev, we made an offer and it was supported by everyone to pass in special order and as you can see the fence is done. I mean, what's up to us to do as fast as we can, we've done it. And what's up to you to do as slowly as possible, you're also putting effort into it. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u87	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov-Simeonov, to calm Mr. Yankov. Mr. Dedev, you have the floor to speak. Mrs. Tasheva, do you see that you intend to speak or will you wait for a line of speech? [[Reply from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] You want a statement. I'm recording you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In a large part of the speeches here, we can see that there is a fictional dispute and a fictional one. I think it is clear to all of us that the line of the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria for those who do not know is defined 1919 along the water section of the different mountains through which the border passes, or along the talvega of rivers. All the rest that has been built over the years inside the country is facilities that support border guards. The Klon, which you talked about years ago, had a signal blocking function, only that it was turned to Bulgaria and did not give the Bulgarian citizens the right to leave it. That's the truth. Now the facility we're debating here is also being built to assist border guards. Of course it has some capacity, Mr. Iankov. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There is a capacity, which means that it will prevent not only animals, but also people, normal people who want to emigrate, who want to cross the border, albeit in an illegal way. The only way, Mr. Yankov, to make the border so that it can't be crossed is to mine it. I'm guessing that's not what you BSP's offering. I'm telling you, the obstruction facility is helping the Border Patrol authorities guard the border. Surveillance cameras are also installed, alarm devices are installed. All of this is a complex of the practice in the Ministry of Interior system. I think it's pointless to keep arguing about this. And the Ministry is doing its job, and the colleagues who... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Of course they're doing their job.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u89	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u90	And the border guards are guarding their border, and this is, of course, an engineering facility that costs money. Of course there's a trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. A line of speech? [[Noise and lines. A line from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva.]] Mrs. Tasheva, do you have a line? Line. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva. You had a line on the previous one, and now I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u92	Colleagues, I very much ask all those who wish to give their views on such a crucial issue, first, to read the directive of the European Council Directive No 33 of 2013. It is dated 26 June 2013. ♪ Laying down stands for the reception of applicants for international protection...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u93	In English, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u94	...which sets out the standards for admission of applicants for international protection. Read the Dublins, too. It doesn't matter what gear you put a meter away from the territory. If he steps on Bulgarian territory, he may be 10 cm from the furrow, he has the right to apply for international protection, and you cannot do anything, nor have you done so far. They arrive here with the addresses of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, friends of refugees, the representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees and from there it cannot be returned if it is to be... Once again, I've been on the furrow, with one foot in Bulgaria, with the other foot in Turkey, it's so wide. [[shows]] If he steps in there, he knows his rights. He comes up with a license with addresses and lawyers' names. That is, as well as observing with cameras, with sensors, including those that are placed in the ground, the seismic, supposedly different whether an animal comes or a person, all of this is in vain, he has stepped on Bulgarian territory. The fence must be built along the very furrow not more than 10 cm from it. Read your directive, read your Dublins and then deal with this so important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. Second line. "The People's Representative Krasimir Yankov. Will there be a third one? [[Heckling]] The third line will then be Mr. Belemezov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dedev, I take the opportunity to replicate you in the part: the Ministry of Interior is doing its job and at the same time there are voluntary citizens of ours who at the border hold crossings. Like Dinko, was he from Yambol? [[Heckling]] Dinko from Yambol wants to be Boyko Borisov. Do you answer the question: "Why? " Why are they staying illegally crossed and unregistered at the exit border with Serbia, with Romania? Because the Ministry of Interior is doing his job?! Why is there a raid in Sofia with over a hundred detainees? Because the Ministry of Interior is providing protection for our state border?! This is about the obstruction of a facility to support the work of Border Police, but at the state border. If you want, you can build such a facility around Sofia and it will still hinder, only it will not be at the state border. I therefore object to the concrete text and call on: Members of Parliament, do not so support the proposed text! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u97	Here's a third line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, and in the speech I have made before and in the rejoinder to my fellow Members who have replicated me, I believe that I have put forth reasonable, serious arguments as to why such a proposal should not be accepted. I also asked the question: if we are looking for the easier way, let's do it to the nearest settlement and completely isolate sections of 5-10-15 km near our state border. If such a proposal is accepted, it seems to me that very soon we will also see a change in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which could be in the following order: The Bulgarian army conducts military action only when there are light terrains and other specific conditions and/or proven technical and economic appropriateness. It is deprived of any political sense when we propose such serious measures concerning national security and national sovereignty, to look at them with ease, to look for the easy option. And let us not forget that very recently elections were held in Germany and the German public voted against governance, at least because they believe they are not dealing effectively with the management of the refugee crisis. Serious issues that require serious, responsible and difficult decisions, not light solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Those who have spoken are almost impossible. First, the Ministry of Interior is doing its job and Border Police is doing it, but with this parameter and this financial resource they have. If you want, Mr. Yankov, to support the work of the Ministry of Interior, vote for example a larger budget for the Ministry. [[BSP LB.]] You are proposing, but this is within the framework of the possible national budget. Secondly, the facility that so much is being talked about is a pointless story. I told you: the border furrow defines the borders of Bulgaria, whether the facility will be in the 300-meter zone, in which it is determined that it can be placed or in the 30km border zone.. can not be built such a facility to Sofia, because it will be illegal. Any kind of means used to guard the border shall assist the Border Patrol authorities. Everything else is pointless talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Dedev. The word for procedure has the popular representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u102	It's a personal explanation! Mr. Glauchev, personal explanation! [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u103	In replica and duplicate mode how to address you by making a replica?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u104	You're right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure to end the debate. I think the reason is extremely simple. It's obvious that the BSP colleagues, no matter how much they're told, won't understand. They will also not understand that there is an economic appropriateness, because every year the Bulgarian state pays 10-12 million only for preventive measures for the protection of foot-and-mouth disease. They will not understand that thanks to this foot-and-mouth disease territory of Strandzha Mountain was depopulated, which is also a matter of national security, as these people were left without a livelihood. They won't understand that just saving those 10 12 million returns the value of the built security facility. So I propose a procedure to end the debate, as nothing new will be heard and please be supported by fellow Members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. On the contrary, the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think the issue is serious enough to continue the debate on it. This is not about amending the Animal Case Act and foot-and-mouth disease and other such things. It is about conservation of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is about that everyone who has stepped on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is already in this territory and from now on all directives and regulations enter into force. It is about building a meaningful facility that prevents people from entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, whether it will be in front or behind the fence. So I suggest that we continue the debate so that we can really come to a sensible solution. It's not about whether or not we're giving up territory, it's about protecting borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debates on this paragraph. Vote 87 MPs: 71 against 15, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 27 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 12, no abstentions. Paragraph 27 of the Commission report has been adopted. For the procedure Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am doing a procedure under art. 80, para. 1 to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and the physical infrastructure by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u110	Please vote on the proposal made. 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u112	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 28 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. Paragraph 28 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u113	Paragraph 29. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 135 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u114	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 15 against 3, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 29. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 4. The Commission's amendment to § 29 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u115	Paragraph 30. A proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs to drop § 30. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 30: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140b al. Three down. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 140c: Art. 140c. The positions to which they may be appointed, the requirements for taking up the post, training, the passage of the service and the manner of exercise of their powers shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u116	Statements? First has the word Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov, then Krassimir Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in essence, this paragraph, which we propose to reject, is proposed the return of security activities to the Ministry of Interior. Unlike a previous period, it will be carried out by persons of employment known in time as..................................................................................................... In addition to the overall bankruptcy of this proposal, we believe that it is necessary to take into account what image the state will ultimately create through these employees. In their main functions, they will have to welcome and send Bulgarian and foreign citizens through border crossings, or who will carry out border control at a green border in order to deter legally infiltrating refugees. In this regard, we propose that § 30 be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court! There'll be a break in a few minutes. If anyone needs it sooner, they can use it now. Please take your seats in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! The Law on the Ministry of Interior states clearly what and how should be done by the Ministry of Interior. However, this is not observed to date, further changes are requested and the law in force on the Ministry of Interior is currently being violated with the appointment and proclamation, both in a number of statements of the Minister of Interior and in the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry of Interior in § 30, namely the appointment of persons working in the employment relationship of the Ministry. This is also done now if you look at the Ministry's website, but it is done in violation of the Act in force on the Ministry of Interior. There are clearly described both the activities that can be carried out by the Ministry of Interior and the employees who are entitled to carry out them. What are they doing in the department? They appoint people with secondary education under the Labour Code of Work at the Ministry of Ministry of Defence to guard the premises of the Ministry of Interior. And so far, violations, at least at first glance, three times. Firstly, the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act and the Rules of Implementation of the Law are violated, where it is said that the objects of the Ministry of Interior can be protected only by persons with police powers such as the officers of the Security Police and Gendarmerie. Moreover, in the Classifier of the Ministry of Interior posts published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the field of persons with police powers, the office of the Ministry of Interior is relevant to the Young Police Inspector, there is no such position in the chapter for persons working in the labour force. These persons appointed under the Labour Code dress, equip, pass medical examinations and everything else from the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Madam Minister, you said only three months ago that there wasn't enough 25 million more. lv. For the policeman's clothing? Why? Not to mention that these persons are employed on a salary plus 5% for work at the Ministry of Interior. In fact, by reading their official requirements and what they will have to do, it strongly reminds the requirements for private security guards of a paid employment contract with certain specific requirements and specialized clothing to protect sites, and they are also the Ministry of Interior. Is the Minister, through these violations and the attempt to validate and pass a Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act in its part of § 30, not trying to prepare his recovery of the vicious practice of the Ministry of Interior's commercial activity in the protection of objects against payment, subsequently transferring them to work hidden in the newly voted state enterprise? BMW, which quietly returned to the ranks of the Ministry of Interior, has already started making courses for safe handling of weapons for security guards. It is not irrelevant to the Minister of Interior's statement before the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order that the security contracts must be paid. Where does that money go, how much and how much are they going? What kind of reform are we talking about after all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. We will continue the discussions on this paragraph after the break. It's 11:30. At 12:00 we continue with parliamentary control of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister and the other two deputy prime ministers are out of the country. The questions will be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. And if we finish early, we'll continue with the Homeland Security Act. We're interrupting for a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u121	We'll proceed with the meeting, and then we'll have blitz control. Do you have any questions from the GERB Parliamentary Group for Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova? No question. From your parliamentary group, are you Mr. Ivanov? Come in for a question. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! This question will be addressed to Mrs. Bachvarova. She's the only deputy prime minister in the room. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in all the confused puzzle of the foreign policy led by your government, the most uncertain and frightening element are made in dark agreements for the alleged overcoming of the refugee crisis and the unstoppable flows of illegal immigrants in Bulgaria. But this is also related to the policy you have led, of course, in the internal policy plan, despite all the efforts, I stress again, which are taking place in this direction. There are thousands of illegal immigrants passing through our territory unimpeded, which is evident from the inquiries drawn up in your office, from which a part can be captured where inside the country, where the exit is. How many of them have not entered the statistics your ministry does not report, but it is also clear that a frightening number of immigrants enter our home unimpeded, compete in Sofia mainly, walk as owners in the center, around the Women's Market... Lion Bridge........................................................................... The situation is clear: firstly, a steady stream of migrants who change their profile from Syrian refugees from the war to Afghan, Pakistani and Iraqi youth citizens who are difficult to handle. Only for statistics were captured yesterday, as far as the media know, 33 people in a car inside the country. How many others there is is not clear. Secondly, overcrowded refugee centres, which residents leave at any time without even receiving the necessary status of international protection, with more than 9,000 people being returned to the border, according to Serbian authorities. And thirdly, redirecting flows from the territory of Turkey migrants to the Bulgarian-Greek border, receiving data that various organizations are prompting migrants from Greece to head towards Bulgaria, including promises of material stimulation. On top of that, you are trying to plant in our country a sense of national responsibility from the fact that our Prime Minister has learned to beg for results from the shuttles between Ankara, Berlin, Bratislava and Brussels that are unfamiliar to us. But our question is precisely this: what the so-called already famous Post pigeon has brought, as the Prime Minister said, is quoting it, or what is the government policy for fictitious distribution and absorption of 160 million allocated. Euros. What are these funds for? Are they for completion of a partition facility, for technical equipment, money for the Bulgarian policemen who are squandering along the border, or for materializing the enthusiastic consent that Bulgaria will become a huge refugee camp, a buffer zone where those who do not want them in Europe will be accommodated anymore? Because the decree adopted by the Council of Ministers No 208 of 12 August 2016 precisely regulates the terms and conditions under which refugees will be permanently accommodated on the territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u123	One minute you're delaying time, it's at the expense of lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u124	Will you lie to us in this answer or will you tell us the bitter truth? We're really asking for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u126	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Ivanov, I am ready to answer all the questions and I think the BSP Parliamentary Group needs some clarification of the nature of the problem that we are facing because I see that you are using it in your election campaign. I think it's nationally irresponsible. Everywhere, every government in Europe and the world is dealing with this issue with all responsibility, because I do not know if you know, perhaps not, as you do not know how the Mexican fence was built, because the debate I attended showed complete incompetence on this issue. But I won't answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u127	Please answer the question you are asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u128	Yeah, 240 million worldwide are refugees right now. This is a global process that cannot be stopped by any government and the international community, as in the debates of the General Session of the United Nations only about ten days ago adopted a Declaration Memorandum, guaranteeing the rights of refugees, those who want to change their place of residence. This is the form of part of the Bulgarian nation, in many European countries there are such communities that live, and it is therefore a fundamental principle in respect of the rights of people who flee, seek protection or want to change their place of living. This is the general context of this problem.. what we do in Europe, with European policy, what we do in Bulgaria... to control this process so that it does not create additional problems in its implementation. We have no right to refuse, and if we do, we will be subjected to extremely acute criticism by the international community, the right to status and the protection of no human being seeking protection for his life. All the government's efforts are currently aimed at succeeding in controlling the process, first by registering everyone who crosses our border. This is considered one of the successful models in Europe. Tomorrow this will be told to you at a high level by European representatives who come here specifically to Bulgaria to appreciate what the Bulgarian state has done in this direction. This is where the new European Border and Coast Guard Service will be opened tomorrow, by Captain Andreevo. We are holding them in order to register them in order to verify for each of them whether there is a reason to obtain refugee status, what assistance there is, and if there is no.. this was our position at the UN meeting, which I expressed, if there is no such right, to be legally returned to the country from which it came. Those are the rules we follow. I'm out of time, but I still have a lot to talk about. If you want in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u129	I want to make a distinction for the refugee centers. These are temporary centres where refugees remain while the procedure for obtaining their status is ongoing. These aren't permanent accommodation centers. We have strict control there. In order to follow the procedures, Bulgaria may have been the only country, and now in other countries additional interviews are being conducted with the people to determine who they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u130	One minute you're running out of time, dear Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u131	The agreement that was signed with the United States gives us the opportunity to verify and establish the identity of these people so that we can treat them the way international law requires, respecting their rights. Very accurate information about the 160 million. The euros we expect to receive, I gave publicly. I can express it here, from the stands. I think I have a question for Friday. We are very responsible and very grateful for European solidarity, which will give us the opportunity to put our forces in a much better position to safeguard our border.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I expected to hear from you something more concrete, because to tell you the truth, no one here is here, nor is anyone who contacts us, has an idea of what application forms have been sent and exactly what these funds are expected for. I don't know if I should trust you, Deputy Minister Gunev, or the adopted document by the Council of Ministers, which says that you will cooperate with the municipalities, will oblige them to submit applications to accept refugees. After all, the question is that you answer precisely and clearly from this tribune: shall we become a buffer zone? Shall we accommodate additional refugees? What happens to the Dublin agreements? Will those who have left the country be returned to us, but are they registered here? What is the position of the Bulgarian government in this direction at all? Clearly, the border is not guarded well enough. But these people are invading. Right, you capture a lot of them, you register them, but they're moving on. At some point they will come back, and what will we do? We will accommodate them in the Bulgarian villages, in municipalities where there is really a demographic problem? People want to know this thing because the need and need is much greater with regard to the service of our border police, their material security, the pay of overtime, technical security, and at the same time we get conflicting information from both you and your deputies what will happen. It is very important and we want to get a clear answer here: will we become a huge refugee camp? That's what we want to find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Let me remind you again that the issues in blitzcontrol are about a common policy. Mrs. Bachvarova, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u135	I will be responsible for the common policy and will continue with the lecture. Some are policies and actions on external border security, others are policies and actions on the integration of those refugees who have decided to stay in the country. Bulgaria is committed together with all other countries to re-locating 1300-1400 refugees and 100 people under Turkey's resettlement mechanism. This is a commitment of all European countries. In the case of the municipalities that you mention, this is the development of a subsequent integration mechanism that happens in separate municipalities, single number of people who will go at their will, signed a contract, that they accept the conditions for integration. The whole process within two years will be funded by the European Commission well enough. Payments for each of these cases will start to come after all the documents are arranged. Accepting the condition to learn in the language, to find work, to stay to work where they are. We have given the opportunity not to concentrate them in one place, and the municipalities, according to their judgment, may want bakers, people in agricultural work to choose and do so. This is the common European policy. As for the aid we are expecting, there is no contradiction in what we are talking with Deputy Minister Gunev. The total amount is 160 million. lv. Of that, 124 million. lv. or 80% are measures to improve border security. Twelve per cent will go for measures related to refugees - illegal migrants who are already in Bulgaria. From 2 October we can start paying all the costs, including gasoline, employee salary, current costs for the support of refugees here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u136	Guide yourself to the conclusion, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u137	I will tell you quite specifically the overall distribution regarding the maintenance of refugees and illegal migrants: 14 million. lv. are for staff support, food, translation, security, medical, psychological assistance, current costs; 5 million euros are for moving into a new home of one of the homes of the State Agency for Refugees from Sofia because it is in too bad condition. He'll be taken out, but we haven't decided where. We're doing checks. Yes, indeed, Mrs. Nino has asked me a question. We have to be completely irresponsible if we don't check where this can happen and if we don't know all the resources we have. That's what we're doing right now. If we don't, you have every reason to criticize us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u139	Two million for the voluntary return of 1,000 refugees to their countries of origin. The centres in question that you are asking about are three sites which, if necessary and a very large wave of refugees come from Turkey and need to be located somewhere, will be in temporary-type wagons at these sites so that we do not allow them to move independently and that we cannot control them. Your whole thesis, listening to what you're saying, suggests that in practice you are defending the policy of allowing all refugees to walk independently and willingly throughout the country. This is gonna be a disaster! What we want to do is have a good organization, control, more centers of the closed type, so we can control the processes. Here's the fundamental difference. When you criticize, say what you want for this policy after all, because from your interpretation it is understood: let us let them go and they go where they should go. We're setting up emergency centers to avoid compromise in procedures, to continue the interviews. The easiest way is to shorten the procedure and let them have their right to an outside address and have them find a place to live. We don't want to do this, we keep them longer. That is why we are making closed centers so that we can check their status as best as possible until the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No question. From the Reformation Block? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The issues with migration, refugee centers and so on are important, but after a month there are elections in Bulgaria. What is the readiness of the Ministry of Interior to ensure public order during the presidential elections? The sectional committees have already been appointed. The CEC is doing its job. However, we hear nothing from the government, specifically from the Ministry of Interior, what measures you are taking to ensure public order during the presidential elections. Another year or during other elections, months before that, headquarters were created that explained to the population how public order would be provided, and now we hear nothing. Please state what measures are you taking to ensure public order during the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u143	Dear Mr. Atanasov, the measures we have planned and already carried out for insurance, on the one hand, public order during the elections, protection of the electoral process and preventing violations of the political rights of citizens are the same as they were last year during the local elections. There's a headquarters at the Ministry of Interior, and we're working with the D.A.'s office. We're taking preliminary measures. Just a few days ago, we held a national meeting to which we gave detailed explanations to the district directors. We're stepping up the measurements. We have included "Inspectorat", " Homeland Security" to perform their functions and to be ready on election day to work together with our employees. I think we are at a very high level of readiness to fulfil our obligations in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. For a line, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You answer me very generally, Mrs. Bachvarova, which tells me that readiness is not at the level that is necessary. Take at least Sotir Tsatsarov and Dimitar Georgiev to see the people that you are trying to do. I'm worried for a reason because there's a very serious malfunction. Many employees are committed to protecting the border, at all the problem of refugees, migrants and so on, not to get to a situation where there is not enough police staff to cover the sections. I'm not telling you this thing by any chance. I'm in contact with people in the system and there are concerns about that. Because each section must be taken over for security 24 hours before the election day and then until the election papers are handed over, there must be security. Is there enough composition for that? And the other extremely important issue on which nothing is being said... what measures are you taking to combat the purchase of votes? It's a big vice. I would like to tell you that in the local elections that you are talking about, that you will now, in the same system, secure the process, there have been very disturbing signals about the participation of your employees in the election process of the country of a political force. We all know who she is. There are several areas. Of course, one wonders to whom to send the signal, because your employees, along with the prosecutors, were involved in these trials. So say something about this alarming phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u147	Mr. Atanasov, I had decided not to take PR and photos with one of the main duties of the Ministry of Interior. We work with the D.A. very well. We use all operational tools to prevent the purchase and sale of votes. And we have taken the appropriate measures to provide the necessary number of employees with a solution to this headquarters, which leads the situation around the borders and will place additional army forces within the framework of the agreement we have concluded with the Bulgarian Army to provide the necessary number of employees during elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u149	Dear Minister, honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question, albeit banal, as you know, will be linked once again to the protective partition facility that is being built along the border with the Republic of Turkey. I am aware of the specific and close tasks and deadlines, but I would like to hear from you: do you think that the fence will be completed by the end of this year? And as a sub-question: are you aware that 10 km in the territory of Burgas region and 12 km in Haskovo, as well as some of the roads in Yambolska are not completed, which is also financially unsecured with an amount of about 20 million. lv.? These are my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u151	Dear Mr. Simeonov, thank you for this question, as I would like to thank you for the way in which you exercise parliamentary control over one of the government's activities. I think we can point it out as an extremely good form of parliamentary control, cooperation between the legislative and executive authorities on such a matter. The total length of the Bulgarian-Turkish border is 259 km. The length of the fence, which is designed and will be built, is 229. From it, 30 km was built during the previous government. Designed by district governors last year are the remaining 199.8 km. For them, the funding allocated last year and this year is for 180 km. From them we have completed 124 km, and 128 km of roads are already built. I would like to note that the difference between the first part of the fence is now in the construction of the accompanying roads, which greatly supports our response during incidents and maintenance of the facility itself. In the process of construction are currently...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u152	There were so many of them before.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u153	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u154	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u155	I'm not answering any lines from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u156	That's not the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u157	In the process of construction are 56 km, which are currently being built and I hope that in the next perhaps one or two months it will be completed. Who has had the opportunity, I know that there are not many people to see the limit on top and this terrain on top, knows how difficult this terrain is to reach because there the slope reaches up to 60 degrees sometimes. It's very difficult for both technology and people to get there. I have been informed, Mr. Simeonov, that construction is pending after funding is granted, meaning we have no funding for 20 km. Of them in Haskovo along the river Tundzha are 11 km and in Burgas along the river of Rezovska are 9 km. Coming up, we're expecting additional funding. I hope the Ministry of Finance will react quickly and we can start building this section as well. But what the data of Frontex and their main conclusions show, the source is not the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior, is that there is a definite shift of flows to places where there is no fence built, from the places where it already exists. I hope we'll have a tangible effect soon. The main part of illegal emigration is currently precisely in those areas that will soon be completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. There's no line, and there's no line. Do the Bulgarian Democratic Centers of the People's Union have a question? Here you are.. the People's Representative Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u159	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is: what are the expectations of the Ministry of Interior in relation to the possible creation, I hope, with the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, of the so-called Security Officer status? Will these changes allow small towns to strengthen police presence?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u161	Dear Mr. Petrov, yes, our very strong expectation, this is also the motive for our proposals for the changes to the new Ministry of Interior Act, is the employment contract appointment of security workers who have already had police powers to give us the opportunity to compensate for the deficit in the number of the Ministry of Interior. I hope that with the adoption of the Law we will have the opportunity to include these employees also by presence so that we can prevent some of the manifestations of domestic crime. Moreover, I think that with this decision we will give a chance to many people who still feel in good shape, who are already retired, to join the Ministry of Interior and to help in such a situation where each of the other countries increases the number of their services and police. Thousands measure this increase is a decision of the governments supported by the parliaments. Right now, this is how we're trying to solve the problem. And something else, this enables us to react very quickly because these people have already acquired skills and do not need to go through the nine-month training process. Of course, their skills will be checked out so they can get involved. This will release a very large number of current employees in this position who will take on police functions and get involved much more actively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Would you like to use a line? No. Therefore, there is no duplicate. From Attack? There's no one from Ataka. Do you have any questions from Alternative for Bulgarian Revival? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Monday, October 3rd, was the official opening of the new school year at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. All of us who were there at the invitation of the Rector of the Academy, Senior Commissioner Assoc. Dr. Nedelcho Stoychev, we were able to see for myself some very important things. In addition to the messages that have been expressed, including by you, Deputy Prime Minister, we have been able to see the new students of the Academy, young people, sufficiently inspired, motivated, knowing where they are going and what they can expect, ready to work, train and serve our society and homeland. Young people who are ready to face the new challenges of new times concerning internal security. I would like to ask you: at what stage is the reform in the sector of Homeland Security, conducted by the Ministry of Interior not only during the period when you manage the office, including in a period of two or three years, perhaps since 2014? I am referring explicitly to this period, as more than seven amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act have been adopted until then. What stage do you think the reform is at? What could reform provide these young, motivated, built professionals from the Ministry of Interior Academy at the times when the acquired knowledge is ready to turn them into practical experience? How does the Ministry of Interior, and even manage to do it well enough, motivate their efforts, support them constantly [[the President signals that time has run out]] and are we ready to vote their trust in order to maintain order and public security in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u165	Dear Mr. Belemezov, the topic of reform is the debt is also the topic of the motivation of the employees in the Ministry of Interior. I have always understood it as a motivation that has its roots in the nature and results of the work that is being carried out. This understanding of mine is a little different from what is usually the loudest. It has to do with privileges, with the extra advantages given to employees, but I can't blame anyone for that. As a minister, what I want to do, share with the Rector of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, is that we need to update the process of education at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, to start developing new specialties that will be adequate to the dangers, to the situations in which employees will fall. Therefore, in the first place, it requires not only better technical equipment, but better technological state of the Ministry of Interior systems, a better opportunity to include the intellectual potential of the employees in order to be able to work in an environment in which others work, mainly our partner services. In the lines of special services, the police should work people who can work with information, they can analyze, they can predict, they can handle anything that the modern world gives them as a technology opportunity mainly to be ahead. I think this is the strongest factor in the motivation of these young people. I very much hope that this will hardly happen in the next two or five years, ultimately in the Ministry of Interior to work people who really understand the responsibility to be the most progressive and technological and intellectual when they have to overcome modern risks and challenges.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. A line? You won't use it. Moving on to the second round of questions. Does GERB have any questions? I won't. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria a question? I won't. From the DPS? I won't either. From the Reformation Block? I won't. From the Patriotic Front? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is on this occasion. It has long been known that these centers for illegal immigrants located in the cities in Sofia are three in the town of Ovcha kupel. There are protests. By the way, two days ago, I attended the second such protest in the town of Harmanli, where people directly said: "We do not want any camp, even of an indoor type, because our houses are already of an indoor type. We don't dare go out on the streets. There are problems, beatings, violence between illegal immigrants themselves, which cause concern in people. That's exactly what my question is dictated by. At the time when these centers were planned, it was probably about families with children, as was the case in the Ovcha coupé. They were trained, gave them the opportunity to learn a trade, learn Bulgarian. Later, however, in all these centers, most of them are lonely men, and as it lasts too long, it creates tensions in cities like Sofia and Harmanli. I think it's not normal for Sofia's center to look like a little Beirut where people can't move quietly. My question is this: does the government and when do these centres for illegal immigrants be exported outside the settlements? Moreover, in terms of working with illegal immigrants, Bulgaria has received relevant financial opportunities from the European Union. To be honest with people, we need to be aware that this thing cannot go on forever and that there must finally be a programme to work on.. the immigrant camps to be taken out of the settlements so that people can live peacefully and not worry about their health, their property, their lives. That's my specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u169	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I see that the BSP immediately used my previous response to do their campaign and announced false things from what I said. No wonder they usually lie. A great subject to which we are very responsible. We can't limit the movement of the people placed in the centers. It's their right. We can't limit them once they get status. The first and most important condition is that they are registered. The funds currently allocated by the Commission will enable us to carry one of the centers in Sofia somewhere outside the city. We'll figure out who's the busiest. We're looking for the best option. This means the availability of infrastructure, good location and possible accommodation conditions. Our efforts are aimed at creating a better order in the residence centres. We separate the family from the singles. Divide part of the rooms this is within our capabilities at the moment.. Which ones to be of the closed type, which ones to be of the open type. We have funds for three new sites, which I explained just now. We'll put temporary people in wagons if we have an oversized refugee wave. These sites will be temporary residence centres and will have very strong security. We are looking for those who have already built fences so that we don't have to build them further so that we can carry out.............. all necessary procedures.................................................................... This is the best option at the moment to control the flow, not to rush the procedures and allow these migrants to exercise their right and go to external addresses. I mean, let's not think of these people as criminals. According to all international and global understandings, these are people in need that we are obliged to cooperate with. At the moment, despite the tension being created in the centers, going outside, I think they are trying to follow behavior that does not create additional problems. I hope this continues during the winter period. We will carry out our duties both to the Bulgarian citizens, first but also to our obligations in terms of the human rights of refugees. We are trying politically to negotiate their readmission, mainly in Afghanistan. A European Union Memorandum was concluded with Afghanistan. It's not an agreement. We work with international organisations for voluntary return. We have already returned some 500 people voluntarily to the countries of origin. This is serious political work that we are taking and we are going to do. We even have two million funds. euros for the voluntary return of these refugees. If necessary, some of them will be motivated by further training, which we will provide.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u171	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I understand your arguments, but I disagree with the argument that these people had more rights than Bulgarian citizens. According to the Bulgarian law, those who have crossed the Bulgarian border illegally committed a crime. The idea is not to imprison them in prisons, but to move these camps of an indoor type outside the territory of the settlements. It is an undisputed fact that there are many complaints from the residents of Sofia...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are many cases of prostitution with girls, hanging women, small or larger thefts of groceries from shops and supermarket chains. It's a routine. It creates tensions that can at some point be much more dangerous than worried that some European politician will accuse us of somehow violating these people's rights. From this point of view, thinking in perspective, and you will agree with me, there is no end to this emigrant crisis that is flooding Europe. At least for the next one or two years, no one can say that this will end. The accumulation of such people further in similar camps in cities such as Sofia and Harmanli will only create additional tensions. The argument that they should be taken out of the settlements does not in any way restrict their rights, because they can also move, only not on the streets of Sofia and look after the girls, but will move along the meadows of some former military unit. There are many where they will move in nature and not in the streets of Sofia. Otherwise, the most correct approach is that you said it by any means all illegal migrants from Afghanistan, Iraq and other places should be returned in time to the places where they came from. There are international agreements, there is also a Convention on Refugees of the United Nations, but it does not directly concern Bulgaria because we are not neighbours of a warring country. Therefore, the people who are here cannot be treated as refugees under this Convention. Also, these people have illegally crossed the Bulgarian-Turkish border. Therefore, we can afford a stronger policy in the interests of the calmness of Bulgarian society. That's my line to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. A hole? You won't use it. BSP left Bulgaria changed their mind and want to ask a question. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, a very relevant question. Of course, on it I will expect a general policy response, but it is extremely relevant. In our country, unfortunately, democracy is becoming more and more a form without content. Signatures for registration of initiative committees in the referendum were gathered. Many citizens have found that their signatures have been forged. A moment ago, the Central Election Commission said it was not competent to identify who committed these crimes because they were crimes! What is the policy of the government and your position on this issue? Will you undertake to establish legality, including on this issue, related to otherwise democratic procedures in Bulgaria? Otherwise, it comes out the way the CEC says it's not competent. Even journalists from leading media have been asking this question since this morning. It will appear that there are no mechanisms for implementing the laws in Bulgaria. My question to you is: what is the policy regarding the enforcement of the law and, in particular, if possible, in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Come in for an answer, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u175	Mr. Mikov, one important point: for me, democracy is not exhausted from content. If it's run out for you, that's another matter. We will use all the opportunities that the law gives us to check who organised these signatures, and if there is a signal of non-compliance, I hope that the journalist will do so as quickly as possible...........................we will have reason to do these checks and start them. They will be done as we have all checked for the incorrect registration of voters in some municipalities, which some people are currently complaining about, but have no reason to. So when we signal and argue enough, we're going to do these checks. That's politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, why do I say that democracy is exhausted from content? Here, you say to do it in writing. There are people living abroad for years. They put them in signatures here. People say, " What kind of state are we?• Will you ask them for a reasoned signal when people claim that they have not signed?! I'm asking you, there's Facebook, there's media, there's enough information. Let's start some work to prove that legality is really being applied and not as the Central Election Commission has said. That's why I'm telling you it's running out. The CEC says, "We don't have to check whether it's true will expressed. We're checking if there's a guy with that kind of attitude. Because it's the easiest thing to do, you put it in computers, and the subject is over. I hope that the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution will prove that the law is being applied and that democracy is really not empty of content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u178	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Next in a row is the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center People's Union - Do you have a question? You don't. From the Parliamentary Group of Ataka? They don't have a question either. Alternative for Bulgarian revival? They don't. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, we are done with today's parliamentary control. Thank you for your participation. We're continuing with the Homeland Security Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u179	She can stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u180	There's no way, unfortunately, I can't stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u181	Welcome for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Trenchev. The cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio should be stopped. We're done with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u182	Did they turn off the cameras to say I was abusing?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u183	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Declaration by the Reformation bloc Parliamentary Group on the decision to increase the funds for education and on the International Teacher's Day. The Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc greets Bulgarian teachers on the occasion of the International Teacher's Day. We support the efforts of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to place precisely the teacher at the centre of the ongoing major reform of pre-school and school education. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u185	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u186	Data on the state of the teaching profession are currently not encouraging. The average age of teachers is 52 years and up to 10 years half of Bulgarian teachers will be in retirement age. Only 6% are teachers under the age of 29. The budget choice of the last 25 years, to reduce and keep education costs at a low level, is one of the main reasons for the decline in educational results. Relatively low remuneration and low social status of teachers lead to a spiral of worsening educational results. In this sense, the request given yesterday by Prime Minister Borisov, after meeting with representatives of the trade unions, for an increase in teachers' salaries is good news for the whole Bulgarian society. It is a success for every Bulgarian citizen as a result of the care of the state for teachers, children and education. The increase in salaries was set as a political goal by the Minister of Education Mrs. Kuneva in June at the Master's Council and the conversion of education as a national priority was written in the coalition agreement for forming the government. We are pleased that, in addition to salaries, the demands for more funds to secure the Preschool and School Education Act in its part, inclusive education, modern information technologies, full-time organization and protected schools, as well as the transport and security of Bulgarian schools are met. The EUR 2223 million announced. lv. additionally represent the largest increase in the system in the last 10 years. They also coincide with the biggest educational reform since the beginning of the transition until now. Reform without money is impossible and we consider it our fulfillment of a reformist duty to defend this position. Education is a national priority that should help solve a number of other problems in the economy, demographic, national security, employment. Attempts with him to play pre-election, do not honor the political forces and it is necessary to find a common national consensus. The reform bloc will work hard to raise education to a first national priority and to achieve a sustainable political consensus on the objectives of education, reform of the sector, the status of the Bulgarian teacher and the quality of education. The reformist bloc will not allow attempts to stop reform to succeed and will work for dialogue between the political forces and their unity on this key national security policy, such as good education and the development of science in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. We continue with the second vote of the Ministry of Interior Act. Are there any statements on § 30? I'd like to ask the Commissioner's assistant if he could come. Do you have any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Abort the vote. Name check. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski-here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - absent Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here In addition they signed up: Alexander Nenkov, Ayhan Etem, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Manol Genov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Zhelyo Boychev, Nikola Hadjiyski, Mariana Todorova, Martin Ivanov and Atanas Tashkov, ten people. We have a quorum, we can move on. I again put to the vote a proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 16 against 20, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 19 against 31, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 67 against 8, abstention 4. Paragraph 30 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u188	There is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on the Academy of the Interior in principle and does not support it in the rest. Proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on the Academy of the Interior in principle and does not support it in the rest. Proposal from MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: With the status referred to in para. 1, t. 1 are also civil servants in: 1. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior, which performs teaching activities for the professional preparation of police bodies and bodies of fire safety and population protection; 2. Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, which directly controls the activities of the Ministry of Interior; 3. The Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior, which prepares a psychological analysis of operationally interesting persons and conducts criminal psychological research in pre-trial proceedings and in relation to the operational and search activities of the Ministry of Interior. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u189	Mr. Ivanov, I would ask you to read the proposals of Svetoslav Belemezov and Atanas Merdjanov so that MPs can find out which part is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u190	Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In 142, para 1, item 1 the following amendments are made: The Union shall be removed, instead of a comma, by adding after the words of the People's Protection and the authorities implementing the immediate activities under art. 84, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the lecturers in special disciplines at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and the CCCI on a list established by the Minister of Interior. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: To create § 30a: 30a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142, para. 1, t. 1 The Union is replaced by a comma and the authorities of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior are added after the words "Police authorities" and finally added to the "authorities of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior," who are conducting teaching activities of the police authorities and of the bodies of fire safety and protection of the population, as well as employees directly providing access to the emergency services through the National System.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, let me give you the reasons for our overall proposal, including that part where it is not supported. What we intend is to define the scope of the Ministry of Interior employees. We believe that it is extremely appropriate for representatives from the centres of specialization and vocational training to enter this circle, on the one hand. On the other hand, all those who carry out the immediate activity under art. 84, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the Ministry of Interior. In the course of this proposal, we have also managed to hold a number of meetings with professionals, trade unions that have alerted and very disturbing that the changes, if they do not include the employees of the Let me pay particular attention to the fact that there is currently a very serious failure there. If the provisions concerning employees of "112" will change, many other things will change, such as the mechanisms and criteria by which they are recruited, the ways by which their activities will be controlled and carried out. We will have a broken mechanism for the effectiveness of their activities. In this regard, we offer you to extend the scope quite defined by including, in addition to the centres of specialization and vocational training, the representatives of the 112 Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 15 against 27, abstention 42. The proposal is not accepted in this part. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, once again in the part not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 16 against 42, abstention 22. The proposal in the unsupported part of the Commission has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 31 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. Please vote § 31 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report has been adopted. Paragraph 31 by importer, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u194	Paragraph 31. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 31: (a) in point 2, the words 142, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 142, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 shall drop out; (b) point 3 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov in § 31, art. 143, t. Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "in the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by "in art." 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 142, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 142, para. 1, t. One and three. 3. In para. 4 after the word......................................................................................... 142, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 and para. 3.................................................................................. 4. The creation of para. 5. In the classification under para. 2 shall also determine the positions for civil servants under art. 142, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 5 against 8, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 8 against 8, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov is contained in the proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov, which we have already rejected, so it is also rejected. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which shall, after the Commission's support, become § 32. We are voting § 32 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 6. Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 7 the words "State employees" shall be replaced by the employees under art. 142, para. 1 and 3 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u197	Do you have any speeches, Members of Parliament? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 33 to 37 including, on the Commission's report. Vote 82 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 6. Paragraphs 33 to 37, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u198	Paragraph 37. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: ............................................................................... 2 is amended as follows: "2." Allinea 4 is canceled. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "State Service in the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by "State Employees under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3.................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The State Staff of Art. 1 and 2 shall be responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. 142, para. 1, t. 2 may be appointed to posts for civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 without a competition if they meet the requirements for taking up the respective position.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov. [[Reply.]] Is there a problem? Paragraph 37 reports Mr. Ivanov by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, we also want to make an additional editorial proposal and a correction. The first amendment is indeed an absolutely logical status of civil servants under the heading. 2 is governed by the Law on the Civil Service. The second amendment, we believe, is insufficiently sustained, as the administration is allowed to take up positions for police officers and firefighters, and vice versa is not actually settled. We believe that after the words.... by art....................................................................................... 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. The words "reverse" or possibly the other version of the text shall be added: "State officials under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 may be appointed to posts for civil servants under art. 142, para. 1, t. 2, without holding a contest, if they meet the requirements for taking up the position concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u201	What exactly are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u202	To include the additional sentence I read in...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u203	In para. 1, t. 1. Oh, yeah? We are looking at the Commission text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u204	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u205	Paragraph 38, t. 1 and go on........................................................................................................ 1 the words "State Service in the Ministry of Interior" shall be replaced by "State Employees under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 and vice versa you suggest. Oh, yeah? Let's add back up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u206	So that there can be proportionality in both directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u207	That's what you're suggesting? Yes, thank you. - What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: 3 against 5, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, as presented to you on the same by him. 70 MPs voted: 11 against 3, 56 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 38 on the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: 65, none, abstention 8. Paragraph 38 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u208	Paragraph 38 s of the proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u209	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 14 against 11 abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 39 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 3. Paragraph 39 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u210	Paragraph 39.. absolutely identical proposals: the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 39 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u211	We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 39 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to reject § 39 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u212	Paragraph 40 s of the proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 40 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u213	You have the floor. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It'll only take you two minutes, but it's extremely important that you hear this thing. You can see that there are a number of texts on this bill on which the proposals on the left, on the right and on the center coincide and are adopted by everyone. This speaks of the quality of the imported bill. However, this text is extremely important. There is also a match of proposals from left, right and GERB. This text, which has been proposed and will now be rejected by the plenary, concerns the powers of the Minister of Interior for the appointment of civil servants. This was proposed by the Minister of Interior, by the way, to entrust these powers to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. Under Law, the basic principles of the Law lay down that the Minister of Interior is responsible for overall personnel policy and appoints civil servants. In the old language, all officers are appointed by the Minister of Interior. It was suggested that this power be transferred to the Secretary-General. It's an attempt to avoid responsibility. I take the floor to tell you what kind of man runs the Ministry of Interior. And at present, all the personnel policy in the Ministry of Interior is being carried out by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, and here it was proposed to formally transfer this power to him. I'm glad the MPs found out what it was about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Please vote on the Commission proposal for § 40 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission § 40 by importer to be rejected. Vote 78 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to reject § 40 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u216	Under § 41, again identical proposals. A proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point 2. In para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 158, p. 5 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced by the following: 158, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 41 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u217	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. 2 of the proposal. Vote 76 MPs: 11 against 13, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 41 by importer to be rejected. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject § 41 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u218	Under § 42 again identical proposals. A proposal from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 42 per importer be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 40. According to § 44, a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 163 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 a dash shall be placed after the word.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 3: After the end of the competition under para. 1 civil servants shall be reassigned to a higher position after successful completion of the relevant professional training. Upon failure to complete the relevant professional training, the civil servants of the Ministry of Interior shall not be reassigned to the higher type of position.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u219	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 42 by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject § 42 by importer has been accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 40 and 41 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 3. Paragraphs 40 and 41 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u220	According to § 45, a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 45 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u221	We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 45 by importer to be rejected. Vote 81 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to reject § 45 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u222	Proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165 is created. 6: The application of the order for temporary reassignment in the case of a reasoned official need shall not stop the execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u223	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 42 with the corresponding content, according to the report. We are voting § 42 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The Commission's proposal for a new § 42 with its respective content has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u224	Under § 46 a proposal was received by the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: The following text is added in point 4 (Commission sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169 the following amendments are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "work" a comma is placed, the Director of APZN is added and a comma is placed and the word "komandirova" is replaced by "receipts." 2. In para. 2 the word "komandirovan" shall be replaced by an appointed "and the word "komandirosing" shall be replaced by "the appointment." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 46 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u225	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: 10, 12, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 46 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 46 by importer is unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u226	Under § 47, there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 47: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 170a is created a new para. 4. A civil servant who has been found to have a non-compliance in the level of professional training with the requirements for taking up the post in an annual check shall be sent by the appointing authority for compulsory training to increase the professional training for a duration of at least 3 months. The terms and procedures for carrying out the training shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down by the ordinance under art. 164a, para. 2. 2. The current al. 4 becomes para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 170a: Art. 170a. (1) State officials under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 shall be obliged to maintain and increase their professional training necessary for the performance of the post by means of vocational training. (2) The civil servants shall undergo a check once a year to assess the level of professional training, and the order for carrying out the checks shall be regulated by the ordinance under art. 170, para. 5. (3) A non-compliance of the level of professional training with the requirements for taking up the post in two consecutive annual checks shall be the basis for an assessment of the performance of the post under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance under art. 164a, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u227	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have an editorial proposal to include you. 3 " and the editorial proposal reads as follows: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 170a: Art. 170a. (1) State officials under art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 3 are obliged to maintain and increase their professional training required to carry out the job through vocational training. With the addition of para. 3 We aim for the employees of the Inspectorate and the Academy of the Ministry of Interior to be also checked and to have the opportunity to increase their qualifications. We believe that the proposal is absolutely resonant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u229	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see in § 43 a discrepancy. Since the majority of colleagues have complied with the proposal made by the Ministry of Interior, the question is the question of how civil servants are obliged to maintain and increase their professional training: the staff responsible maintain and increase their professional training necessary to carry out the job through vocational training. An established non-compliance of the level of professional training with the requirements for taking up the post in two consecutive annual inspections shall be the basis for an assessment of the performance of the post under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 33 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, the current Act on the Ministry of Interior, refers to: the Ministry of Interior is headed by a minister, who, according to this. 7 is managing human resources. Colleagues, with this change in the Law, it is the responsibility of each employee to increase his qualification and, at the same time, for human resources, for the qualification of the employees, according to art. 33, it's the Home Secretary's. We release the Minister of Interior from this commitment and place it on every employee, or according to the opinion of the political leadership? Those who were uncomfortable had to improve their own qualifications. I propose that this text, as proposed by the Commission, should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-05.u231	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: 5 against 22, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov from the parliamentary tribune, as presented to you. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 14 against 9, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I am putting to a vote § 43 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 5, abstention 1. Paragraph 43 of the Commission's report has been adopted. The time is 14.01 "We have exhausted today's plenary time. Tomorrow we will continue our work on the Bill. The next meeting tomorrow 6 October at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
