ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u1	Colleagues, there's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the Parliament, several announcements: On 28 July 2016, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 9 of 28 July 2016 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 8 of 2016. By its decision, the Constitutional Court ruled at the request of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and declared an unconstitutional decision to produce a national referendum adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly on 12 May 2016, in the part referred to in points 2, 4 and 6, with which the questions were adopted as follows: - ct. 2: Do you support the number of Members of the National Assembly to be reduced to 120? - ct. 4: Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the conduct of elections and referendums? - ct. 6: Do you support the directors of the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system, with an absolute majority in two rounds? On 28 July 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 28 July 2016 to 25 July 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 28 July 2016 to 25 July 2020. No 602-00-52 was received by the National Assembly a Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the European Union (January and for the main priorities during the Slovak Presidency of the Council of the European Union (July December 2016) and a six-month programme of the Council on European Affairs with the priority topics and files for the Republic of Bulgaria during the Slovak Presidency of the Council of the European Union (July), adopted by Decision No 621 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. The materials are provided to the MPs of their e-mail. On 28 July 2016, by letter of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the National Assembly received: Report on the implementation of the functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 June 2016. "24 July 2016 and Protocol No 32 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Fund, held on 25 July 2016, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By my letter, the Report and the Protocol were made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The materials are also available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information on the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services was received from the National Statistical Institute in July 2016. The material is available to all colleagues in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Gechev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u2	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose that the first item on the agenda today be the Draft Decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of Sofia Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u3	Are you in a hurry for Buzludja?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u4	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a change in the order of the points for today's plenary. They voted 132 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO RETURN THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO carry out THE CONFORMITY AUDIT FOR THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE SOFIA-SOCIETY-SOCIETY-BASED. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will be presented to us by Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u5	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Sofia Airport EAD, No 654-02-67, submitted by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. At a meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Court of Auditors: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov President, and Mr. Toshko Todorov Vice-President. In the reasons for the draft decision, the importers point out that the Sofia Airport EAD is a leading Bulgarian international airport serving about 4 million passengers per year. As an important strategic object, it also has to do with the national security of the country. The company generates revenues in two main directions: on the one hand, as an airport operator who collects public charges and on the other, as a commercial company serving ground airlines, renting out areas and managing shops and parking lots. In recent years the Bulgarian state has invested millions of levs in the renovation of the material base and infrastructure of the airport, building the connection of the Sofia subway to Terminal 2. Despite the huge state investments to modernise the largest Bulgarian airport, there is a tendency to decrease the financial performance of the company. In this regard, the award of the Court of Auditors' audit of compliance in the financial management of Sofia Airport will contribute to increasing the transparency of management decisions, will respond to the suspicions of abuse of funds by the Company, will protect and ensure the interests of citizens and society. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 11 votes for Project! DECISION authorising the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Sofia Airport EAD The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Sofia Airport EAD for the period 1 January 2013. 30 June 2016 2. The audit period shall be from 1 September 2016 to 28 February 2017. 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be until 31 March 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I vote on the draft decision proposed to you by Mrs. Stoyanova on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance, unanimously supported by her members. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to point one for today, provided for in our programme before the change of order that took place by a deliberate decision of the plenary, namely: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS FOR THE PROPOSAL OF THE PRESENT AND VICESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. There are three solutions projects. The first one at the time was with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the second one with importers Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, the third one with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov, Rumen Yonchev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Borislav Velikov, Mariana Todorova, Valeri Simeonov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Tanev. Colleagues, as the decisions differ only on the date, if you don't mind, I can offer to read them all at the same time and then hold the debates. Do you want to present the projects in person? Project! DECISION on the timing of elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 4, Art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 93, para. Art. 5 and art. 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Schedules elections for President and Vice-President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 October 2016 This is Mrs. Ninova's project and a group of MPs from the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria. Project! DECISION on the timing of elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 4, Art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 93, para. Art. 5 and art. 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 4 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED He scheduled elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 October 2016. "Sunday. " Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are importing. And the third draft decision: Project! DECISION on the timing of elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the following: 84, p. Art. 4, Art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 93, para. Art. 5 and art. 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 4, para. 4 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED He scheduled elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 November 2016. "Sunday. " I request all signatures as they are from different parliamentary groups: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Krasimira Kovatchka, Stanislav Stanilov, Rumen Yonchev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Borislav Velikov, Mariana Todorova, Valeri Simeonov, Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Tanev. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part, or will we rule on the dates by the vote? You still want the floor. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Although it is the last working day, it is still a matter of setting a date for elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria and it seems to me that only, without debate, is not the best way to pass this discussion. The BSP parliamentary group proposed the elections to be on October 23rd, not so much because this was the date of 2011 when the last presidential elections were held, but rather led by the fact that at the end of the year the Bulgarian Parliament should adopt the most important law on its work for every year, namely the State Budget Act for 2017. You know that the parliamentary procedure itself to discuss and adopt the budget of the Republic is a quite long, quite responsible task in the work of the National Assembly. The coincidence of the presidential campaign with this procedure, you know what emotions and passions are in the election campaign, in my opinion, will decide the possibility of a meaningful discussion on this issue in Parliament. This was one of the arguments that we argued in the proposed elections to be on the 23rd, as you know that the presidential elections usually pass in two rounds, so that at the beginning of November we could have a elected president and that parliament could then do its job in adopting the procedure for the state budget. Last but not least, it seems to me that October 23rd is a date that meets the expectations of the Bulgarian society to be elected an hour later a new president after the era of the appointments by GERB President Plevneliev during these five years. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u8	Whenever he is elected, he will take office on 22 January. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision on the timing of elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 October 2016. This is the project of Ms. Ninova and a group of MPs from BSP left Bulgaria. They voted 149 MPs: 21, Against 99, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. The next draft decision is from Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs from the DPS group, and it is: The National Assembly has decided: He scheduled elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 October 2016. It's Sunday. They voted 154 MPs: 24, against 95, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. The last draft decision to postpone elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria on 6 November 2016, with importers from the other six parliamentary groups. We vote. Vote 155 MPs: 133 against 14, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The elections are scheduled by decision of the National Assembly on 6 November 2016, Sunday. We move on to the next item, intended as the second for today's plenary session, namely: SELECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISOR OF THE NATIONAL SUPERVISION INSTITUTE. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 29 June this year. A report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy has been submitted. Dr. Ademov, I expect you to fill us in on the report. Before that I recall t. 5 of our Decision "Select a Governor and a Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the website; we are listening to the Commission report; the proposers present the candidates as governor and governor for two minutes; debate; vote and in view of the outcome of the vote, different hypotheses on our decision. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I am making a procedural proposal to allow Mr. Biser Petkov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u10	We are voting on this proposal. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u11	♪ I can't believe on the presentation and hearing of candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a meeting held on 28 July 2016 held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Candidates for Manager and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour Commission, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Following the opening of the meeting, the President of the Commission recalled the main points of the Rules of Procedure for conducting the hearing. He noted that the requirements of Chapters 1 and 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure were met, the documents submitted were verified, the applicants met the relevant requirements for the appointments for which they were proposed. In connection with Chapter Three of the Rules of Procedure, a letter from the Chairman of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee has requested preliminary examination of candidates under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. In response was received a letter from the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, signed by its President Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, from which it is apparent that no data establishing belonging under art. 1 of the Special Law. It was concluded that the candidates for governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute met the requirements of the Social Security Code and the rules of procedure for taking the relevant position for which they were proposed. In this context, applicants should be admitted to the hearing held at an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. As manager of the National Insurance Institute, the application of Assoc. Dr. Bisser Hristov Petkov. The application was proposed by the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva, Svetlana Angelova, Menda Stoyanova, Krasimira Kovatchka, Diana Yordanova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Borislav Velikov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Tanev, Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev, Ruslan Toshev, Claudia Grigorova-Gancheva, Venka Stoyanova, Ralitsa Angelova and Galya Zaharieva. Mr. Petkov's application was presented by the MP Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Biser Petkov has graduated from the University of National and World Economy, the Economics and Organization of Internal Trade. His professional career began in 1988 as a lecturer at the University of National and World Economy. Between 2002 and 2003 he was Chairman of the State Insurance Supervision Agency of the Council of Ministers. In March 2003, he was elected by the National Assembly as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board. In this capacity he was responsible for the regulation and supervision of the supplementary social security until May 2009. By decision of the National Assembly of 8 September 2011 he was elected governor of the National Insurance Institute. Biser Petkov is a PhD in Economics, lecturer at the UNWE, where in 2012 he was elected Associate Professor and Head of the Department of Commerce at the Faculty of Economics. There are over 40 scientific publications, specializations and trainings in Austria, England and the World Bank Institute in Washington for Public Finance, Pension Reform and Capital Schemes. He was elected to the Bureau of the International Social Security Association in November 2013 and is well known in international professional circles. He is a member of the Board of the National Revenue Agency from 2011 until now. Mrs. Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova Nacheva's candidacy has been raised for the governor of the National Insurance Institute. The application was proposed by the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva, Svetlana Angelova, Menda Stoyanova, Krasimira Kovatchka, Diana Yordanova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Borislav Velikov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Tanev, Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev, Ruslan Toshev, Claudia Grigorova-Gancheva, Venka Stoyanova, Ralitsa Angelova and Galya Zaharieva. Ms. Karaivanova's application was presented by the MP from GERB Parliamentary Group Ms. Svetlana Angelova. Vesela Karaivanova has completed higher economic education at the University of National and World Economy, a major in accounting. His professional career began in 1989 as an economist. Between 1992 and 2004, he consistently held different positions in the tax administration. Member of the National Assembly at the Thirty-nineth National Assembly. Member of the Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance, the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Temporary Parliamentary Committee for Verification of Intergovernmental Credit Agreements provided by other countries. She was elected as the vice-president of the National Insurance Institute in 2005 and re-elected in 2009 by decision of the National Assembly. From April 2011 to June 2016, Mrs. Karaivanova co-ordinates the functions of Director of the Fund. He is a key leader in the project "Construction of optimization in state institutions" and member of the Management Board of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system, member of the Advisory Council of the National Revenue Agency, member of the National Council for Child Protection. According to the rules of procedure, the candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute presented their concepts. His concept of management of the National Insurance Institute for the period 2016 - 2020 Mr. Biser Petkov presented in several parts. In the first part he presented the main results of the management of the NSI during the current term from September 2011 to July 2016. First of all, the main indicators in the implementation of the general budget of the State Social Security for the period 2012 - 2015. During the four years of the past period, the management of the National Insurance Institute has implemented the budget of the National Insurance Institute in the framework of its plans. The aim was not to further burden the state budget. Secondly, Mr. Biser Petkov emphasized on increasing the satisfaction of the users of the services of the NSI. As main results, he pointed out: a reduction in the regulatory deadline for granting a pension of 6 to 4 months; a reduction in the period for payment of cash benefits for temporary incapacity............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ With regard to increasing efficiency in the activities of the insurance administration, the following findings were made: the NSI, implementing the CSR changes, was responsible for more activities which it carried out with smaller financial resources. Savings have been made in the cost of maintenance. There is an increase in the average wage as motivation for employees in the administration of the National Insurance Institute. Next, Mr. Biser Petkov analyzed the strengths and weaknesses, opportunities and risks to the NSI (ZUO1; analysis). He divided the analysis in four directions: users; processes; development and resources; finances. With regard to consumers, the strengths relate to a well-developed territorial service network with opportunities to use different supply channels. The possibilities are related to the development and dissemination of electronic administrative services. The weak countries in this direction are the lack of a single standard of service and the unused potential of electronic services. Risks are associated with the reluctance or unpreparedness of a large part of customers to use electronic services. With regard to the processes the strong strange are in the existing internal rules and working instructions that cover the main business processes. The possibilities are in optimizing the working processes by introducing the process-oriented approach. Weak countries are unnecessary bureaucraticisation and ineffective interaction between business and IT units. Risks in this field are frequent legal changes with short time for entry into force. With regard to the "Development and Resources" the strengths are related to the availability of qualified staff and the developed information system. The opportunities are related to the development of an organizational model leading to higher operational efficiency by using economies of scale and specialization. Weak countries in this direction are an undeveloped IT security system, as well as a uniform organisational structure of territorial divisions, without taking account of scale. Risks lie in high turnover of staff and taking on new activities without the necessary collateralisation with resources. In terms of finance, the strengths are a well developed system for financial reporting and cost control. Opportunities will be sought to link financial information with information on the performance of tasks. The weak countries in this direction are shown in the weaknesses in the process of analysis and planning needs, and the risks that could arise are linked to the imposition of budgetary constraints. In the last part of his concept Mr. Biser Petkov outlined the strategic goals to be pursued, the tasks and actions to achieve them. Objective 1: Increase consumer satisfaction. Objective 2: Optimization of work processes in the NSI. Objective 3: Enhancing organisational efficiency. Objective 4: Transparency and control in the use of public resources. To this end, it will be carried out: - Implementation of pro-active and preventive measures in order to reduce the likelihood and extent of the consequences of the occurrence of the social risks provided; - Strengthening organisational efficiency, sectoral interaction and interinstitutional cooperation to identify insurance fraud and limit irregular insurance payments; - Strengthen the control of the Institute's expenditures based on the "costs and results" approach. Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova presented her concept for the development of the Institute in the period 2016 - 2020. She started her presentation with the results achieved in her previous work as a sponsor of the NSI. It focuses on the activities and effectiveness of the Guaranteed claims of workers and employees" in case of insolvency of the employer and the Insurance Archives. As a success, she pointed to the passage of the function "Sacrifice" by the National Insurance Institute at the National Revenue Agency and the payment of the cash benefits and benefits directly from the NSI to the rightful persons. She stressed her personal contribution to making the NSI a competent Bulgarian institution in the field of social security and social security in the European Community, as well as active participation of the NSI in the processes for reducing administrative burden in the NSI. At the time when it was a sub-manager, an internal information system for the introduction and storage of structured electronic documents was developed, an information centre was established for customers, pensions and supplements were paid by electronic payment card at all post offices, the authorities of the Medical Expertise presented the data of the hospital sheets issued and the decisions on their appeal electronically. According to Ms. Karaivanova, the vision for good management of the NSI can be determined by the following accents: - The National Insurance Institute to become a guarantor of legal and transparent management of the public resources of the state social security; - to improve the application of complex administrative services; - to achieve good representation in front of external institutions and outsiders; improve the effectiveness of the internal communication process; - to build an environment of mutual trust at all levels of management. This vision can be realized through the following actions: - NSI should become an active institution in the electronic government of Bulgaria; - Active participation in international social security processes; - Prevention and subsequent control; - Increasing organisational efficiency, sectoral interaction and interinstitutional cooperation through traditional approaches; - Experts in the NSI to become a reliable partner in providing insurance services; - The Institute's experts have an important role to play in achieving the objectives and maintaining integrity; - The leaders of the Institute to strive for high public trust; - Build leadership at all levels in the organization; - In implementing the insurance legislation to respect high standards of conduct and values for which leaders and experts are personally responsible and this behavior affects the public trust and the image of the institution. If all the tasks identified are fulfilled, the following results can be expected at the end of the forthcoming term: - Reduction of deficit and pressure on public finances; - Retirement - predictable, accessible, with data provided electronically; Electronicisation of the whole process of granting unemployment benefits; - Institution with minimum number of complaints and court cases brought; - Institution attractive for work, development and good microclimate; - Good material base and working conditions; - High public confidence and satisfaction of the users of the system. In the discussion were asked questions by the MPs Radan Kanev, Ralitsa Todorova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Georgi Gokov, Georgi Kadiev and Ruslan Toshev. The questions concerned: the expectations and risks of transferring the accounts of the insured persons from the universal pension funds to the National Insurance Institute; what is envisaged in the short-term insurance policy; will the formula for calculating pensions change; will the old pensions of the average social security income be recalculated and when; what new electronic services will be introduced in the coming years; what measures are being taken regarding the delayed payment of the pensions of the Bulgarians working in Greece; is there progress in the negotiations with Russia regarding the pensions of the Bulgarian citizens working in Russia; are there any changes in the laws relating to the more effective work of the Fund for the guaranteed claims of the workers and employees in insolvency of the employer; will the procedures for the registration of unemployed persons for receiving unemployment benefits be eased? Candidates for manager and sub-manager responded precisely and comprehensively to all questions within the time specified by the procedural rules. After the discussion with the MPs, the President of the Commission, Dr. Hasan Ademov, announced that to the MPs and the management of the parliamentary groups in the 43rd National Assembly, as well as to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, a proposal was received from the national representative organizations of employers and employees as candidates for governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute. It states: The resolution of accumulated problems and the making of necessary changes to the social security model require that the necessary continuity of experience and professionalism be ensured in the implementation of the next four-year term of the management of the NSI. The previous work of the organization and management of the NSI by Mr. Biser Petkov Manager, and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, is characterized by strict compliance with the insurance legislation, expertise and innovation in the preparation of the necessary legal and institutional changes, with competence and balance in fulfilling their functional responsibilities. In this regard and on the occasion of the decision of the National Assembly of 29 June 2016 adopting the terms and conditions for the proposal, hearing and selection of candidates for governor and governor of the NSI, the national representative organizations of employers and employees declare support for the applications as follows: Mr. Biser Petkov as manager of the NSI, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the NSI. The proposal was signed by Vasil Velev "President of AICB," Bozhidar Danev "Executive President of BIA," Tsvetan Simeonov "President of BCCI," Kiril Domuschiev "President of CRIB," Plamen Dimitrov "President of the CST," Dimitar Manolov "President of KT "Supportpa." In accordance with art. 89, para. 3 of the National Assembly, etc. 6 of Chapter IV of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee invited representatives of NGOs and media representatives to ask their questions to the candidates or to comment on their concepts. President Dimitar Manolov announced his support for Mr. Biser Petkov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, expressing her satisfaction with the previous work of the manager and the manager of the NSI. The President of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry expressed his expressive support. The Secretary General of the Bulgarian Association of Pensioners Mr. Dimitar Kisimov asked questions related to the functioning of the Public Council at the NSI and changing the size of all types of pensions. The answers were in the direction that, depending on the competences and responsibilities of the NSI, the necessary measures will be taken. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposed to the National Assembly to examine, discuss and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for governor and governor of the NOI, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for the selection by the National Assembly of Mr. Biser Hristov Petkov and Mrs. Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva, respectively, as Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u12	To present the draft solutions as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u13	The draft decision, Madam President. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Bisser Hristov Petkov as Governor of the National Insurance Institute for a period of four years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the election of a sub-governeur of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva to be the head of the National Insurance Institute for a term of four years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u14	Under the procedure, the proposers must propose the applications within 2 minutes, but they were presented very detailed in the Commission report. I don't think you'll share anything new with us, which is why I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who wish to take the floor with such a thorough and properly prepared report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u15	I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u16	The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I'm inviting the MPs to the House. The Quaestors, please cooperate. [[People's representatives enter the Chamber.]] I put to the vote a draft decision to elect a governor of the National Insurance Institute: The National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Bisser Hristov Petkov as Governor of the National Insurance Institute for a period of 4 years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. Congratulations, Mr. Petkov! Draft decision for the election of a sub-governeur of the National Insurance Institute: The National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Vesela Nikolova Karaivanova-Nacheva to be the head of the National Insurance Institute for a period of 4 years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. We vote! They voted 152 MPs: for 152, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. A successful new term of office of the manager and the governor of the NSI! Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: PROPOSAL TO PROVIDE NATIONAL REFERENCE WITH QUESTIONS: 1. DO YOU support the introduction of a regulated fuel market so that lower prices can be guaranteed in the Benzino-Stations? 2. DO YOU support the country's TERRITORIES to prevent one person from discovering any more of the four TERRITORIES of the country in order to make the market more competitive and to reduce the prices in the Atrecs? 3. DO YOU STAY TO END THE STATE SUBSIDION FOR THE FUNDING OF POLYTICAL PARTIES AND COALIES? 4. REPRESENTATION OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES TO BE REDUCED FROM 240 TO 120? 5. DO YOU STAY TO TAKE OFF THE IMMUNITY OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES? We will hear the reports: firstly, the Leading Committee on Legal Affairs; then the Commission on Interaction with Civil Organisations and Movements; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on Energy and the Committee on Health. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, with request for a tolerance procedure for Mr. Veselin Mareshki and Mr. Stefan Augustinov from the Initiative Committee. Requesting clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u18	Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 86 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the guests to the hall. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov. ♪ I can't believe on a proposal to produce a National referendum with questions: 1. Do you support introducing regulation of the market for fuels so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support removing the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than four pharmacies in the country's territory in order to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies? 3. Are you in favour of dropping the state subsidy completely to finance political parties and coalitions? 4. Do you support reducing the number of MPs from 240 to 120? 5. Are you in favour of..... here, Mr. President, I am making an editorial amendment to the text in the report the correct question as asked and as I will read it and please reflect it subsequently is: It's five o'clock. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of the Members of the National Assembly? "No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. At its meeting on 29 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a proposal to produce a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Veselin Mareshki, Chairman of the Initiative Committee, and Mr. Stefan Augustinov, representative of the Initiative Committee; from the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association: Mrs. Maria Yordanova, Secretary of State, Mrs. Tsveta Dinkova, Expert, and Mr. Svetoslav Benchev. The proposal to produce a national referendum was presented by Mr. Stefan Augustinov, who, in response to the opinions received and in addition to the reasons for the proposal to produce a national referendum, added on the first issue proposed by the regulatory market regulation that in other sectors the legislation provides for price regulation and gave as an example the powers of: the National Council on Prices and Reimbursement of Medicinal Products, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the definition of municipal councils at minimum and maximum prices for taxi transport, etc. He added that fuels are essential goods and the introduction of regulation will ease end-users. On the second question, Mr. Augustinov expressed the opinion that the legal provision violates the principle of free enterprise, as set out in art. 19 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. He pointed out that the proposed proposal for the production of a national referendum can be dealt with in accordance with art. 10, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government (Law). The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs pointed out that the proposal to produce a national referendum was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 February 2016. No. SG-539-01-11. On 24 March 2016, a letter was received from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented a protocol of 18 March 2016 for an inspection carried out by the Director General of the General Directorate of Grao, which found that the number of correct records found with regard to the data of the citizens who participated in the subscription was 310 078 persons. By letter dated 28 March 2016, the President of the National Assembly informed the members of the Initiative Committee that they should remove irregularities in the subscription within one month. By application of the Initiative Committee of 3 May 2016, additional forms of signatures collected in support of the proposal for a referendum are presented, claiming that the additional signatures submitted prove the support of no less than 400 000 Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights under art. 10, para. 2 of the Law. By letter dated 6 June 2016, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works informed the President of the National Assembly that, following an inspection, reflected in the minutes of 2 June 2016, the General Directorate for Regional Development and Public Works found that from the additional 125 292 entries presented, 87 278 were correct. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs announced that the total number of correct records found is 397 356 (310 078 + 87 278) and thus is below the statutory requirements in art. 10, para. 2 of the Law 400,000 signatures of citizens with electoral rights. Therefore, the National Assembly does not adopt a decision to produce a national referendum under conditions of binding competence, but may, in the case of art. 10, para. 1, t. 5 in relation to Art. 13, para. 7 of the Law to approve the proposal for the production of a national referendum or motivated to reject it. Mr. Kirilov recalled that the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 79, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is an authority supporting the activities of the National Assembly, and an assessment of eligibility and analysis of the content of the issues on which a referendum is proposed should be carried out by drawing attention to art. 9 of the Law, according to which a National referendum is allowed for a direct solution by citizens to issues of national importance and accentuated on the restrictions for producing a referendum in the hypotheses of para. 2, 3 and 4 of the Law. In addition, he pointed out that to the proposal to produce a national referendum and to meet the requirements of art. 12, para. 1 of the Law is presented a signature by the Initiative Committee consisting of at least 5 members, as well as forms certifying the citizens who supported the issues. In relation to the requirement of art. 12, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on designation and coordination with the mayor of the municipality of publicly available places for collection of signatures, Mr. Kirilov informed the MPs about the opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union.The procedure and order for collection of signatures by the Initiative Committee were said to have been violated, as signatures and agitation in support of the National referendum were collected at the premises of pharmacies and there was no prior coordination with the mayor of the municipality to determine publicly available places where signatures would be collected. The opinion contains data that pharmacies are controllers of personal data and the provision of trade concessions or other preferential conditions to consumers of medicinal products may affect their decision to enter the petition and therefore it is unacceptable by using incentives to seek support for the production of a national referendum. Regarding the first question: (Do you support introducing regulation of the fuel market so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations?) Mr. Kirilov announced that a negative opinion has been received from the Ministry of Economy to the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, according to which the introduction of regulation would be contrary to the rules of competition and the principles of the market economy, with considerations that there are currently three regulatory bodies on the fuel market: State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and the Commission for Protection of Competition, while in the powers of the KPC is the regulation of the market environment and the preservation of the rules of free competition under the Law on Protection of Competition and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Furthermore, it is pointed out that no country has imposed such regulation on the fuel market in the EU. On this issue, the Commission on Legal Affairs also received a negative opinion from the Bulgarian Petroleum and Gas Association, which reports that the establishment of regulation of the fuel market would cause irreparable damage on the market, would give a negative signal to Bulgarian and foreign investors, contrary to the free economic initiative, the principles of fair and fair competition and the free internal market. Regarding the second question: (Do you support removing the restriction that a person can open no more than 4 pharmacies in the country to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies?) a negative opinion has been received by the Ministry of Health to the Committee on Health, according to which the issue contains an unproven, declarative and misleading statement which may mislead the participants in the referendum that the market will become more competitive and will reduce the prices of medicinal products. Mr. Kirilov informed the MPs that the questions asked 3 and 4 [[(Do you fully support the state subsidy to finance political parties and coalitions?]] overlap with the issues raised by the referendum of the Initiative Committee of Slavi Trifonov, for which there is already a decision of the National Assembly of 12 May 2016 and noted that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria raised the issue regarding Question 4 [[(Support the number of Members of the National Assembly to be reduced from 240 to 120?]] to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria for verification of its possible contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The fifth question raised [[Support the waiver of the immunity of the Members of the National Assembly?]] It was understood that the same was essentially unclear. By virtue of art. 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria there is a prohibition to seek criminal liability from the Members of the National Assembly for their views and for their votes, and the prohibition also applies to actions related to the performance of their functions. Except in the provision of art. 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria immunity is laid down in art. 70 where the criminal privacy of the Members of the National Assembly is regulated, which is contained in a ban on detention, imprisonment, house arrest and pre-trial detention by the police, the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Members of the National Assembly, with the exception of crimes of general nature and serious crimes. From the question referred, the will of the initiators of the proposal to produce a national referendum cannot be taken out, whether both regulated immunitys are taken into account or just one of them. The reasons for the proposal to produce a national referendum require the elimination of immunity in order for the MPs to be liable for criminal charges, while at the same time justifying the lack of risk of repressing a Member of the National Assembly because of its political views and beliefs, which is essentially the functional immunity set out in art. 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, this ambiguity cannot be removed by editing according to the order of art. 13, para. 6 of the Law, and the question thus raised is unclear, and out of it there will be no valid will of the voters if the question is raised. The participants in the discussion were: Chavdar Georgiev, Yavor Haytov, Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Delchev, Daniel Kirilov. Mr. Georgiev pointed out that the opinion of Bulgarian citizens should be respected, but pointed out that according to him the third and fourth issues are unconstitutional and made a procedural proposal for their separate vote. Mr. Haytov welcomed the initiative to produce a national referendum. Mr. Dimitrov expressed the opinion that the first and second of the questions raised are issues closely related to the business of Mr. Mareshki and aim to establish personal business interests and therefore do not have as a matter of direct decision by citizens of national importance. Mr. Delchev declared that the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Unit (BCC) has always supported the Institute of Direct Democracy and the inquiry to people on general issues of national importance, but expressed the opinion that the first ones put forward by the proposal to produce national referendum issues are not of national importance, but reflect private business interests. Regarding the other issues, he noted that the same were the subject of discussion in the National Assembly and already allowed them by Decision of 12 May 2016. He also expressed the opinion that if those issues raised by the Initiative were also put to the future referendum, voters could be difficult to answer so many questions. In addition to the opinion of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, Mr. Benchev announced that the regulation of fuel prices will not achieve the desired effect, but, on the contrary, will lead to cuts in costs, but from there to job cuts. He recalled that by the mid-1990s there had been fuel regulation by the Council of Ministers, as a result of which there was no foreign investor interest and there was no possibility for investment in the sector to improve the offered products. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for.... 5 votes against........................................................................... As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 2 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour and 7 votes abstentioned, suggests to the National Assembly to reject the question: Do you support the introduction of regulation of the fuel market so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? - with 3 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 0 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 1 vote............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 3 votes....... 2 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - and with 10 votes in favour; 2 votes against; and 2 votes abstention; propose to the National Assembly the following draft decision to reject the proposal to produce a national referendum: Project! DECISION on a proposal to produce a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. The National Assembly, taking into account the outcome of the vote, the opinions expressed and opinions expressed in a report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 1, t. 5 in relation to Art. 13, para. 7 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED Dismisses the proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support the introduction of regulation of the market for fuels so as to guarantee lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support to remove the restriction for one person to be able to open no more than 4 pharmacies in the country to become the market more competitive and to reduce prices in the pharmacies? 3. Do you support to completely eliminate the state subsidy to finance political parties and coalitions? 4. Do you support the number of Members of the National Assembly to be reduced from 240 to 120? 5. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of the Members of the National Assembly? "No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016 "Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The next report is from the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints At his regular meeting on 23 June 2016, he examined and discussed the proposal of the Initiative Committee for the production of a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11 of 3 February 2016. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Veselin Mareshki, Chairman of the Initiative Committee and Mr. Stefan Augustinov. The reasons for the proposal to produce a national referendum, which contains five questions, were presented by Mr. Veselin Mareshki. In its statement on question No 1 of the proposal to produce a national referendum related to the introduction of regulation of the fuel market, it was expressed that lower prices on the retail market would lead to a decrease in prices of almost all other goods and services. Insofar as fuels are essential goods and without a real market alternative, it is appropriate to introduce market regulation to limit commercial practices. The importers of the proposal consider that it is fair to introduce restrictions on the maximum mark-up in which traders can sell fuel on retail terms. With regard to the second question referred to the proposed proposal to remove the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than 4 pharmacies in the territory of the country, importers consider that the introduction of restrictions violates the principle of free initiative as set out in art. 19 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and free competition in the market for medicinal products is violated. Regarding Question No 3 for a complete drop of the annual state subsidy for financing political parties and coalitions. During the presentation of the question, representatives of the Initiative Committee expressed their opinion that this provision of the Law creates an undue advantage for parties and coalitions who received a number of votes in the last parliamentary elections before newly formed political entities. In relation to the question No 4 raised for national consultation in the petition on the reduction of the number of MPs from 240 to 120, importers of the proposal believe that due to the very large number of MPs the link between them and voters is virtually lost. A significant part of Bulgarian citizens cannot identify the MPs elected from their region. They believe that reducing them in half will enable only experts with the necessary competence to participate in the National Assembly, whose opinion and voice will have a real weight in the adoption of the laws. With regard to question No 5.. to drop the immunity of the MPs, the importers expressed the opinion that in the contemporary democratic society the risk of a certain MP being repressed because of its political views and beliefs is too small. Due to the lifting of this risk, there is no basis for the privilege which immunity gives to the Members of the National Assembly, namely that they cannot be detained and cannot be prosecuted, except for crimes of a general nature, with the permission of the National Assembly, and when it does not meet the President of the National Assembly. From the presented protocol of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service of 18 March 2016 for the results of the verification of the signature of the National Citizens' Initiative by the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the number of verified records are 404 485 of them 310 078 of them are of the citizens with correctly entered data, 94 407 of them are incorrect records. The verification carried out a comparison of the data on the persons from the subscription (names, CNN, permanent address) with their data contained in the population register. It is verified that the persons in the subscription comply with the legal requirements for participation in the same, to have electoral rights: to be Bulgarian citizens aged 18 years old, not to be placed under detention and not to suffer punishment in prison (according to data provided by the General Directorate of the Ministry of Justice) and to appear only once in the signature. By letter of the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva informs the Initiative Committee to remove irregularities in the petition regarding the number of citizens with electoral rights. The initial committee by letter of 3 May 2016 shall comply with the instructions given, and shall, within the time limit, remove irregularities in the signature. From the submission of the minutes by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Directorate General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service of 2 June 2016 for the results of the verification of the signature of the National Citizens' Initiative by the Directorate-General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, 125 292 of the verified records are established, of which 87 278 are of citizens with correctly recorded data, and 38 014 of them are incorrect records. The verification carried out a comparison of the data on the persons from the subscription (names, CNN, permanent address) with their data contained in the population register. It is verified whether the persons in the subscription meet the legal requirements for participation in the same, to have electoral rights: to be Bulgarian citizens aged 18 years old, not to be placed under an incarceration and not to suffer punishment in prison (by data provided by the Directorate-General for Justice) and to appear only once in the signature. The written opinion received by the Ministry of Economy regarding Question No 1, concerning the introduction of regulation of the fuel market, so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations, is expressed that it is not clear from the wording of the question what regulation will be proposed to introduce on the fuel market, so as to ensure lower prices at petrol stations, directly related to the processes of formation and determination of final sales prices or some other type of regulation. Currently there are three different types of regulation of the fuel market in Bulgaria, namely: control of the quality of liquid fuels, metrological control, regulation of the market environment and ensuring compliance with the rules of competition. The conclusion is that the current trade in liquid fuels is subject to all possible types of regulation and control. The introduction of regulation under which state authorities and institutions have the right and/or must monitor and/or regulate the pricing process in companies and businesses and trade in goods and services (including liquid fuels) in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria would be contrary to the rules of competition and the principles of the market economy. The opinion received by the Ministry of Health regarding question No 2 regarding the elimination of the restriction that a person may discover no more than 4 pharmacies in the country's territory is noted that the issue contains an unproven, declarative and misleading statement for the participants in the referendum, namely that the market will become more competitive and the prices of medicinal products will be reduced. Such a wording is not a question but an unjustified statement which cannot be consulted in this form, as the participants have the opportunity not to express sovereign will but to confirm the thesis of the Initiative Committee which submitted the referendum questions. As a result, the Ministry of Health sees the need to re-formulate the issue submitted for a referendum or possibly to reject it as inadmissible. In the discussion of the proposal to produce a national referendum took part the MPs: Boyka Marinska and Snezhana Dukova. In their speeches, the MPs expressed their opinion that the questions raised were not well motivated, were not well built in clarity and as a required position, which could be answered in the most adequate and correct way. Ms. Marinska drew attention to the fact that there are 2644 signatures required under Art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government so that the National Assembly can adopt a decision to produce a national referendum. On the basis of the reasons presented and after the subsequent vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens without................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Following is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u22	"COMMODITY" on a proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support introducing regulation of the market for fuels so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support removing the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than 4 pharmacies on the territory of the country in order to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies? 3. Do you support that the state subsidy for financing political parties and coalitions should be completely removed? 4. Do you support reducing the number of MPs from 240 to 120? 5. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of Members of the National Assembly, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. At its regular meeting on 6 July 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism discussed a proposal for the production of a national referendum, No PG 539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. The meeting was attended by Plamen Hristov a representative of the Initiative Committee, representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association. The proposal was presented by Mr. Plamen Hristov. On the first issue of the proposal, he noted that fuels are essential goods and the introduction of regulation of the price at which traders can sell fuels will lead to a relief of the financial burden on end-users at the expense of the profits of traders. From the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association Mr. Svetoslav Benchev expressed the opinion that the creation of regulation of the fuel market will lead to irreparable damage on the market and contradicts the free economic initiative. He expressed concern about how the State would compensate producers and importers if the regulated price of finished petroleum products was lower than the market and this resulted in losses for economic operators. With regard to the second question concerning the restriction on the number of pharmacies a person may open on the territory of the Party, importers consider that the principle of free economic initiative and free competition in the market for medicinal products to be infringed. With regard to the questions: Do you support to drop the state funding subsidy for political parties and coalitions completely? and do you support the number of Members of the National Assembly to be reduced from 240 to 120? and the MPs noted that they are contained in the proposal for a national referendum of the Initiative Committee of Slavi Trifonov, for which there is already a decision of the National Assembly. With regard to the fifth question, importers consider that there is no basis for the privilege which immunity gives to the MPs in modern democratic society. During the discussion, the public representative Martin Dimitrov noted that he would make a proposal in plenary the first question of the proposal to produce a national referendum to change this way: Do you think that the obstacles to the fuel market should be removed? The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted its procedural proposal that the first issue be voted on separately. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism did not accept the procedural proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov for a separate vote on each of the other issues of the proposal to produce a national referendum. After presenting and discussing the proposal to produce a national referendum, a vote was held which ended with the following results: - on the issue "Do you support the introduction of regulation of the market for fuels so as to guarantee lower prices in petrol stations?" "Support:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - on 2, 3, 4 and 5 questions from the proposal for the production of a national referendum:..................................... two............... two................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to approve the issue
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. A report from the Energy Commission is following. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a proposal to produce a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016, together with: - Protocol of 18 March 2016 to check the signature of citizens who support it, carried out by the General Directorate of Civil Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, received at the National Assembly on 24 March 2016 by letter. No SG-539-01-11, by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; - A letter, huh? No SG-539-01-11 of 28 March 2016 to the President of the National Assembly; - A request, I'm in. No SG-539-01-11 of 3 May 2016 of the Initiative Committee; - Protocol of 2 June 2016 on the verification of additional signatures submitted by citizens who support the proposal made by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, received at the National Assembly on 6 June 2016 by letter. No SG-539-01-11, by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. At a meeting held on 30 June 2016, the Energy Commission examined a proposal to produce a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policies and Mr. Boncho Bonev, Head of the Department of Technical Harmonization, Machinery and Electrical Equipment, Food and Issues, on behalf of the Initiative Committee for the holding of a national referendum Mr. Plamen Hristov. Of the five questions proposed, the Commission's competence is question No 1, the introduction of regulation of the fuel market, which is why the discussion was entirely related to this issue. The proposal to produce a national referendum and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Plamen Hristov, member of the Initiative Committee. On the subject of introducing regulation of the market for fuels, he pointed out that in other sectors the legislation provides for price regulation and gave for example the powers of the National Council for Prices and Reimbursing of Medicinal Products, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the setting of minimum and maximum charges for taxi transport by Municipal Councils. He added that fuels are essential goods and the introduction of regulation will ease end-users. The topic was addressed by Mr. Svetoslav Benchev, representative of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, and Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policies Department in the Ministry of Economy. The Association does not support the introduction of a regulated market because the free market allows for the provision of quality and competitive services. The opinion of the Ministry states that setting minimum and maximum fuel prices would be contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. During the discussion, the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov made a procedural proposal for a separate vote on Question No 1 and a general vote on Issues No 2 to No 5. By 13 votes, no objection, and without abstention, the procedural proposal was accepted. As a result of the vote, the Energy Commission shall: - with 4 votes for., 6 votes against......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - without a vote of 1 against the Council and 11 abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to reject questions from No 2 to No 5 of the proposal for the production of a national referendum, No SG 539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The latest report is from the Committee on Health. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a proposal for the production of a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016, together with: Protocol of 18 March 2016 to check the signature of citizens who support it, carried out by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, received at the National Assembly on 24 March 2016 by letter dated 24 March 2016. No SG-539-01-11 by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; letter with ex. No SG-539-01-11 of 28 March 2016 of the President of the National Assembly; Please provide a detailed description of the measures already taken and planned to comply with this Decision. No SG-539-01-11 of 3 May 2016 of the Initiative Committee; Protocol of 2 June 2016 on the verification of additional signed signatures of citizens supporting the proposal made by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, received at the National Assembly on 6 June 2016 by letter dated 6 June 2016. No SG-539-01-11 by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works At its regular meeting on 30 June 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed a proposal to produce a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, representatives of NGOs, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. Of the five questions proposed, it is the Commission's competence to remove the restriction that one person may open no more than 4 pharmacies in the country, which is why the opinions submitted and the discussion held were entirely related to this issue. From the submission of the report of 18 March 2016 on the results of the verification of the signature of the Initiative Committee with President Veselin Mareshki, of the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the number of verified records is 404, of which 310 078 are of the citizens with correctly entered data and 94 407 are of the incorrect records. The verification carried out a comparison of the data on the persons from the subscription (names, CNN, permanent address) with their data contained in the population register. It is verified that the persons in the subscription comply with the legal requirements for participation in the same, to have electoral rights: to be Bulgarian citizens aged 18 years old, not to be placed under detention and not to suffer punishment in prison (according to data provided by the Directorate General "Execution of Punishments" in the Ministry of Justice) and to appear only once in the signature. On the basis of the results of the abovementioned verification by letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Initiative Committee is informed that within one month the irregularities in the signature should be removed in respect of the number of citizens with electoral rights. The Initiative Committee shall remove irregularities within the prescribed time limit by letter of 3 May 2016. From the submission of the minutes of 2 June 2016 on the results of the verification of the signature of the Initiative Committee with President Veselin Mareshki, the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, 125 292 of the verified records are established, of which 87 278 are of the citizens with correctly recorded data and 38 014 are of the incorrect records. The proposal to produce a national referendum and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Plamen Hristov, member of the Initiative Committee. He shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the provision of art. 222 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is contrary to the principle of free enterprise as set out in art. 19 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. According to the reasons, health legislation should establish uniform legal conditions for business, which means equality of all economic entities. The limitation of that right in order to protect public health and consumer interests is unfounded as it does not achieve the prevention of unfair competition and abuse of a monopoly situation. Mr. Hristov pointed out that by introducing a restriction in the law, with which a person can open no more than 4 pharmacies in the country, free competition on the market with medicinal products is violated, which in turn leads to higher prices for end-users. He pointed out that because healthcare is undoubtedly a sphere of national importance and affects the interests of all Bulgarian citizens, they should be pronounced on the question of whether a restriction should be lifted. The opinion of the Ministry of Health was presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov, who pointed out that the provision of art. 222 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine falls within the narrow sector competence of a particular segment of the health system, namely the retailing of medicinal products, which is why it is a discussion of the extent to which this legal framework is of national importance. He added that the legally permissible number of pharmacies that a trader can open is related only to the commercial activity of that economic operator, but not to other relations in the field of medicinal products affecting patients, medical professionals, public finances for medicinal products and other pharmaceutical market participants. According to the Ministry of Health, the issue contains an unproven, declarative and misleading statement for the participants in the referendum, namely that the market will become more competitive and the prices of medicinal products will be reduced. Dr. Penkov explained that such a wording does not constitute a question, but contains an unjustified statement which could not be consulted in this form, as citizens have the opportunity not to express their sovereign will but to confirm the thesis of the Initiative Committee importing the referendum issues. In the light of the above, the Minister of Health takes the view that the question No 2 proposed for a referendum should be reformulated or rejected as inadmissible. The President of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union Prof. Ilko Getov raised specific questions related to the methods and locations of collecting signatures from the Initiative Committee. He pointed out that the process did not meet the requirements of art. 12, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government, as they are not pre-coordinated in the proper order places where signatures will be collected. According to the word organization, the activity of political and public campaign for the collection of signatures for the production of a national referendum was carried out in premises of health institutions, which is not included in the activities which they can carry out under art. 219, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In conclusion, prof. Ghetto called on the MPs to launch a legislative initiative to amend the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government to prohibit the collection of signatures in medical and health institutions, and to introduce a restriction on persons who own medical and health institutions not to be able to chair initiative committees for the production of national and local referendums. During the discussion, the President of the Committee on Health pointed out that the legal requirement for the existence of 400 000 signatures of Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights for the production of a national referendum was not met. According to the protocols provided by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the number of citizens with correctly recorded data is 397 356, which is 2644 less than the statutory number. Dr. Daritkova explained that the current provision of art. 222 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine is in line with constitutional norms, as the supply of medicinal products is not subject to a free economic initiative. The introduced regulation is in line with the national health policy regarding ensuring affordable and quality pharmaceutical assistance for all Bulgarian citizens. She pointed out that the question No 2 proposed for a referendum is misleading and contains an unjustified statement arising not from specific data and facts, but from the personal opinion of a particular group of people. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the proposal for the production of a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016, proposed that the National Assembly not accept the proposal for the production of a national referendum, No SG-539-01-11, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to present the proposal? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Members of the National Assembly, not the cartels, the monopolies, the corruption and all those who make the Bulgarian people live...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u29	Speak on your proposal specifically, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u30	Am I just starting out in some way, or should I not address the MPs with respectable representatives? We initiated the referendum 2016 with the clear awareness that the political system has exhausted that the political elite has completely separated itself from the way of life of the Bulgarian people, from its wishes, from its views and that the referendum is the most powerful force by which the Bulgarian people should not only be questioned, but after being asked to be heard about things that concern it, especially vital ones, to make decisions that are in its favor, because no one is greater than those people who, by voting, have made you stand for these banks. I will not pay attention to the disagreements of the various committees, one says: to have regulation of the drug market; the other says: there should be no regulations on the fuel market, to the extent that some professor of some pharmaceutical union does not know the Law and to quote it wrong and not know that when private premises are made signatures, they should not be declared and declared anywhere. Those are other topics. It's just another way to show that the cartel is so strong and that robbing is so big that it can even make a supposedly respected professor say false and illegal things. I will not pay attention to the issue of the number of MPs. You can see that there are currently no 240 MPs in the Chamber. I'm not going to pay attention to the question of immunity either. We are not talking about immunity in relation to the speeches, we are talking about immunity in relation to criminal liability, because we believe that every Bulgarian citizen, he and a member of parliament, should be liable for criminal offences. And this does not need to be asked permission from his colleagues to be held responsible, not for his speeches. We're not gonna answer for the grant. It is clear to everyone that the subsidy is so large and is used not for its intended purpose and does not lead to the democratization of the political process in Bulgaria, on the contrary it leads to its distortion. And I'm not going to pay attention to the question of the number of pharmacies, because it's just unconstitutional. You say today that other issues are unconstitutional and you remove them from the referendum, and this issue, which is also unconstitutional, so many years in a row nobody implements the law and makes it constitutional. However, I will draw attention to the main question, and the main question is: could such regulations be introduced..................................... not so much regulation of the Commission's type of energy and water regulation....................................... And here the people who are in this system know the Law very well. Such an opportunity has been introduced, although in all these years, I am the history of the pharmaceutical market from the distant 1991s, perhaps the only survivor since then, during all these years the industry has tried legally even to obtain cartels and create equal, equally high prices in Bulgarian pharmacies. Here the MPs over the years have assumed their responsibility and have not allowed such a thing to happen. This same example, and I think it has only four or five points in the Drug Act, with the same points, maximum overestimates can be introduced in the fuel trade that do not allow unfair practices, if you wish to obtain margins of 50, 60, and more percent. And here I will immediately give you an example of how a competitor in a city, when we showed that the lack of rules could lead to the robbing of the Bulgarian people, came out and said: "Yes, but by selling cheaper, we will have to free two three people from our service. What about these 50's 60,000 fellow citizens he's been robbing so he can pay two or three people more, and an unworthy salary, some kind of salary? We will be interested in protecting the interest of the Bulgarian people, or will we protect the interest of several private owners of gas stations? Even if these were Bulgarian citizens, let's say that it would make some sense, but here we are talking about international companies that make billions of revolutions and, as they claim everywhere, for years with these billions of revolutions, even though they sell with such large overestimates, generate losses and don't import any money into Bulgaria's budget. So I'm going to ask you the basic question, which could lead to a billion and a half million. lv. to remain in the Bulgarian citizen, in the Bulgarian businessman, in the Bulgarian state, to be separated from the other issues, and to put it to a separate vote. I hope that you will give the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to speak. You lose nothing if you listen to the wishes of the Bulgarian people. Not only do you not lose, I believe that with the money, a few million, which do not remain for example in the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, but go in private pockets, lead to not having enough police cars, more police officers in small towns and they have the opportunity to do their job more effectively for the benefit of the citizens. This also concerns health care and emergency aid, it also concerns farmers - every sector in Bulgaria is a direct consequence of fuel prices. If we make sure that the lack of control does not lead to strange overestimates and strange situations in the fuel market, I believe that the Bulgarian people will live much better in a much better regulated country. I was pleasantly surprised when I heard the results and saw that, in one of the main committees on economic policy and tourism, it had nevertheless come to the point that the first question concerning fuel prices was supported. I would like to say to you that we will do our best to reach every Bulgarian MP through his name and vision with the way to vote on the decision on the first question. Anonymity in this case will not help you to make a decision to the detriment of the Bulgarian people and lead to the fact that we create people placed at the edge of the wall and placed there, become easy prey to what we see is happening right now in the whole world. That one person was in Bulgaria, placed on the edge, went to Germany Another man in Nice. We live well. I see well-dressed, well-built, good-looking people, but not everyone in Bulgaria is like this. Those of you who are not from Sofia but live in smaller towns know how the Bulgarian people live in the so-called province. Once again, be at the height of the word "People's Representative" and protect the interest of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I proposed to the Economic Commission the division of issues and the separate vote on the first question. I have proposed his version, which I will now read to you and will provide to the management of the National Assembly. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Economic Commission, who supported the editorial and split vote on this issue. I suggest that the editing of the first question be as follows: Do you think that the obstacles to competition in the fuel market should be removed? For me, that's the real question. With regulation, it's not gonna work. With additional regulations, the issue will not be resolved. Fuel prices in Bulgaria will be lower through more competition through removing obstacles. The economic committee is the committee that protects competition or should be, and often is. My colleagues voted in favour. I would now like to call on the National Assembly to act in the same way as it is to accept the split vote and to support the editing of this issue, which I am now giving to... [[Calling President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] A little ugly written with an apology,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u33	But you read it in a very expressive way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u34	...but clearly read. Today I checked, ladies and gentlemen, the average fuel prices in Bulgaria, without taxes. I have explained many times from this tribune that in order to have price comparability, excise duty and VAT must be removed. With today's date, the average prices of petrol and diesel in Bulgaria are again above average Europeans, as was several years in a row. This stock is insane, this is an inadequate situation. It shows problems with competition. There is no way for stock prices in Bulgaria to be above average European prices! Today it is again like this: for the petrol with about 4 pennies, for the diesel with 3 pennies. Colleagues, if you have any doubts about how to vote now, I will ask you the following very specific questions: How is it today in Austria that gasoline is about 20 cents cheaper than that in Bulgaria, without taxes? How does that work, guys? How is it today in Poland that gasoline is about 40 cents cheaper than that in Bulgaria, without taxes? For diesel, the situation is similar. Today the diesel is about 3 cents more expensive in Bulgaria than the average levels in the European Union! And to ask you specifically: how is it that, colleagues, in Lithuania the diesel is about 20 cents cheaper than in Bulgaria today? And how is it that in Spain with about 30 pennies the diesel today is cheaper than in Bulgaria? All this shows that there are problems with competition and that they must be the subject of solving each at the level of responsibility they have. Parliament should do what it can. I repeatedly ask questions and my colleague Slavov and I are in court because the Ministry of Finance refuses to tell us who owns the excise warehouses in Bulgaria! Those were personal data! He refuses to answer that question! My colleague Slavov and I have been forced to go to court and we have a case to find out who currently owns the excise warehouses in Bulgaria! Why is that important? Because if passing through an excise warehouse significantly increases fuel prices, it would be a serious restrictive condition for competition in Bulgaria. Since the Ministry of Finance did not provide us with the information of our questions, we first asked the question with colleague Slavov and did not get an answer. Then we asked a question with colleague Delyan Dobrev, as a guide to the Committee on Energy once again we were not answered! It is too curious to tell you that in 2011 Minister Djankov answered this question and the answer is extremely disturbing! Minister Djankov answers a written question like that! Now Minister Goranov does not answer.. neither when we ask him with colleague Slavov, nor when we ask him with colleague Delyan Dobrev. He says that this information was personal data. So on this matter, we'll wait for the court's ruling. But what if the National Assembly today rejects the first question? This will be, ladies and gentlemen, a very bad testimonial, because we will turn a blind eye to the existence of the problem. It is important for us to find out whether the Bulgarian people consider and see these obstacles to competition in the fuel market. The possible answer to that will be a signal for us and for all the competent authorities to do their job at their level of responsibility from now on, not to bury their head in the sand. Yes, we have chosen a new Commission for Protection of Competition. We have high hopes that this Commission will be responsible, serious, motivated in terms of protection of competition and measures against the suspicions of abuse of a monopoly situation, measures against the suspicions of cartels and so on. And finally, colleagues! Today we have two solutions. I don't know Mr. Mareshki and I've never spoken to him. We've never seen each other. But today we have two solutions. One solution is to do as we did in the Economic Commission. The issue is important, the question will be supported. If you have a better version of this question, give this edit. If you think what I've offered you is not the best editing, you have a better one, give it to me we'll vote. The other possibility is to bury our head in the sand, not recognize the problems in the fuel market and things to go on as they were. And in the end, I just want to tell you one thing. I asked the new Commission for Protection of Competition one question: Is there another stock stock, only one stock, for which prices in Bulgaria are permanently above average Europeans, as is fuel? Give me another example! Of all the candidates, there wasn't a single one to answer me. Think about it. Why? Think about it, do we have a problem? After all, there will be a referendum, there will be answers to questions and I ask you: is there a more serious question than this? Is there a more serious question than to be asked to the Bulgarian citizens? I call on you to act conscientiously and responsibly in your decision today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the guests.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u35	- What's the line? Guests, please, no applause in the hall. You've been invited for guests, you've had your say, you're listening from here on out! Mr. Kirilov, Lord Ananiev, Mr. Bayraktarov, the three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests, honourable colleague Dimitrov! My reply is entirely by procedure and in relation to your proposal to reformulate the issue. On your proposal, it should sound: Do you think that the obstacles to competition in the fuel market should be removed? Do you think that this question at all answers the problem you are trying to explain and which, in multiple statements, you, in one way or another, have expressed an opinion and made comments? In our Constitution, in art. 19th para. 2 The provision explicitly states:......................................................................................................... What are the obstacles? What are the obstacles that you think are hindering? If you know these obstacles and you can point them out, define them exactly and say: The problem is this, the obstacle is this! Otherwise, the question contains the answer. The question reformed by your logic means the following: "Do you want to comply with the law of all our legislation?." Including the Law on Protection of Competition, it aims to prevent all generally and specific obstacles and points to specific distortions which lead to distortion of competition in the market. If you claim that there is such an obstacle, define the obstacle! I will not comment on whether it is appropriate in this case to reformulate, but you can always put this issue in a correct manner, in your opinion, but also a correct way to the Law. Because there is no point in asking questions of the kind: Do you want us to respect the Constitution, do you want us to keep the Law? Well, we have to do it! I apologize for the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u37	Second line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Yes, the question that you gave as editing is really very strange, because what you said: "When we get an answer, we will receive a clear signal that the institutions must work. Well, they have to work and now the institutions! Why should we ask 1, 2, 3 million Bulgarians to say: yes, do your job! The new KPC has to come, do its job, if there's a cartel, break it down. We all know that the price of gas should be lower. I understand that this is also intended, but even the editing of Mr. Mareshki, who recorded the price of gasoline to be lower, well, of course we want it to be lower, well, of course we want the pensions to be 1000 BGN, well, of course we want the minimum wage to be 5 thousand. lv. Maybe, but let's ask people about these issues as well. There's no point in questions that are populist. Let the institutions do their job! I'll support whatever editing you say. The point is that here we are looking for someone to do their job, not what to ask 2, 3 million Bulgarians to waste time, resources, finances to ask them such questions. It's not serious to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u39	Third line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Dimitrov, I took a reply on the occasion of your speech, as it was extremely incorrect and dishonest with regard to the members of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Why was it wrong? Firstly, you tried with your speech to take the blame of a newly elected, newly formed Competition Protection Commission, to which you asked a question that you knew very well that you would not get an answer, but still to inform your colleagues, as I have attended the entire hearing as Vice-President of this Commission, the participants were extremely correct to answer that they could not answer you for the simple reason that they did not have the relevant information. More than that! On my proposal, the Economics Committee is here and the esteemed President Mr. Kanev made a proposal after three months when the Commission started working, after having provided the relevant information, to come to the people and see what legislative changes should be made. That was the correct behavior that you distorted. Second misbehavior. You said you proposed a separate vote on the issues. You have proposed a separate vote on one issue in the Commission. One question! And for a separate vote on each issue, I have made a proposal that you did not support. Why did I make this offer for every single question? In order for a clear and concrete debate to be made in the Commission. There were known to be issues that would be declared unconstitutional because they were clearly unconstitutional, as is the case with the reduction of the number of MPs, there were known to be issues that were frankly populist, because for example the question of pharmacies... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done! Excuse me, Madam President. ... can be formulated: "Do you want to receive free medicines in the pharmacies?." Do you think there'll be anyone to give up? There won't be. That is why I wanted a separate, separate vote on these issues. Thank you. Be correct, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u41	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm deeply disappointed! I expected you, colleagues, to say: we do not like this editing, we from GERB or from the Patriotic Front will give a very nice editing of the issue and we will vote for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u43	That's what the committees do, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u44	And you were looking for motives... I and the Commission have proposed an amendment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u45	You're making an offer in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u46	And in the Chamber I do, and in front of the Economic Commission I did, and there it was supported. Dear colleagues, at the moment you are looking for reasons and reasons not to support this issue and to reject it. That's what I'm talking about. Nothing more, nothing less. That's it! As for the obstacles to competition in the fuel market, they are described in hundreds of pages in the Commission's report on competition. They're detailed for people who are interested in the subject. If this issue is included in the issues of the referendum, on this report of the KPC and on the dozens of possible obstacles to the fuel market there will be a public debate. Then, in the context of such a referendum, there is no way to escape the main question that we ask and which is not answered by the Minister of Finance, who owns the tax warehouses. And next, how much is a liter of fuel going into a tax warehouse, and does that limit imports? In the framework of such a debate, we will not be able to escape all these answers, so, colleagues, let's not talk about populism, but tell the truth. Obviously there are people who do not want this issue to be asked to Bulgarian citizens and do not want to have a debate on the substance of the obstacles to competition in the fuel market.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u47	Tell me what's the problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u48	They do not want to know who owns the tax warehouses in Bulgaria. I call on you, if you do not offer a better version than mine, if you have a better editorial proposal, we will support you, we are ready to support you. But if you just want to reject this question because you find it uncomfortable and the debate itself finds it uncomfortable, it will be really too pathetic for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Enchev, come in. After him Mr. Imamov and Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Because I like to speak with names and facts, I would say the following: perhaps the question of Mr Mareshki, if we are to be frank and direct, must be changed and sound like this: do you want to stop the price terror in the fuel market of the Burgas oil company, whose name is many, many MPs are afraid to pronounce, because they either depend on it, or are afraid of it? It is a public secret that "Lukoil Bulgaria" or "Neftohim Burgas" or whatever you want to call it is the monopoly on the fuel market in Bulgaria. If this is not your opinion and you think I am addicted, remember what Mr. Mario Gavrilov, spokesperson of the Commission for Protection of Competition, said in the middle of last year, I quote: Mr. Mario Gavrilov, after a thorough inspection, who did the KPC, said that there is a monopoly on the wholesale market of fuels, so the prices are high. But he didn't mention the name of this god - anointed private company called Lukoil Bulgaria. Another dirty theme I will say from this tribune that the state, regardless of who is in power, which government is in power: left, right or centrist, tolerates this monopoly on the fuel market in Bulgaria, because how is it possible when the price of fuels falls worldwide, in Bulgaria to remain at the same high level or even to rise?! A moment ago Mr. Martin Dimitrov gave very accurate and up-to-date data on fuel prices in European countries and in Bulgaria, which should open the eyes of the most biased MPs. I even call on you at the outset to fully support the first question and thus meet the expectations of ours, your constituents. How could a company in Bulgaria, this is the same Burgas company, hold 80% of the tax warehouses and we not call it a monopoly? Moreover, it does not allow, since there is a cartel, another to enter this market. When three years ago, on the streets of Sofia and the big cities in Bulgaria, a civic movement of Silas organized very strong, massive, impressive protests, then it seemed that the political elite was ready to review all these situations that put Lukoil Bulgaria in favor. But it is not normal to import on lev 40 fuel and to sell two leva 40% is the difference! What Mr. Mareshki has done is a real revolution in this area. I hope that he will open a gas station in the Bulgarian capital to see the citizens of Sofia - two million people, what real competition means. In short, the Commission for Protection of Competition is not doing its job. And he does not do his job, as he fears not the governments, not the Bulgarian parliament that appoints her, is afraid of the monopoly Lukoil Bulgaria. Lukoil Bulgaria is helping MPs to enter the Bulgarian parliament. Lukoil Bulgaria is preventing certain parliamentary groups from entering the Bulgarian Parliament. Lukoil Bulgaria is conducting Bulgarian policy. Don't you know that?! Until recently, a parliamentary group on the right stood very zealously, consistently and in principle this position, and I hope that after me its representatives will take the floor again, all the more so that they are from Burgas, and to support this position. Let us part with the fear of Lukoil Bulgaria! It's not a country in the country, and it can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u51	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Mr. Imamov has the word to speak. To cook Yanaki Stoilov, after him Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! I will be very brief and I will refer again to the first question concerning fuel prices. I would like to say that I have absolutely no interests in this industry.. neither related to producers nor related to those who make such referendums. As an ordinary Bulgarian citizen, I also want fuel prices to be low, bearable, especially the prices of those social fuels that bake bread with which the Bulgarian economy moves, and this is quite normal. My first question with regard to fuel prices is as follows. The question given by Mr. Mareshki and Mr. Dimitrov are in complete logical contradiction because removing obstacles to free competition does not in any case mean any regulations. The question is: Can one question at all be replaced by another, which is in complete logical and meaningful contradiction to the first? This is a question of those who participated in the referendum, not of any MP here or anyone else. Secondly, I think it is wrong to make similar comparisons of prices. We are talking about what types of prices we compare and what suggestions we make about producer prices, wholesale prices, money prices, notice, regional prices? Fuel prices depend, above all, on the trends and trends of regional prices, which are in the region. Thus, such comparisons bring elements of deception, and this cannot be a basis for any decision-making.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u53	Any lines to Mr. Imamov? I won't. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fashion of referendums has come. Recently, we have seen cases of both abuse of referendums and fear on the part of many politicians in the implementation of direct democracy. I would like to refer to the subject, which causes the most understandable attention, formulated in the first question of the proposal for fuel price regulation, to guarantee the fuel market. I will refrain from reasoning about the qualities of the originators, about the ways in which significantly lower prices are achieved. I will abstain from the qualities of the government, i.e. those who have to regulate the market for fuels so that they exist and they are more favourable to consumers. In our country at the moment the prices of the main fuels are about two levs, after the prices of oil on the international market continue to be quite low. There were times when they were at record low levels for the whole new story. The final retail prices then decreased, but not in proportion to the costs made by those producing and offering these fuels. Some of the objections made by representatives of state institutions are that there were now three regulations of fuels, and, notice, such regulation they consider metrology control. Just because there are some requirements for petrol-ponds, does that mean fuel regulation? The only regulatory authority concerned is the Commission for Protection of Competition, but it clearly has not found any arguments and mainly forces to establish cartel agreements. It has already been said that since excise warehouses are almost under monopoly control, since fuels must be purchased from the same places, regardless of the wide variety of gas stations chains, almost everyone is practically selling at the same prices. The presence of multiple entities on the market is not yet evidence that there is a market. And that has to be understood! Because we are witnessing the robbery of the Bulgarian consumer throughout the chain from the purchase of the car, during its operation, until its transmission for recycling. How does that work? A few days ago, there was a topic in the parliamentary control of eco-taxes that pays everyone who buys a car because there are mandatory recycling organisations. Thus, the State itself has created similar monopoly, privileged cartels to collect money without even being shown that they operate on the scale for which these funds are received, after there are other entities that, on a market basis, offer this activity and manage to support themselves. Further, the person who was robbed at the price of buying the car goes to the gas station and this process continues. It is clear and it was well said: when most of the prices in Bulgaria are still lower than the average European prices, they are the same, in some cases higher, and we are talking about countries that are not producers, they do not have their own sources of oil production. Well, how is it that in countries with significantly higher standards that rely entirely on imported fuels, things are similar or better than in Bulgaria? This is a big topic, and here it comes down to how the state regulates fuel prices. There are two methods of regulation. One is the direct participation of the state in the market. He would even give faster results for me and be more effective because without complex mechanisms of laws and regulations, if the state or municipalities interfere with this winning market, you will see how prices will drop sharply. Because in the face of the state or public entities, consumers will have a clear signal of what is the real market price at which a certain profit is guaranteed, but it is neither over-profit nor achieved by any means that may raise doubts. This, however, the Bulgarian state permanently refuses to do, and other countries that have chains of gas stations in Bulgaria do. The other method is when the State introduces certain pricing rules. Many say: this cannot exist. For medicines, yes, there, they will say, this is related to the lives and health of people, but everything else that the state regulates is contrary to the principles of the free market economy, affects the rules of the European Union. I appeal more carefully to use these arguments because, as it is lightly pointed out in every discussion, Bulgarian citizens will begin to hate the European Union more and more because, moreover, what it really does not have to be liked about, you attribute to it functions with which you deliberately make people believe they are under some kind of economic slavery. How to regulate? There are examples already in the financial sector. Why are banks' interest rates subject to regulation and we have been able to say with great effort what is this base rate, what are the indices that can collect banks?! In other words, in the most sensitive sectors, which can pump large profits at the expense of consumers, businesses or those who are subject to such cartelisation, why can't the state introduce such formulas when the price of the raw material is known, what is the next cost?! Not to mention that in Bulgaria and the excise duties charged on fuels are on the final price, i.e. for the same thing people take twice money. These are matters on the agenda. And that's why the question that the originators have put is basically clear. It may not always come to a lower fuel price because it is influenced by objective factors, but this must be the goal that is set and without always predicting the final result, this must be the way of regulation. We, as a left-wing party, must support this issue. I hope and think that there will be no objection to voting separately. In this sense, I even express my approval on this subject because, for the first time, in the great exploitation of the topic of referendums, there is a question which concerns the foundations of the socio-economic system. Everyone else is playing in some political issues on which, even if changes are made, the roots of this socio-economic model will not change, which does not allow economic development or protect the interests of citizens. On the contrary, we are already seeing improvement in the techniques of the robbery. They didn't stop through any controls. In recent days we have received new evidences of such transactions led by the government or which are developing on a business line, which show the integration of economic circles which, I would not be surprised if, in a few months, we were also led to new political manifestations. Politicians will be notified when the time comes. I am telling you so that you do not say that you are surprised because one of the properties of Bulgarian politicians during the years of transition is that they understand, realize their mistakes, and in most cases do not even notice them, not to mention that they do not regret them. Just a few sentences at the end I'll also say on the subject of drug prices. I think that since there should be regulation for fuels, there should be regulation in the medicinal sector as well. The fact that a certain number of pharmacies are determined can be a discussion issue. 7-8 years ago, I made a compromise proposal that every pharmacy after the fourth one, or any pharmacy that is multipled by five, be revealed either in a place where there is no pharmacy, or where there is no 24-hour pharmacy so that the state, municipalities can re-enter this process. Now we have over-proposals in several major cities and lack of pharmacies, supply of medicines for other people. That's the big question. If you remove at all the requirement of how many pharmacies to own, you know that this issue will not be resolved. That's why I appeal to looking for solutions to real problems. The fact that there will be more pharmacies or someone can own more pharmacies does not answer the sharpest social issues that affect people's lives and health. I think that from these questions, it will be a clear enough sign if the first is supported and this will not complicate things at all, because it can simply be added to the issues of the upcoming referendum with the presidential elections. This is my proposal to show that Parliament is looking for a solution to the real issues, not just a prisoner of certain economic groups and thoughts, above all, about Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u55	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. So far, the wish to speak has stated Mr. Radan Kanev and Mr. Bayraktarov. If it were only Mr. Kanev, we would listen to him and close the debate, but there are others who want to. Thirty minutes of interruption. At 12:00 we continue with Mr. Kanev's statement. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u56	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Break time's up. And there's the sound signal. Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. The word is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u57	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I, too, will refer to the subject of the split vote on the first issue of the issues proposed for a referendum. First of all, I would like to say that I fully accept the arguments of my colleague Kirilov, as well as the arguments shared by the House and other colleagues, such as Mr. Lazarov, as regards the fact that monopoly, competition, cartels should be prevented under the Constitution and the special legislation by specific and delegated national institutions and that voting in a national referendum cannot prevent the monopoly. There is neither legal nor political instrument. I would also agree with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov that the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC) is the body most responsible for preventing monopolies and cartels. But I would add a lot more to that, and above all, that the licenses for tax warehouses are not issued by the Commission for Protection of Competition, but are issued by the Customs Agency and the Ministry of Finance together. So more than one key state authority has to make sure that there are no cartels and monopolies in the fuel market and no other market. But I want to pay attention to something else. It is true that there are institutions that need to take care of such a policy. It is also true that the Council of Ministers, as an executive body, has its main functions long before we get to the issue of legislation, let alone the topic of referendums. But it is also true that for more than five years political efforts are being made in the Bulgarian political life to raise this topic, to find solutions and each time they encounter a refusal of these institutions to deal with the problem. They are confronted with the fact that in the new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition with the largest majority in this Chamber a person was elected, who has the most resounding doubts that he serves the key monopoly on the fuel market. It is also true that Mr. Rumen Ovcharov continues to represent the Bulgarian state in the city of Lukoil. It is also true that the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency in different heads fail to cope with the obvious monopoly in tax warehouses. It is clear that the KPC in different configurations fails to cope with this monopoly. On the contrary, we also see other dangerous monopolies, such as the recent topic of monopoly in recycling used cars, which is seriously deepening. We see concrete examples that from the fight against monopolies and specifically with the monopoly of the fuel market at present have abdicated the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the Commission for Protection of Competition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u58	Shall we extend the group's time, Mr. Kanev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u59	Yes, please extend. ... The Ministry of Finance and Customs and we have to accept that, at the moment when for years different state institutions abdicate from their constitutional legal responsibilities, perhaps then comes the moment when the sovereign should remind them of these responsibilities. Here I will agree with Mr. Mareshki himself that his first question is very badly formulated. I would not support it with this wording, because this formulation for new regulations will be used by the same showermen who establish monopolies. But Mr. Martin Dimitrov's editing is extremely sober and without being a direct legal instrument for removing monopolies, it would be a tool for powerful public pressure on institutions which consciously or unconsciously, in our opinion, do not deal with a very difficult and affecting every Bulgarian citizen problem. For this reason, I strongly support the split vote and the editing of Mr. Martin Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u60	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u61	Thank you, Madam President. To be honest, I didn't mean to say anything. The reason for my speech is the speeches of some of the pre-speakers who, with a edifying tone, spoke to colleagues and made themselves more saints than the saints. You heard different motives. Colleagues, however, you did not accidentally hear that Lukoil (Lukoil) was privatized during Kostov's government) accidentally missed a fact! It was an accident! At the same time, I hear people who are talking with Komsomol enthusiasm about holding referendums, but, honourable colleagues, here in this hall, there are people who are pioneers in holding a referendum, including from GERB party, and I would like to stress it to my colleagues Diana Yordanova, Ivan Valkov, but we held a referendum in Burgas. This was the first referendum, which concerned a really serious issue and the rescue of a whole sector, which today brings more than 15% of the country's gross domestic product, that is, Bulgarian tourism. This referendum, notice, which was held in a dog's cold, extremely cold weather, colleagues remember, can tell you, there was 90% support from those who participated in it. Because on the left I hear some fairy tales, they accidentally forgot that they wrote the same Law on referendums, about a fair referendum with which he practically became illegitimate or failed to comply with the terms of the Law, but we saved Bulgarian tourism anyway. Why am I not going to support the proposal for editing made here in the Chamber of colleague Dimitrov? The subtext of this proposal, honourable Members, in fact means: "Do you want the law to be respected? " Yes, we do, because by the will of the Bulgarian people we write laws, we adopt laws and it is perfectly normal that we want these laws to be respected. Another point is that the implementation of the Law is carried out by relevant institutions which are part of the executive power. Another point is that enforcement and compliance with the Law is monitored by the judicial system, for which we have no competence here. There is no competence and even His Majesty the Bulgarian electoral because he is also obliged and should promote compliance with the Law. It is no accident that I started with the referendum in Burgas so that you could separate and make the difference when holding a referendum that affects hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, which affects a major sector in the Bulgarian state, and you are struggling to save this sector, you are conducting a huge information campaign and when you want to hold a referendum with the aim of populism in order to accumulate an unknown asset, it is already corrupting both the principle and the implementation of direct democracy. Today we must ask ourselves a very important question: is it normal to corrupt the principle of direct democracy with populism? I'm going to remind you a few months ago how a long-haired, non-baked man here was holding us up with edgy speeches and putting everyone under a common denominator with all kinds of epithets and definitions. Now, today it turns out that, according to the same gentlemen in the state, there should be no law, but there should be anarchy, because you see, they don't like the Constitutional Court's decision, which, by the way, we all knew, those who have at least a little legal literacy, that these three issues will be rejected and revoked by the Constitutional Court. [[Reply: Why did you accept it then?]] However, we accepted it to demonstrate that the national representation here is not against referendums. When you are already giving the good principle will to create a practice of conduct, of promoting populism, of passing nihilism, of passing the most frightening thing... what I have just told you about, of anarchy, this is now becoming a dangerous precedent and we have no right to allow this dangerous precedent. I say this from the position of a person who has participated, who has given his strength to hold the first referendum in this country and this is the referendum in the city of Burgas. I don't think anyone can blame us for not giving birth and not being people who want to have a direct democracy. This direct democracy must really be on important and principled issues. Nothing prevents me from doing one editing now and the question to be: Do you want to be young, handsome and with two million in a bank account? [[Heckling]] Is there a normal person here who says he doesn't want to? Of course not. This is not serious. This must not be allowed, we must not set precedents. That is what I wanted to tell you, and otherwise everyone can vote as they choose, according to their conscience and their understandings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u62	Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u63	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I'll be very brief. I will listen to the call of colleagues from the Chamber, I am glad that Mr. Kirilov is just entering, as he was most active, perhaps when we commented on the draft version proposed by our colleague Dimitrov that it was very common. I will try to suggest another editing of the first question, which seems to me to be precise and specific enough, perhaps to like more than colleagues. Madam President, my request is to vote on alternative terms, that is, if we reject colleague Dimitrov's proposal, then let us also vote on mine. Here, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u64	If he shares your claim that this is better...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u65	Let us vote on both proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u66	Both.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u67	I'll read it now. Colleagues, I'm gonna have to ask for some more attention. I suggest that the issue gets the following type after editing: Do you support the introduction of regulation in the regime of fuel tax warehouses to guarantee access and free competition in the fuel market? I think it becomes clear, I think it addresses the most pressing problem and, in fact, the main obstacle that everyone points to as an obstacle to the access of this market, namely the tax warehouse regime. It is this information, as you have already heard, that is the subject of a lawsuit that we are conducting. Unfortunately, by the Ministry of Finance remains a complete secret who controls the tax warehouses in Bulgaria, how to give them access. If you don't have access to a tax warehouse, you obviously don't have access to the fuel market. What I will remind you of, if you have forgotten, in the Commission's report on Protection of Competition at the beginning of the year, the KPC itself wrote on p. 8 that over 80% of the country's fuel tax warehouses are controlled by two companies. We have at least this finding from the beginning of the year, which I hope will make you think about and show you that a new regulation is really necessary, and that such regulation will enable free access and competition. As we know, free competition lowers prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u68	Mr. Slavov, what you gave me is different from what you read, missing the mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u69	I'll read it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u70	Write it to me because you read it differently.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u71	You're right, Madam President, I've dropped a word in what I've given you. You've done the right thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u72	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Boychev. [[Noise and lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u73	Dear Madam President, I will calm the colleagues of GERB. We will also go to Buzludzha and there we will place our tasks, but at the moment we respect the petition of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who submitted it to the National Assembly with a request for this referendum. The debate here showed that they have found one of the main problems in Bulgarian society. I would like to express the position of the BSP Parliamentary Group, which will also support the split vote, and we will insist that the first issue be voted on separately from the referendum. I will not allow myself, Madam President, to make amendments to the question, as sufficient editorials have been made in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u74	You have a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u75	Yeah. It seems to me that at the end of the day, we must also comply with the wishes of the citizens who signed this signature. More important to us is that any of the editorials of this issue are adopted, the desire to introduce order in the market of the fuel sector in Bulgaria is the big issue. It's obvious we have a problem there. It is obvious that the understanding of a free market and competition alone does not work. This has a direct impact on the end users as well as the Bulgarian industry. This is evidenced by the two proceedings which the Commission had for Protection of Competition in the Fuel Sector, which unfortunately ended without effect at the time. It seems to me that at the moment, with the vote in the Chamber, we can show the will of the Bulgarian Parliament that he wants to emphatically intervene in the collapse of this monopoly and cartel on the fuel market in Bulgaria. So the BSP Parliamentary Group will support the first issue of the referendum in all its possible editorials, which have been proposed here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u76	A line to Mr. Boychev? [[Loud noise.]] Mr. Slavov, I hope that the debate you are having in this House is on the same subject. [[Noise and lines.]] Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. The Quaestors, invite, if there are any MPs in the towers, there will be a vote. There was a procedural proposal for a separate vote on the first issue of the signature, which reads: "Do you support the introduction of regulation of the market for fuels so as to ensure lower prices at the gas stations? " In view of the outcome of the vote, the various editorial proposals that we have heard here, made by the parliamentary platform, will be submitted. I put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on the first issue shared in the speeches of several MPs. This proposal was first made during Mr. Slavov. We are voting on a procedural proposal for a split vote only on the first issue of the remaining five issues. They voted 114 MPs: 31, against 21, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bojinov. You expect colleagues from your group to come in and vote, perhaps? [[(Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a formal proposal to re-vote. There is no reasonable argument that one or two of the questions do not seek and find no support to be denied to many of the MPs to support the first question, about which ten MPs have spoken here, supported it, found it necessary and useful for the Bulgarian society, proposed editorials and with this vote you make it impossible to support this issue. I'm asking you to reconsider, and I'm asking you for a very serious attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u78	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 110 MPs: 33, against 52, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Proposals were made for the revision of the first question. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Slavov's version, and it is: Do you think that the obstacles to the competition in the fuel market should be removed? [[Noise and lines from RB.]] Sorry, it's Mr. Dimitrov's. He also made the first proposal for a separate vote. I'm sorry, Mr. Dimitrov, I have deprived you of authorship. We are voting for Mr. Martin Dimitrov. They voted 109 MPs: 23, against 32, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal for editing, namely: Do you support the introduction of regulation of fuel tax warehouses to guarantee access and free competition in the fuel market? We are voting for Mr. Slavov's editorial. They voted 108 MPs: 26, against 12, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u79	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, and it is linked from there to the way of voting. That you are now proposing that we vote in a package in our view, with a question declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, tell me how should we vote if MPs have a different attitude towards these issues? If this isn't just a pretext in the general chunk, let's say there are a lot of things that are inappropriate. Therefore, we have made this proposal, it has already been voted on, you are putting us in an absurd procedure where we can only say that we will not participate in this absurdity because there is no thematic link between the individual issues to be voted on together because they are on 3-4 different topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u80	Dear Mr. Stoilov, I did not offer different issues on the subject in one petition for a referendum. What is within my authority, when requesting a separate vote, we have all listened very carefully to the debate, only in terms of the first question, to allow it to vote and to rule by decision of the Chamber. If you believe that you are prevented from voting in one direction or another, no one has prevented you from making a proposal to drop out of the draft decision of the matter, which has already been announced in our previous decision, that it is contrary to the Constitution. However, such a proposal was not received in the Chamber. If you were me, [[a line from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] I am convinced that you would proceed exactly the same way, because there is no other alternative. The chair shall follow the procedural proposals of the Members of the Parliament. The draft committee is the Legal Commission, which Mr. Danail Kirilov proposed to us, I will repeat it for those who have not heard it or, in view of the duration of the debate, cannot reproduce it. "Project" DECISION on a proposal to produce a national referendum submitted by the Initiative Committee on 3 February 2016 The National Assembly, taking into account the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 1, t. 5 in relation to Art. 13, para. 7 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED Dismisses the proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support introducing regulation of the market for fuels so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support removing the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than 4 pharmacies on the territory of the country in order to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies? 3. Do you support that the state subsidy for financing political parties and coalitions should be completely removed? 4. Do you support reducing the number of MPs from 240 to 120? 5. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of Members of the National Assembly? I put to the vote the draft decision of the Legal Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 88, against 6, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. The next item is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO GENERALATE STATE MONEARY PRACTICES TO THE BULGARIAN STATE AND THE NATION. There is a report from the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! "Project" DECISION for the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 602-03-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. The Committee on Culture and Media at a regular meeting held on 14 July 2016 discussed the Draft Decision on the award of state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian State and the nation, No 602-03-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, adviser to the Minister of Culture on the issues of performing arts. The draft decision shall be proposed on the basis of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Persons for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation. Under the Law, state monetary awards for special merit are: life, periodical and one-off. The funds necessary for the payment of lifelong state monetary prizes for special merit shall be paid through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. By Decision No 553 of 7 July 2016, the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly to grant lifelong state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation, for outstanding achievements and overall contribution to the culture of: Professor. Pencho Tsvetanov Stoyanov Professor. Dr. Savka Mihailova Shopova-Markova Pianist and pedagogist; Professor. Simeon Borisov Shterev Ilka Vasileva Zafirova actress; Nikolay Stefanov Nikolaev an actor; Akkad. Nikolay Jankov Kaufman............................................................................... Aleksandar Dimitrov Balkan, circus actor. The Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 13 votes to adopt the draft decision for granting state monetary awards for special favors to the Bulgarian state and nation, No 602-03-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8.07.2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u82	Thank you. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. "Project" DECISION granting state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on the Award of Individuals for Special Merit to the Bulgarian State and the Nation HAS DECIDED 1. He awards state monetary awards lifelong for special merit to the Bulgarian state and the nation in the amount of 700 BGN. monthly, respectively: Professor. Pencho Tsvetanov Stoyanov; Professor. Dr. Savka Mihailova Shopova-Markova; Professor. Simeon Borisov Shterev; Ilka Vasileva Zafirova; Nikolay Stefanov Nikolaev; Akkad. Nikolay Yankov Kaufman; Alexander Dimitrov Balkanski, for their outstanding achievements and for their overall contribution to the field of culture. 2. Instructs the implementation of the Decision to the Minister of Culture. One explanation: the name of the Decision is: "The decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation." Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Last point of our weekly program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. There has been a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which will be reported by the National Representative Ivan Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Valeri Borisov and Director-Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u84	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u85	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 654-01-92, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Pavel Hristov on 19 July 2016. During a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 July 2016, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance was discussed, No 654-01-92, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Pavel Hristov on 19 July 2016. The main objective of the bill is to ensure continuity and to protect legal certainty in the exercise of state functions in the field of electronic management within the transitional period of structuring of the State Agency. The Law complements the provision of § 46. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. The Appendix provides that, pending the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure, the structure and organisation of the State Agency, electronic management and electronic management functions and activities will be carried out by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the current order. During the presentation of the Bill, importers argued that the explicit indication that the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications should continue to exercise the Agency's functions until the adoption of its Rules of Procedure by the Council of Ministers will create clarity and indisputability in the relations and processes subject to regulation in the transitional period. In the course of the debates, there were opinions that the adoption of the Bill is relevant both for other state institutions, given the need to ensure network and information security, as well as for citizens and legal entities who are interested in building a predictable and responsible administration. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 11 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u86	Thank you. As an importer will you offer the Law or the reasons are reproduced in the report you introduced us to?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u87	They were manufactured.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u88	Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in this topic?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u89	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u90	There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote here, however, it is necessary, perhaps, as has been tabled "A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Governance, No 654-01-92, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Pavel Hristov on 19 July 2016. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to vote at second reading the bill adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u92	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural motion for voting and the second reading of the bill adopted at first reading today in the same plenary sitting. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Unanimous. We're listening to you on the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u93	The Law on Electronic Governance is amended and supplemented by the Law on Electronic Governance. DV, No. (see Annex II to I am making a procedural proposal to make a request and to remain only the Law for Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u94	Yes, colleagues. In fact, we have one paragraph, and paragraph 2 is when the law enters into force. The exact editing is only the supplemental tool.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u95	Editorial?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u96	Editorial.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u97	I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by Mr. Valkov the name of the Law to be the Act for Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u98	................................................................................... In § 46, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance (en. DV, No. 50 of 2016) the second sentence is inserted: Until the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure, the structure and organisation of the State Agency of Electronic Management, functions and activities of electronic management shall be performed by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the current order. Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 1 July 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-29.u99	Colleagues, here in § 1, where the name of the Import Act is reproduced, Mr. Valkov correctly in the report conformed to the name already voted by the Chamber, namely the Supplement Act. I shall put to the vote § 1 with this change the Act for Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance and § 2 together with the name of the division "Concluding provision." Cancel the vote. The experts argue that in § 1 the Law on Amendment and Supplements should remain, because this is the promulgated Law in No. 50 from 2016, where it is also for amendment and there should be no I shall put to the vote § 1 and § 2 together with the name of the division of the Chamber of importers. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. These proposals have also been adopted unanimously, and thus the Second Voting Bill. Dear Members of Parliament, with the last vote, we have completed our legislative programme for this week and for this summer session of the Forty-third National Assembly. The next regular plenary session is on 31 August, Wednesday, 9:00. Until then, I wish everyone good rest in order to gather strength for the autumn session! I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[(Ringing. (Applause)]]
