ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, according to yesterday's Program for the Work of the National Assembly for this week as such. 1 a second vote is envisaged for today on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 10 February 2016 in the first vote. Before that, two messages: Yesterday, on 23 March 2016, he received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted at the first vote on 9 March this year. The project was drawn up by the Committee on Education and Science on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals between the first and second votes of the Bill. On 23 March 2016, a detailed Report on the implementation of the State Fund's budget for 2015 was received in the National Assembly. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and is available to you in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR TABACCO AND TABACCO ARTICLES. Mr. Hristov is ready. Here you go. The President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will report the proposals of the Commission on the texts for the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, before we proceed to the presentation of the Second Voting Report, please, on the basis of art. 46 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber to be Simona Boneva Head of the Department of External Affairs at the Ministry of Economy, and Svetoslava Malcheva Chief Expert at the Department of External Policy and at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u3	Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. Vote 119 MPs: 107 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u4	In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015, adopted on the first vote on 10 February 2016. The Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products is amended and supplemented by the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u5	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer for the name of the Law. (The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski enters the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u6	Good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u7	Welcome to Minister Lukarski. Abort the vote. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u8	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In the name of the law, the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u9	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "and trade in the EU' shall be replaced by the presentation and sale of the tobacco and related tobacco.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u11	Statements? I won't. We vote § 2. They voted 126 MPs: 124, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "and' shall be replaced by the words "touchs and related'. 2. In para. 3 after the word "Tutute', the related ones are added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u13	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 4 by importer. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u16	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u17	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 by importer. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u18	Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Professor's proposal. Bachvarova: In § 6, in the content of the new art. 26a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word 2. Alinea 2 is out. 3. Alinea 3 becomes al. 2. 4. Alinea 4 becomes an al. 3 and is amended as follows: The notification shall be accompanied by: 1. a detailed description of the device; 2. the information and documentation referred to in art. 35b, para. 1 and 2; 3. risk analysis and 4. Instructions for use. 5. Alinea 5 is out. 6. Alinea 6 becomes al. 4 and is amended as follows: The request shall be dealt with within 14 days of its submission. 7. Alinea 7 becomes al. 5 and is amended as follows: Where the notification does not comply with the requirements of para. 2 and 3, the Ministry of Economy shall inform the manufacturer or importer to supplement the information submitted within 14 days. 8. Alinei 8 and 9 become respectively. 6 and 7. 9. Alinea 10 is out. 10. Alinea 11 becomes al. 8, as the expression "al." 1-10 is replaced by The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Chapter 9 shall be created with art. 26a-26c: ? Chapter Nine?? New tobacco products Art. 26a. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall notify the Ministry of Economy of any new tobacco product they wish to place on the market. (2) The notification under para. 1 shall be presented in electronic form 6 months before the placing on the market of the device concerned. (3) The notification under para. 1 contains: 1. a unique identifier (EIC) of the trader and for persons registered in another Member State of the European Union or in another country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, another identification code or number; 2. the address and telephone of the manufacturer, the responsible natural or legal person in the territory of the European Union and the importer in the case of imports. (4) To the notification under para. 1 shall apply: 1. a detailed description of the new tobacco product; 2. indication of use; 3. information on ingredients and emissions in accordance with art. 35b, para. 1 4. the available studies on toxicity, the risk of addiction and the attractiveness of the new tobacco product, in particular with regard to its ingredients and emissions; 5. available studies, summary assessments of the new tobacco product and market studies on the preferences of different consumer groups, including young people and smokers; 6. other available and relevant information, including a risk analysis and the benefit of the new tobacco product, the expected effects when starting and stopping the use of tobacco products, as well as predictions related to consumer perception. (5) The notification under para. 1 and its annexes shall be dealt with by officials authorised by the Minister of the Economy within 14 days of the date of submission of the notification and its annexes. (6) In case the information provided in the notification under para. 1 and its annexes are incomplete or inaccurate, the Ministry of Economy shall, within 14 days, require the manufacturer, importer or person entering into the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, new tobacco products, to supplement the information or remove the inaccuracies. (7) The Ministry of Economy requires the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco to provide a reasoned opinion on the compliance of the new tobacco product with the requirements of the law. Opinions shall be made available to the Ministry of Economy within two months of the date of receipt of the request in the relevant administration. (8) If necessary or on the basis of the opinions referred to in para. 7 The Ministry of Economy may require manufacturers, importers or persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, new tobacco products to carry out additional tests or to submit additional information. (9) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall provide the Ministry of Economy with any new or updated information on research, research and other information under para. 4 became known to them after the notification under para. 1. (10) The Ministry of Economy shall provide the European Commission with all information under para. 1-9. Art. 26b. (1) The Ministry of Economy shall establish and maintain a public register of new tobacco products. (2) In the public register under para. 1 in a separate section, the persons who have notified a new tobacco product shall be entered and the number and type of documents applied shall be described. The entry shall be made in the order of submission of the notification, noting the movement of the file to be entered in the register. Art. 26c. New tobacco products placed on the market must comply with the requirements of the law. Depending on the category in which new tobacco products fall, the requirements for smokeless tobacco products or tobacco smoking products shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u19	Colleagues, are there any statements under § 5, including Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova's proposal and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission? Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 127 MPs: 22, against 42, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: 110 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the name of Chapter 10, the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u21	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 which becomes § 6 on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u22	Under § 8 the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u23	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u24	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made according to the order art. 80, para. Four, that's two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The offer and sale of: 1. tobacco and related products in the territory of nursery and gardens, schools, dormitories for students, medical and health establishments and their adjacent areas; 2. tobacco and related articles of sports events and public events organised for children and students; 3. tobacco and related products of and from persons under 18 years of age; 4. tobacco and related articles with defective consumer packaging, except in the case of the sale of hand-rolled cigars; 5. tobacco and related products without purchase invoice (delivery status) of the tobacco sold or related products; 6. tobacco and related products with damage and defects damaging their consumer qualities; 7. tobacco and related products without mandatory information elements for users in Bulgarian language and the coding of the relevant device of the manufacturer; 8. tobacco and related products without announcing their prices at a place available to the customer and in an appropriate way to perceive; 9. tobacco products in bulk or in individual pieces and units of open packaging, except in the case of the sale of hand-rolled cigars; 10. tobacco and related articles from machines for the sale of tobacco or related products and from self-service stands, except for duty-free trading sites; 11. cigarettes not complying with the requirements of art. 35a, para. 1; 12. liquids containing nicotine not meeting the requirements of art. 43e; 13. tobacco and related products with consumer packaging which do not meet the labelling and packaging requirements; 14. tobacco products, on the packaging of which there are texts, names, trademarks, figurative or other signs which mislead that a product is less harmful; 15. consumer packs of cigarettes containing less than 20 short cigarettes; 16. consumer packaging of tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes containing less than 30 years of tobacco; 17. tobacco products containing: (a) vitamins or other additives which mislead that the tobacco product is beneficial for health or that it is less harmful to health; b) caffeine or taurine, or other additives and stimulating compounds associated with energy and vitality; (c) additives with colouring properties for emissions; (d) supplements facilitating the inhalation or absorption of nicotine; (e) additives having carcinogenic, mutagenic or reproductive toxic properties (CMTs) in non-burnt form; 18. Cigarettes and tobacco for manual rolling of cigarettes: (a) with characteristic taste-flavoured qualities; (b) containing flavour enhancers, in any of their constituent parts, such as filters, paper, packaging, capsules or other technical elements, enabling the smell or taste of the tobacco products concerned or the intensity of their smoke; filters, paper and capsules may not contain tobacco or nicotine; 19. Tobacco and related articles containing plants and substances prohibited by the Law on Control of Drug Substances and Precipitations. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u25	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. Vote 124 MPs: 113 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u26	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... A new article is being created. Art. 31. The placing on the market of oral tobacco shall be prohibited. Art. 31a. Cross-border distance sales, as well as the supply and sale of tobacco and related products through information society services, shall be prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u27	Statements on proposals for new members with numbers 31 and 31a? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal on its report. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 32 is amended as Art. 32. (1) Imports of tobacco and related products shall be agreed with respect to the requirements of the Law by the relevant competent authorities designated by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) Tobacco and related products which are offered and sold at duty-free trading facilities under the Law on Duty-Free Trade must comply with the requirements of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u29	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. Unanimously accepted this text as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u30	Under § 12 "A proposal from the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "sweet' shall be replaced by "sweet' and related; (b) c. 1 the words "or' shall be replaced by or related to them and the words "too' shall be replaced by "too' and related thereto; (c) c. 2 is finally added to the other external signs of the advertising vision with specific or special distinctiveness, which is recognised primarily or only by persons under 18 years. 2. In para. 2 the words................................................................................................................................................................... 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "sweet' shall be replaced by "sweet' and related; (b) c. 1 all over the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4. In para. 4 and 5 words are replaced by and related to the titles. 5. The creation of para. 7. The electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall be prohibited from audiovisual commercial communications. The Radio and Television Act applies to communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u31	Colleagues, statements under § 10 in the version of the Commission report? I won't. We vote on this paragraph. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u32	Under § 13 a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In § 13, in the new content of art. 35b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." emission level data; 2. Alinea 4 is out. 3. Alinei 5 "9" becomes 4 "8" respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 13, but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 11 ..................................................... The name of Chapter 10 is amended as follows: "Comments and emissions." § 12. Article 35a is amended as follows: Art. 35a. (1) The maximum level of emissions from cigarettes produced and/or placed on the market shall not exceed: 1. ten milligrams of tar per cigarette; 2. one mg nicotine per cigarette; 3. Ten milligrams of carbon monoxide per cigarette. (2) The content of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide in cigarette emissions shall be measured on the basis of ISO 4387 standard for the pitch, ISO 10315 standard for the nicotine, and ISO 8454 standard for the carbon monoxide. The accuracy of measurements of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide shall be determined in accordance with ISO 8243. (3) The measurements under para. 2 shall be checked by laboratories accredited by the Executive Agency of Bulgaria to the Minister of Economy or by laboratories accredited by the relevant competent authority of another Member State of the European Union. (4) The laboratories under para. 3 may not be owned or controlled directly or indirectly by tobacco manufacturers. (5) The Executive Agency shall provide the European Commission with a list of the laboratories accredited by it under para. 3 specifying the approval criteria applied and the monitoring methods. The list shall be updated upon each change. § 13. Article 35b is amended as follows: Art. 35b. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall submit to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products: 1. a list of all ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products and their quantity in descending order according to the weight of each ingredient included in the product by brands and types of tobacco products; the list shall be accompanied by: (a) a declaration setting out the reasons for the inclusion of those ingredients in the tobacco products concerned; (b) the status of ingredients, including whether the ingredients are registered under Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), establishing a European Chemicals Agency, amending Directive 1999/45/EC and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No (c) classification of ingredients pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 353/1 of 31 December 2008) (d) toxicological data on ingredients in burnt or unburned form, including their effects on consumer health, taking into account all addictive properties; 2. the level of emissions under art. 35a, para. 1; 3. information on other emissions and their content in cases where they have such information; 4. information on all methods used to measure emissions from tobacco products. (2) Manufacturers, importers and persons bringing into the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, cigarettes and tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes other than the information referred to in para. 1, submit to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products and: 1. a technical document containing a general description of the additives used and their properties; 2. information on the additives included in the priority list of additives; the priority list of additives is defined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (3) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall inform the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products if the composition of a device is changed in such a way as to affect the data and information under para. 1 and 2. (4) Before the placing on the market of new and/or modified tobacco products, manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, tobacco products shall provide the data and information under para. 1 and 2 for the products concerned. (5) The data and information under para. 1 and 2 shall be provided electronically under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (6) Upon presentation of the data and information under para. 1 and 2 manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall indicate which part of them they consider to be a trade secret. (7) The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products: 1. store the data and information under para. 1 and 2 in electronic form and provides access to information for the purposes of implementing the law and Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (OJ L 127/1 of 29 April 2014.) 2. publish on its website the data and information under para. 1 and 2, with the exception of data and information which is commercial secrecy; 3. take the necessary technical and organisational measures to protect the processing of data and information which constitute a commercial or other secret protected by law; 4. inform the European Commission of any maximum level of emissions to be determined for cigarette emissions other than emissions under art. 35a, para. 1 as well as emissions from tobacco products other than cigarettes; 5. inform the European Commission of all measurement methods used for cigarette emissions other than emissions under art. 35a, para. 1 as well as for emissions from tobacco products other than cigarettes; 6. propose to the Ministry of Economy, on the basis of scientific evidence, to introduce a ban on the placing on the market of tobacco products containing additives in quantities which, at the time of consumption, increase substantially or to a measurable extent the toxic effect, the properties leading to addiction or KMTR properties of the tobacco product; 7. may require manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union to carry out further studies to assess the impact of ingredients on consumers' health, taking into account the risk of addiction to them and their toxicity. (8) The employees processing and storing the data and information under para. 7, p. 1 shall not disclose the information and facts which have become known to them regarding the performance of their duties, except where provided for by law or at the written request of a public authority. (9) In the event of the introduction of a prohibition under para. 7, p. 6 The Ministry of Economy informs the European Commission. § 14. Article 35c is amended as follows: Art. 35c. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, cigarettes and tobacco for hand-cuffing cigarettes shall carry out in-depth studies of the products offered by them containing an additive included in the priority list under art. 35b, para. 2, p. 2, and which studies aim to determine whether this additive: 1. contribute to the toxicity of the relevant items, lead to addiction to them or lead to a material or measurable increase in toxicity, or to the risk of addiction to any of the relevant items; 2. gives characteristic taste-flavoured qualities; 3. facilitates the inhalation or absorption of nicotine, or 4. leads to the formation of substances that have KMTR properties, their quantity or lead to a substantial or measurable increase in KMTR properties of any of the relevant items. (2) In the studies under para. 1 The intended use of the products concerned shall be taken into account and in particular the emissions resulting from the combustion process including the additive under para. 1. The interaction of the additive under para. 1 with other ingredients of the products concerned. Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, cigarettes and tobacco for the manual compression of cigarettes using the same additive may carry out a joint study when using the same additive in the composition of comparable tobacco products. (3) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, cigarettes and tobacco for hand-cuffing cigarettes shall prepare a report on the results of the studies under para. 1. The report shall include a summary assessment and a comprehensive review of the studies, shall indicate available scientific literature for the additive under para. 1 and summarizes its impact data. (4) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, cigarettes and tobacco for hand-cuffing cigarettes shall send the report under para. 3 to the European Commission by providing a copy of it to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products no later than 18 months after the inclusion of the supplement under para. 1 in the priority list referred to in Article 2. 35b, para. 2, p. 2. (5) Where the European Commission and/or the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco have requested further information about the additive under para. 1, this information shall be included in the report under para. 3. (6) The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products may require verification of the reports under para. 3 by an independent scientific body on their completeness, methodology and conclusions. § 15. Article 35d is amended as follows: Art. Thirty-five years. Article 35b, para. 2, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 35c shall not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act where another producer, importer or person entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union has submitted a report under art. 35c, para. 3. § 16. In Chapter 10 the article is created. 35e: Art. 35e. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall submit tobacco products to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco in electronic format: 1. own and other studies at their disposal related to market research and preferences of different consumer groups, including young people and smokers for ingredients and emissions; 2. generalized assessments of the market surveys they carry out related to the release of new tobacco products; 3. information on the volume of its sales of tobacco products by trade mark and type, in pieces or kilograms, and by Member State of the European Union, on an annual basis with effect from 1 January 2015. (2) Upon presentation of the data and information under para. 1 producers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, tobacco products shall indicate which part of the data and information they consider to be commercial secrecy. (3) The National Revenue Agency and/or the Customs Agency shall provide to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products the sales volume data available to them. (4) The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco shall store the data and information under para. 1 and 3 in electronic form and provides access to the European Commission and other Member States of the European Union, subject to information protection requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u33	Colleagues, speeches on Mrs. Bachvarova's proposal for § 13 and the new paragraphs proposed by the Commission from 11 to 16? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the Commission's version of a text which, in our view, is not applicable and in fact makes no sense at all to the issue of evaluation of tobacco emissions. Why? Because first we say that manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country and other EU member states, cigarettes and hand-cuff tobacco should provide a summary analysis and report to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco. But in the next para. 6 we say that the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products may require verification of the reports under para. 3 from an independent scientific body. Excuse me, there is only one independent scientific body in Bulgaria and this is the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. That is, the submission of the reports and its assessment should be made by this body and not to external experts, who do not know where they can be found, provided that this, in general, is a scientific area in which there are not so many specialists in Bulgaria. If we need to explore this process outside, it is also not very clear how it will be implemented. But the proposal for an independent scientific body in my opinion is not applicable and this text of para. 6 cannot be accepted at all as adequate, including the directive. Therefore, our proposal was the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco as an independent body should make this assessment of the reports and determine their completeness, methodology and conclusions accordingly. There's no one else. If you could tell me who else could make this assessment, I would agree, but at this point in the country there is no one but the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u35	Do you make specific proposals on the text of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u36	I can make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u37	Which paragraph, member and point?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u38	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u39	The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products may require verification of the reports under para. 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u40	..by an independent research authority. The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products shall verify the reports under para. 3 on their completeness, methodology and conclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u41	Instead, it may require the text to be:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u42	The expression is dismissed by an independent research body, and the words remain for their completeness, methodology and conclusions. If you want to have a working text to be held responsible for who will do this analysis and evaluation, it is the only scientific institution. That's what the offer is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? The Commission's explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u44	The text submitted by Professor can be supported. Bachvarova. Indeed, at this stage, it is the institution authorised to carry out these checks, so it is okay for this editorial amendment to be voted on, to be supported in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u45	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. Firstly, I am voting on Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova's proposal and a group of MPs made between first and second readings, which the Commission does not support. You're withdrawing it!?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u46	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u47	Mrs. Bachvarova has just withdrawn this proposal. I am now putting to the vote the editorial proposal made by her in plenary for a new version of § 14 for changes to art. 35c, para. 6 in the version of Mrs. Bachvarova, supported by Mr. Hristov as President of the Commission. We are voting for a new version of para. 6. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for the new paragraphs with numbers 11 to 16 including in their version of the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u48	Paragraph 14. Proposal of the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Chapter 10 is created with art. 35f "35u: ? Chapter 10??? Labelling and packaging Art. 35. (1) Each consumer packaging and any outer packaging of tobacco products shall contain health warnings. (2) The health warnings under para. 1 must: 1. occupy the entire surface of the consumer packaging or outer packaging which is intended for them; the surface of the consumer packaging shall also be taken as the surface of the rounded or rounded edges, if any; 2. they are not retold, reformulated, or referred to in any form; 3. are printed in a way that prevents them from being removed; 4. are indelible and fully visible, including not to hide or interrupt in whole or in part by banderoles, price labels, protective elements, envelopes, covers, boxes or other elements; 5. may be placed by stickers on consumer packaging of tobacco products other than cigarettes and hand-cuff tobacco, provided that these stickers cannot be removed; 6. remain complete at the opening of the consumer packaging, with the exception of wrappers with closing caps where health warnings can be separated when opening the packaging only in a way that ensures the graphic integrity and visibility of the text, photos and information on the cessation of the use of tobacco products. (3) The health warnings under para. 1 must not hide or interrupt the Banderoles, the price, the monitoring and tracking marks, as well as the protective elements on the consumer packaging. (4) The dimensions of the health warnings under art. 35z, para. Art. 1, art. 35k, para. Art. 1, art. 35l, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 35 m, para. 1 shall be calculated in relation to the relevant surface when the container is closed. (5) Health warnings under art. 35z, para. Art. 1, art. 35k, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 35l, para. 1 shall be surrounded by a black line of 1 mm wide within the surface intended for them. (6) Health warnings under art. 35z, para. Art. 1, art. 35k, para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 35l, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 35 m, para. 1 on tobacco products intended for duty-free trading establishments may also be printed in English and must comply with the requirements of the law. The information on the suspension of the use of tobacco products placed on the packaging of tobacco products intended for trade free of duty shall be determined by the rules on the application of the law and may be printed in English. Art. 35g. (1) On the consumer packaging and on the outer packaging of tobacco products and on the tobacco product itself, no elements or distinguishing marks may be placed which: 1. promote the tobacco product or promote its use by misleading it with regard to its characteristics, health consequences, the dangers it poses, or its emissions; 2. contain information on the content of nicotine, tar or carbon monoxide in the tobacco product; 3. to mislead that a tobacco product is less harmful or that it reduces the effects of certain harmful smoke components, or that it improves vitality and energy, that it has healing, rejuvenating, natural or organic properties, or that it brings other health or lifestyle benefits; 4. refer to taste, smell or other additives or their absence; 5. resemble a food or cosmetic product; 6. mislead that a particular tobacco product has improved biodegradableness or other environmental advantages. (2) The consumer packaging and the outer packaging of the tobacco product shall not imply any economic benefit by including printed vouchers, offering discounts, free distribution, offering a type of (3) Forbidden elements and distinguishing marks under para. 1 and 2 may include texts, symbols, names, trademarks, figurative or other signs, but are not limited to them only. Art. 35z. (1) On each consumer packaging and on each external packaging of cigarettes, tobacco for the manual shrinking of cigarettes and tobacco for water pipe shall be placed: 1. general warning "Smoking kills." You give up now. 2. Information message The tobacco smoke contains more than 70 substances known to cause cancer. (2) For the packaging of cigarettes and for the hand-crinkling tobacco of cigarettes in parallelepiped packaging: 1. the general warning under para. 1, t. 1 shall be placed at the bottom of one of the side surfaces of the consumer packaging and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 shall be placed at the bottom of the other side surface of the consumer packaging; 2. the width of the general warning under para. 1, t. 1 and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 is not less than 20 mm; 3. the width of the general warning under para. 1, t. 1 and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 must be parallel to the longest side edge of the package and to the direction of reading the warning sign. (3) For the packaging of cigarettes and tobacco for manual compression of cigarettes in the form of a rigid box with a drop-off cap, where the side surfaces are divided into two parts when opening the packaging, the general warning under para. 1, t. 1 and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 shall be fully placed on the larger of the two parts of the relevant surface. The general warning under para. 1, t. 1 shall also be placed on the inside of the upper surface visible when opening the packaging. The height of the surfaces of this type of packaging is not less than 16 mm. (4) For the tobacco for manual rolling of cigarettes in: 1. packaging in the form of a case.. The general warning under para. 1, t. 1 and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 shall be placed on surfaces that ensure full visibility of these health warnings; 2. the packages of the general warning under para. 1, t. 1 shall be placed on the outer surface of the lid and the information message under para. 1, t. 2 on the inner surface of the lid. (5) For the packaging of cigarettes, hand-crinking tobacco and water pipe tobacco, the general warning under para. 1, t. 1, as well as the information message under para. 1, t. 2 shall cover 50 per cent of the corresponding surface. Art. 35th. The general warning and the information message under art. 35z, para. 1 must be: 1. printed in Bulgarian with black thick font "Helvetica" on white background; 2. located at the centre of the surface intended for them, such as in the case of packages in the form of a parallelepiped and in all external packagings............................................................................................... Art. 35k. (1) A combined health warnings shall be placed on each consumer packaging and on each external packaging of cigarettes, hand-crinking tobacco and water pipe tobacco. (2) The combined health warnings under para. 1 must: 1. contain one textual warning from the list set out in Annex 3a and a corresponding colour photograph from the image gallery listed in Annex 3b; 2. consist of an identical textual warning from the list set out in Annex 3a and a corresponding colour photograph from the image gallery set out in Annex 3b on both sides of the consumer packaging and on each outer packaging; 3. include the following information on the cessation of the use of tobacco products: 4. to cover 65 per cent of the outer front and rear surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging; two combined health warnings shall be placed on cylindrical packaging which are at the same distance from each other, each health warning covering 65 per cent of the corresponding half of the curved surface; 5. be placed at the top of the consumer packaging and on any outer packaging in the same direction as any other information placed on the same side of the package; 6. be in the form, layout, design and proportions defined by Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/1842 of 9 October 2015 on the technical specifications for the layout, design and format of the combined health warnings for tobacco smoking products (OJ L 267/5 of 14 October 2015.) 7. in the case of consumer packs of cigarettes: a) with a height of not less than 44 mm; b) with a width of not less than 52 mm. (3) Above the combined health warnings under para. 1 no trademarks or logos shall be placed. (4) The combined health warnings under para. 1 are divided into three groups defined in Annex 3b. Groups shall be used consistently for a period of one year starting with Group 1. (5) Every combined health warning under para. 1 of the group referred to in Annex 3b used in the relevant year shall be printed, as far as possible, on an equal number of consumer and external packaging in the same year for each tobacco product brand. (6) The Ministry of Economy shall provide manufacturers and/or importers of tobacco products with technical specifications for the layout, design and form of combined health warnings for tobacco smoking products. (7) When providing technical specifications under para. 6 manufacturers and importers of tobacco products shall sign the declaration set out in Annex 3c. Art. 35L. (1) The following health warning shall be placed on each consumer packaging and on each outer packaging of smokeless tobacco products: (2) The health warning under para. 1 must: 1. meets the requirements of Art. 1. 35i; 2. shall be printed in parallel to the basic surface text intended for it; 3. shall be placed on the two largest surfaces of the consumer packaging and on each outer packaging; 4. cover 30 percent of the surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging. Art. 35 meters. (1) On each consumer packaging and on each external packaging of tobacco smoking products other than cigarettes, tobacco for the manual shrinking of cigarettes and water pipe tobacco shall be placed: 1. the general warning under art. 35z, para. 1, t. 1; 2. one of the text warnings in the list set out in Annex 3a. (2) The general warning under para. 1 includes also the following information on the cessation of the use of tobacco products: (3) The general warning under art. 35z, para. 1, t. 1 must: 1. shall be placed on the most visible surface of the consumer packaging and any outer packaging; 2. cover 30 percent of the corresponding surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging. (4) The text warning under para. 1, t. 2 must: 1. covers 40 percent of the relevant surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging; 2. appears, as far as possible, with the same frequency for each brand of these products; 3. shall be placed on the next visibility surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging; in the case of a consumer packaging with a cap falling on the next visibility surface is the one which becomes visible when opening the packaging. (5) In case the health warnings under para. 1 shall be situated on a surface greater than 150 sq. cm, the warning must cover an area of 45 sq. cm. (6) Health warnings under para. 1 must: 1. meet the requirements of Art. 1. 35i; the text of health warnings is parallel to the basic text of the surface intended for these warnings; 2. are surrounded by a black line not less than 3 mm wide and not more than 4 mm wide; this line is located outside the surface intended for the health warning. (7) Article 35h, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 35k, para. 3 shall not apply to tobacco smoking products other than cigarettes, hand-crinkling tobacco and water pipe tobacco. Art. 35n. Consumer cigarette packaging must: 1. are in the shape of a parallelepiped, including those with rounded or cut edges; 2. be made of cardboard or soft material; 3. do not have an opening which can be closed or re-sealed after the initial opening, except the closing cap and the falling lid of the hard box; in the case of packaging with a closing and falling cap, the cap is held only to the back of the consumer packaging. Art. 35o. User packs of tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes are in the shape of a parallelepiped or cylinder or are in the form of a case. Art. 35p. (1) Consumer packaging of tobacco products intended for placing on the market shall be marked with a unique identifier. (2) The unique identifier under para. 1 must: 1. shall be printed or applied in such a way that it cannot be removed or damaged; 2. shall be indelible and neither shall it be concealed nor interrupted, including by Banderol and price label, nor when opening the consumer packaging; 3. enables the determination of: (a) the date and place of production; (b) the production site; (c) the machine used to manufacture tobacco products; (d) the production shift or time of production; (e) the description of the device; (f) the retail market for which tobacco products are intended; (g) the intended transport route; (h) the importer, in the case of imports; (i) the actual transport route from the production site to the first retail outlet, including all warehouses used, the date of dispatch, the destination, the starting point and the consignee; (k) the identity of all buyers from the manufacturing site to the first retail outlet; (l) the invoice, order number and payment documents for all buyers from the production site to the first retail outlet. (3) The information under para. 2, p. In the case of imports, the unique identifier referred to in paragraph 3 (a) shall be part of the unique identifier referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1. (4) The information under para. 2, p. 3 letters............................................................................................................ 1. Art. 35p. (1) All economic operators involved in the trade in tobacco products from the manufacturer to the last economic operator before the first retail outlet (economic operators in the supply chain) shall record the receipt of all consumer packages and any intermediate movement and their final delivery. (2) The obligation under para. 1 can be carried out by marking and recording large packaging such as stacks, cartons or pallets, provided that monitoring and tracing of consumer packaging remains possible. Art. 35c. All economic operators in the tobacco supply chain before the first retail outlet keep complete and accurate records of all relevant transactions. Art. 35. (1) Manufacturers of tobacco products shall ensure the necessary equipment enabling the recording of data of the purchased, sold, stored, transported or subject to other transactions tobacco products of all economic operators in the tobacco supply chain before the first retail outlet, including importers, warehouses and transport companies. (2) The equipment under para. 1 shall provide the possibility to read and transmit the recorded data electronically to the data storage facility in accordance with para. 3. (3) The manufacturers and importers of tobacco products shall conclude a contract for the storage of the data under para. 1 with an independent third country in which the storage facility is to be located. (4) The facility under para. 3 must be located in the territory of the European Union. (5) The independence and technical capacity of the independent third party, as well as the contract under para. 3 shall be approved by the European Commission. (6) The activities of the independent third party shall be monitored by an external auditor, who shall be offered and paid by the tobacco manufacturer and approved by the European Commission. (7) The European Commission, the Customs Agency and the external auditor shall have full access to the data storage facility under para. 1. (8) In duly justified cases, the European Commission or the Customs Agency shall comply with art. 17, para. 1, t. 6 of the Customs Act may provide producers or importers with access to the stored data under para. 1, provided that commercial information is protected under the law of the European Union and of the Bulgarian legislation. (9) Data under para. 1 shall not be changed or deleted by economic operators in the supply chain of tobacco products before the first retail outlet. (10) Personal data shall be processed in compliance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (11) The main elements such as duration, possibility of renewal, experience or confidentiality required, including regular monitoring and evaluation of the operation of the contracts under para. 3 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Art. 35y.(1) A protective element shall be placed on the consumer packaging of tobacco products placed on the market. (2) The protective element under para. 1 must be: 1. protected against counterfeiting; 2. composed of visible and invisible parts; 3. printed or applied in such a way that it cannot be removed; 4. indelible and not to be concealed or interrupted, including by banderoles and price labels or other elements.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u49	I hope, fellow Members, there are speeches under § 17? Ms. Karayancheva, you have a statement with an amendment proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Under the Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, I am making an editorial amendment in art. 35z, para. 1, t. The tobacco smoke contains more than 70 substances known to cause cancer. I suggest before the quotes have a point. This message should end with a point not only in the Bulgarian but also in the English version of the Directive. That's why a point is placed after the catch before the quotes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u51	Not like in the text, after the quotes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u52	There's still a point after the quotes, but there's a point before the quotes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u53	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the editorial proposal made by Mrs Karayancheva in art. 35z, para. 1, t. 2 after the end of the sentence have a point before the quotes. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the whole text by importer, edited by the Commission, for § 14, which in this case becomes § 17. We are voting in favour of and edited by the Commission for § 17. Please vote! Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u54	Paragraph 15 - Electronic cigarettes. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 letters (b) and (c) and (d) do not support it under point (c). 1 and 3. I'm reading the unsupported proposal. 1. In the content of creations a new art. 43a: (a) in para. 1 after the word "Notifications" shall be added in advance by electronic means. (b) paragraph 2 (c) paragraph 3 shall become para. 2 and the following amendments shall be made: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The claim shall contain: (i) the claim shall contain: (ii) the claim; (iii) the claim (bb) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." toxicological data on the constituents of the liquids containing nicotine and the emissions at demand; The next unsupported is t. 3: "3." In the content of creations a new art. 43d, para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." nicotine content and, for single-use electronic cigarettes, the amount of dose taken; Proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organisation and the activities of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Chapter 12 shall be created with art. 43a "43h: "Chapter 12" Electronic cigarettes Art. 43a. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers shall notify the Ministry of Economy of any device they wish to place on the market. (2) The notification under para. 1 shall be presented in electronic form 6 months before the placing on the market of the device concerned. (3) Depending on whether the article is an electronic cigarette or a refill container, the notification under para. 1 contains: 1. single identification code (LEI) of the trader and for persons registered in another Member State of the European Union or in another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement, another identification code or number; 2. address and telephone of the manufacturer, the responsible natural or legal person in the territory of the European Union and the importer in the case of imports; 3. a list of the ingredients contained in the product and of the emissions resulting from its use, for each brand and for each type, including their quantities; 4. toxicological data on the ingredients and emissions of the device, including heating, specifying in particular their effects on consumer health when inhaled and their possible addiction effects; 5. information on the doses of nicotine and its absorption when consumed under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions; 6. a description of the components of the device; where applicable, a description of the mechanism for opening and loading the electronic cigarette or refill containers; 7. a description of the production process, including whether it includes series production and a declaration that the production process ensures compliance with the requirements of this Article; 8. a declaration that the manufacturer, importer and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers shall be fully responsible for the quality and safety of the device when marketed and used under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions. (4) In case the person presented in the notification under para. 1 information is incomplete, the Ministry of Economy may request supplement of the relevant information. (5) The Ministry of Economy shall make entry in the register under para. 8 after removal of incompletes by ) (a.k.a. 4. (6) For any substantial modification of an electronic cigarette and/or of a refill container, manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State, electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers shall submit notification under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex II. ) (a.k.a. 1-4. (7) The Ministry of Economy may also require additional information from the persons under para. 1 related to safety and quality, to the existence of adverse effects and other information on the device. (8) The Ministry of Economy shall maintain a public register of the persons under para. 1 and the items offered by them. (9) The Ministry of Economy shall publish on its website the information under para. 3 and part of the register under para. 8, except for information which is commercial secrecy. Art. 43b. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall provide the Ministry of Economy annually: 1. details of the volume of sales for each brand and for each type of product; 2. information on the preferences of different consumer groups, including young people, non-smoking and major types of smokers; 3. information on how the items are sold; 4. generalised assessments of market studies carried out in relation to point 4. 1-3, English translation. (2) The Ministry of Economy shall publish on its website the information under para. 1 and part of the register under art. 43a, para. 8, except for information which is commercial secrecy. (3) At the request of the European Commission or a Member State of the European Union, the Ministry of Economy shall provide the information under para. 1 subject to information protection requirements. Art. 43c. Manufacturers, importers, persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union and traders of electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall establish and maintain a system for collecting information on any adverse effects of those devices on human health. Art. 43 C.E. Economic operators shall, where they consider or have reason to believe that their electronic cigarettes or refill containers are not safe or of a good quality or otherwise do not comply with the requirements of the Law: 1. take immediate action to bring the product concerned into compliance with the requirements of the Law or to withdraw it from the market; 2. immediately inform the Ministry of Economy of their actions under point 2. 1. Art. 43d. (1) Liquids containing nicotine: 1. shall only be placed on the market in special refill containers with a volume of not more than 10 ml, in disposable electronic cigarettes or in disposable cartridges, the volume of cartridges or tanks not exceeding 2 ml; 2. must not contain more than 20 mg/ml nicotine; 3. shall not contain: (a) vitamins or other additives which mislead that the product is beneficial to health or presents a reduced health hazard; b) caffeine or taurine, or other additives and stimulating compounds associated with energy and vitality; (c) additives with colouring properties for emissions; (d) supplements facilitating the inhalation or absorption of nicotine; e) additives having non-burned KMT properties. (2) Only high purity ingredients are used in the production of nicotine-containing liquids. The presence of substances other than those specified in the list under art. 43a, para. 3, p. 3 is permissible only in the form of residues which are technically impossible to avoid. (3) With the exception of nicotine, only ingredients that do not pose a danger to human health in heated or unheated form shall be used in liquids containing nicotine. Art. 43f. Electronic cigarettes placed on the market must submit nicotine at equal doses under normal conditions of use. Art. 43g. Electronic cigarettes and refill containers placed on the market must be resistant to child damage, cannot be falsified, protected from breaking and leaking and have a mechanism that ensures filling without leaks. Art. 43z. (1) The packaging of electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers shall include a package leaflet with: 1. instructions for the use and storage of the device, indicating that the product is not recommended for use by young people and non-smoking persons; 2. contraindications; 3. warnings for certain risk groups; 4. possible side effects; 5. warnings of the danger of addiction and toxicity; 6. the manufacturer and/or importer and the legal or natural contact person in the territory of the European Union. (2) The packaging and each outer packaging of electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall contain: 1. a list of all ingredients in the article in descending order according to their weight; 2. indication of the nicotine content of the product and the amount of nicotine taken per dose; 3. batch number; 4. recommendation for keeping the product away from children; 5. information on the content of nicotine and flavour enhancers. (3) The packaging and any outer packaging of electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall not include elements or distinguishing marks which: 1. promote the device concerned or promote its use by misleading its characteristics, health consequences, hazards or emissions; 2. to mislead that a device is less harmful than others or results in a reduction of the effects of certain harmful smoke components, or that it improves vitality and energy, that it has healing, rejuvenating, natural or organic properties, or that it brings other health or lifestyle benefits; 3. refer to taste, smell or other additives or their absence; 4. resemble a food or cosmetic product; 5. mislead that a particular product has improved biodegradableness or other environmental advantages. (4) A health warning shall be placed on the consumer packaging and on each outer packaging of electronic cigarettes and refill containers: the product contains nicotine which leads to a strong addiction. It is not recommended for use by non-smoking agents. (5) The health warning shall be subject to art. 35l, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u55	Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! Some of our proposals in Section "Electronic cigarettes" were supported, but there are two proposals that are not supported and I would like to draw attention to the arguments for what we are proposing. Firstly, the Commission's proposal and the version states that notifications of electronic cigarettes with regard to manufacturers and importers must be submitted in electronic form six months before the placing on the market. The very idea of having a deadline is controversial and we think it will have a negative impact on stimulating gray imports. Why? The problem is, first of all, that these products have already been produced and imported into the territory of the European Union, that is, they have passed all approval procedures and the relevant information is available. The fact that there will be additional notification will delay those Bulgarian traders who respectively have business in this area, but will not stop those traders who from the European Union will import the relevant electronic cigarettes without any notification, because they are the first importers, have the necessary documentation and there is absolutely no problem to import them without this six-month notification being there. We suggested that the requirement for six months should be dropped, provided that this product has already passed the permits in the European Union. And with regard to imports from countries outside the European Union, it is perfectly justified to have control. It is now available through customs, as relevant product documents, compliance documents, an opinion of the RGI are required. That is why we propose, because I still editorially believe that we can correct this text in art. 43, para. 2 the notification under para. 1 to be submitted electronically within six months, because the six months as an imperative term mean that the administration will stand exactly six months and wait for the deadline to end and then barely react to the placing on the market of the product concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u57	Please repeat once more for ) (a.k.a. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u58	Alinea, 2................................................................................................. 1 shall be presented in electronic form up to six months and not six months. This is art. 43a, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u59	You're suggesting how to sound?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u60	Up to six months. The second proposal, which is not accepted, is under the same article. 43a, t. 4. The toxicological data on the components and emissions of the device are said to be required. In tobacco and tobacco products, we say that we want the available toxicological data that is available to be presented in the notification, and here we say that we want all toxicological data that may actually be available only to the manufacturer, but those who are importers, those who work accordingly with regard to trade in products, may not have all toxicological data. Therefore, the proposal under point (c) of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation is based on the following elements: 4 is to present the data on the statistical toxicological data. In both new products and in tobacco, we recorded available data, which is available and which are public. The other may also be a trade secret that importers or traders may be able to use in their activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u61	Then you suggest the text of t. 4 to be: the reported available
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u62	Tox screens are available. Those are my two suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u63	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, the debate took him to the Commission. We stood firmly behind the Ministry of Economy's proposal for six months because we transpose a European directive. There is a definite record of six months, first. Secondly, the processors, the tobacco manufacturers that were there, did not object to this deadline. They themselves said it didn't bother them, so let's keep the six months. And on your second proposal, there's some logic, we could support it. But the first, I think, should not be asked to implement explicitly the text that we need to introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u65	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you weren't clear enough since Mr. Hristov didn't understand either. There are types of electronic cigarettes that are ready for use and perhaps there should be such a deadline for them, but in the so-called new electronic cigarettes, they are components. There's a battery inside, and other parts that have nothing to do with the liquid, which means they're not the liquid that's being smoked. If we put a six-month period there, because the market is very dynamic, people will start buying over the Internet, the so-called "gray imports" from China, and then there will be absolutely no control at all. For most of the components of these devices, the six-month period will be devastating both for the market here and for the imports that enter Bulgaria, because a battery, when, for example, upgrades to three, to four months, when this period is six months, when the permission is obtained from the state, it will no longer be needed. They'll have received the imports, but it won't be clear exactly what they've imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u67	Third line? A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Hristov, this is what we're talking about. The directives have been transposed in all countries. The product has been produced in the territory of the European Union and has undergone all approval procedures. When an importer delivers electronic cigarettes on the Bulgarian market, there will be no need to meet these six months as a requirement because it is already provided with the necessary documents, passed into the country......... will Italy be as a producer, Poland or Germany. And for Bulgarian traders working in Bulgaria, six months will be required to inform the Ministry of Economy before placing it on the market, but these cigarettes will already be imported from other traders outside Bulgaria. Rather, the aim is for the administration to do its job faster with the notification, which is purely informational, it is not intended to control anything. The line of my colleague he entered the technology of electronic cigarettes and their ingredients. However, we are talking about electronic cigarettes, not tobacco products.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u69	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the texts discussed? The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the first proposal of Mrs Bachvarova and a group of MPs, made between the first and second votes on the bill, in the part where the Commission does not support it. They voted 86 MPs: 17 against 28, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Bachvarova's proposal for editing in art. 43a, para. 2: Instead of six months, it will be up to six months. 90 MPs voted: 26, against 17, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal of Mrs. Bachvarova is for editing of art. 43a, para. 3, p. 4: Instead of the text, the data to be reported shall be the available data to be reported. We vote on this addition, which was supported by Mr. Hristov in his line. Vote 94 MPs: 88, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting in the version of § 18 of the Commission report, in line with the editorial supplement that has just been adopted. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u70	According to § 16 there is a proposal of Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs - § 16 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Chapter 13 is created with art. 43k: "Chapter 13" Manufacture from materials of any heading, except that of the product, provided Art. 43rd. (1) Health warning shall be placed on each consumer packaging and on each outer packaging of herbal smoking products: the smoking of this product harms your health. (2) The health warning under para. 1 must: 1. shall be printed on the front and rear outer surface of the consumer packaging and on each outer packaging; 2. is printed in Bulgarian in black dense font "Helvetica" on white background; 3. cover 30 percent of the area of the respective surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging. (3) The packaging and outer packaging of herbal smoking products must not: 1. include the elements or distinguishing marks under art. 35g, ) (a.k.a. 1, t. 1-3 and 5; 2. indicate that there are no additives or fragrances in the product. Art. 43k. (1) Before the placing on the market of a new or modified tobacco product, manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, herbal tobacco products shall submit to the Ministry of Economy a list of all ingredients and their quantities used in the manufacture of such products for each trade mark and for each type. Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, plant products shall provide a declaration that the new or modified tobacco product does not contain plants or substances prohibited by the Drug Control Act and precursors. (2) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, plant products for smoking shall inform the Ministry of Economy where the composition of an article is changed in a way that influences the information under para. 1. (3) Upon presentation of the information under para. 1 and 2 manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, plant smoking products shall indicate which part of it they consider to be a commercial secret. (4) The Ministry of Economy shall publish on its website the information under para. 1 and 2 and part of the register under art. 43a, para. 8, except for information which is commercial secrecy. (5) The employees processing and storing the information under para. 1 and 2 are obliged not to disclose the information and facts which have become known to them regarding the performance of their duties, except where provided for by a law or at the written request of a public authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u71	Statements? Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u72	Madam President, colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front proposes dropping this paragraph. Our motives are as follows. First of all, the current national legislation does not foresee the existence of an artifact for smoking. Directive 2014/40 of the European Union and of the Council of 3 April 2014 lays down general arrangements for all cases existing in the different Member States. While the Netherlands has officially authorised the use of light drugs, marijuana, magic mushrooms and other opiates, so far, although there are many debates in Bulgaria, including at the moment, we have not adopted such a norm. The directive, which is currently transposed, says that the regulation of plant smoking products differs in individual Member States, and these articles are often perceived as harmless or less harmful, which is extremely misleading. As the Bulgarian legislation currently lacks legal provision for regulations for growing products for smoking, we believe that this does not need to be introduced as a regulatory requirement at the moment. Colleagues, some time ago we witnessed several fracking cases with children hospitalized in various health facilities in the country. There was an incident in Shumen with a child who ended in death. About a dozen children were hospitalized at the Center for Mental Health in Ruse. Unfortunately, these are the children who used to smoke tea. To even greater regret, the laboratories that have tried to investigate the content of this substance have failed to identify the origin of these plants. In recent months, what is happening has made us, from the Patriotic Front, to make our proposal to drop this paragraph, because this is what is defined in this Directive, I will share it with you: A plant smoking product means a plant-based product, herbs or fruit that does not contain tobacco and which can be consumed through a burning process. We are extremely concerned. Currently, there are extremely thorough debates on whether marijuana should be legalized for medical purposes, whether light marijuana should generally be legalized in Bulgaria. National legislation has rejected these possibilities and so far no such definitions have been adopted in the Bulgarian legislation, because the national responsible behavior should now be exactly like this. Opening the door to the adoption of such a paragraph for smoking plants will open the door to many other things that will be very difficult to deal with from now on. Therefore, honourable Members, as a mother and as a woman, I would like to ask you today to support this proposal. Let's think very carefully about how this is going to happen. In my opinion, our society is not yet ready for this challenge. Let us vote today for the sake of the future of our children, for the preservation of their lives and their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u73	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Karayancheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u74	Madam President, honourable Members! In view of what the people's representative Sultanka Petrova said, we of the Parliamentary Group will support her proposal because it is objectively her concern. I think we should have a wider debate about this particular chapter in this bill. We may be facing some sanctions from Europe, but we must preserve the health and life of our children. If there are any concerns in any plan, we must act responsibly and hold the relevant debates. Therefore, from the National Assembly stands, I would like to announce that we will have an extended meeting. We will invite representatives from the National Drug Council, from the Health Commission, the Agricultural Commission, colleagues from the Economic Commission and the Ministry of Economy, so that we can clearly sign this regulation, clearly see who will control all of this. And if it is to be laid down in our legislation, this chapter is to be clearly regulated by the relevant norms and penalties resulting from the infringement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u75	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here's your speech, Mr. Danov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u76	Dear President, honourable Members, we from Coalition BSP left Bulgaria and we will also support the proposal of colleague Sultan Petrova, as she managed to convince us that the product is a commercial secret, which means that we will not know what its ingredients will be. We believe that in this way her proposal will deprive us of the possibility of using such items in the exhibition you said. That is why we are also expressing our support and we will vote for its proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs from the Patriotic Front for the rejection of § 16 under the importer Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We have just, by a large majority, rejected § 16 by importer. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u78	Madam President, given that this proposal has been adopted and § 16 has been rejected, I propose that the holiday begin now, so that we can clear further back into the Bill dropping out and precise it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u79	Just to clarify that § 19 of the Commission report, which relates to § 16 after we rejected § 16 by importer, cannot have § 19 of the Commission in its version. Keep that in mind when you get together and discuss it. The observations only in the texts after § 19. Paragraph 19 is no longer to be commented or voted on. I'm calling an adjournment at 11:35. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u80	Colleagues, we're ready to continue our work. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. The Commission is giving me a sign that they are ready. Until we get together, allow me to congratulate the guests from Sofronievo village, Miziya Municipality, led by the newly elected mayor of the village of Demira Dimitrova. [[Applause.]] Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u81	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 20:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u82	Excuse me, just to make an explanation, which is important for the shorthand and will be relevant to the final texts. Since it is difficult to monitor the renumbering of the paragraphs at the moment, after the withdrawal of § 19, we read them as they are on the report, and the "Final texts' will accordingly make the adjustment with the renumbering of the paragraphs. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u83	.................................................................................. Article 46 is amended as follows: Art. 46. (1) Whoever stores, offers or sells tobacco products in commercial warehouses or establishments, or new tobacco products in violation of art. 26a, 26c, art. Art. 29, Art. 30, para. 2, p. Art. 1-8 and 10-18, Art. Art. 31, 31a, Art. 35a, para. Art. 1-4, Art. 1-4 Art. 35e-35c, art. 35th, para. Art. 1-4 and 9 and art. 35y, is punished with a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN, accordingly a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 5000 BGN and the charge is from 4000 to 8000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u84	Statements? If there is an editorial amendment now in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u85	We have an editorial amendment in art. 46, para. 1 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u86	- What's the line? I won't. Any other suggestions on the editing or speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the editorial supplement made by Ms. Karayancheva: In art. 46, para. 1 after the words........................................................................................................ We vote on Ms. Karayancheva's proposal. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 20 on the report. I repeat, there will be a corresponding renumbering from the Final Texts. We are now voting on the Commission proposal for § 20, in line with the supplement we have just adopted. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u87	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u88	I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 18, supported entirely by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u89	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u90	Article 1 is amended as follows: 47 to be canceled. The Commission does not support it.............................................................................................. 47 active. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u91	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 19 by importer. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u94	We vote § 20 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u95	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 23. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 or failure to comply with the prescriptions under art. 52a, para. 6, the fine is from 50,000 to 100 000 BGN, and the penalty - from 100 000 to 150 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u96	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 21 by importer in the version of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u97	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51a The following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 35c, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by 2. The creation of para. 3: In cases of infringement under para. 1 The Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco shall inform the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and send a certified copy of the protocol with the facts and circumstances established.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u98	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 22 by importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u99	Under § 23, there is a proposal of the MP Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 23 concerning the creations art. 51b, para. 1 words for growing products for smoking and smoking are deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 51b, 51c and 51d: Art. 51b. (1) Whoever stores, offers or sells electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers as well as herbal smoking products in violation of art. 43a, para. Art. 1, 2 and 6, Art. 43b, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 43c-43i and Art. 43k, para. 1 and 2 is punished with a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN, accordingly a penalty of 2000 to 5000 BGN is imposed. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 5000 BGN and the charge is from 4000 to 8000 BGN. Art. 51c. A person who has violated art. 35b, para. Art. 8 and art. 43k, para. 5, if it is not subject to more severe punishment, it is punished with a fine from 100 to 1000 BGN. Art. 51 C.E. In the event of an infringement or suspected infringement of the Law, the customs authorities shall immediately inform the relevant authority under art. 52, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Madam President, in relation to the rejected § 16, which becomes § 19, there is a proposal for an editorial amendment. It shall be deleted in the first sentence as well as plant smoking articles after art. 43 b, para. 1 is placed the union..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u100	They're dropping 43 to 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u101	It's 43c to 43z. Article 43i and art. 43k, para. 1 and 2 are deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u102	Colleagues, as this provision provides for sanctions for violation of texts in the non-compliance with Chapter 13 "Restives for smoking'. Those texts, which no longer exist. 43th and beyond, 43k and so on, are correct, the proposal which the Commission, after clarification in the interruption, offers us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u103	In 51c there is also a deletion, and art. 43k, para. 5 is deleted;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u104	Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm voting first...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u105	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u106	You withdraw your unsupported because the text is already supported in practice in the version. Ms. Petrova and the group of MPs from the Patriotic Front withdrew the report's unsupported proposal from the Commission, which, however, is supported in this House. I now vote on the editorial amendments made by Ms. Karayancheva: in art. 51b to drop the text as well as herbal tobacco products and after art. 43b, para. 1 to add the Union, art. 43c stays, up to 43z. Instead of 43k, which is more...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u107	43rd.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u108	43z remains...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u109	Art. 43 is out. 43k, para. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u110	I put to the vote Mrs. Karayancheva's proposal for editorial of art. 51b, para. 1. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mrs. Karayancheva's proposal for editorial of art. 51c, in which after para. 8 The Union shall be removed from the Union and Article 8 of the Treaty. 43k, para. 5. Vote 85 MPs: for 85 against and abstentions there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the entire text of § 23 in its version of the report, in line with the two newly adopted decisions on a new version of Mrs Karayancheva's proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u111	Under § 24 there is a proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with Article 24. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 26: § 26. Article 52 is amended as follows: Art. 52. (1) The infringements of the law shall be established by acts consisting of: 1. delegated by the Director of the Ministry of Customs and Staff of Officials for violations under art. Article 46 concerning Art. 46 Art. 32, 35p-35c, art. 35th, para. Art. 1-4 and 9 and art. 35y, et cetera. 49; 2. authorized by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Officials for violations under art. 51a; 3. the directors of the district officials who are responsible for violations under art. 44a and 44b; 4. appointed by the Minister of the Economy officials for violations under art. Article 46 concerning Art. 46 26a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 26c. Article 51b concerning Art. 51b 43a, para. Art. 1, 2 and 6, Art. 43b, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 43h. 43k, para. 1 and 2; 5. authorized by the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection officials - for violations of art. Article 46 concerning Art. 46 Art. 29, Art. 30, para. 2, p. 1.. 8 and 10.. 18........................................................................................ Art. 31, 31a, 35, Art. 35a, para. Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 35f "35o" under art. Art. 50, Art. Article 51b concerning Art. 51b Art. 43c. Art. 43d, Art. Art. 43g "43i" and Art. 43g. 43k, para. 1 and 2. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by: 1. the Director of the Office of Customs................................................................................................................................................................ 1, t. 1; 2. the Minister of Agriculture and Food or by an official authorised by him under para. 1, t. 2 and 3; 3. the Minister of Economy or by an official authorised by him under para. 1, t. 4; 4. the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection or by an official authorised by him under para. 1, t. 5. We have an editorial amendment in connection with the dismissal of § 16, which became § 19. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4.................................................................................. 43b, para. 1 shall be placed the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u112	The other one's off.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u113	Erase the words................................................................................................ 43k, In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after class. Article 51b concerning Art. 51b Art. 43, Art. It's done, and they're out of the way after class. 43d to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u114	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Ms. Karayancheva's proposal. 4 of art. 52, para. 1, after................................................................................................ 43b, para. 1 (c) to read. The text should be deleted and the text should be deleted until the end. 5 after class. Art. 43 (c) to be recorded to art. 43 (c) 43z................................................................................................. 43g, and so on. We are voting on both proposals. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. We are voting on § 24 by importer in the version of the Commission, in line with the decision adopted by us on editorial amendments to the text of the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u115	Paragraph 25. Proposal from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Reply from the PF that the proposal is withdrawn.]] Do we withdraw it? Okay, thanks. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Article 52a is amended as follows: Art. 52a. (1) Control of compliance with the requirements of art. 26a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 26c, Art. Art. 29, Art. 30, para. 2, p. 1.. 8 and 10.. 18........................................................................................ Art. 31, 31a, Art. Art. 35, art. 35a, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 35e "35o," art. 43a, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43, Art. 43k, para. 1 and 2 shall be (2) When as a result of the checks under para. 1 a non-compliance with the requirements of art. 30, para. 2, p. Art. 17 and 18, Art. 35a, para. Art. 1, art. 43e, 43f and 43g, the costs of the inspection shall be borne by checks. Where non-compliance is not established, verification costs shall be borne by the Commission for Consumer Protection. (3) Where tobacco products, new tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, refill containers and plant smoking products are marketed, which do not meet the requirements of art. 26a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 26c, Art. 35a, para. Article 3 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). Art. 35f "35u," art. Art. 43e. 43z and Art. 43e. 43i, the control authorities shall issue a mandatory order to manufacturers, importers and traders to withdraw the items from the market. (4) Where manufacturers, importers and traders fail to comply with the order, the control body shall seize and destroy these items. (5) In cases of infringement of art. 26a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 26c, Art. 43a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 43c, 43d and Art. 43k, para. 1 and 2, the Commission for Consumer Protection shall inform the Ministry of Economy and send a certified copy of the protocol with the facts and circumstances established. (6) When as a result of the checks under para. 1 a non-compliance with the requirements of Art. 1. 35, the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection or an official authorised by him shall issue an order with mandatory prescriptions to remedy the infringement within a specified time limit. (7) In cases where electronic cigarettes and refill containers comply with the requirements of the law, but the Commission for Consumer Protection has good reason to believe that this article may pose a serious risk to human health, it may apply the measures under para. 3. (8) The Commission for Consumer Protection shall inform the European Commission, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and the Ministry of Economy of the measures taken under para. 6 and the reasons for their use. We have an editorial amendment in para. 1. After class. 43a, para. We insert the Union and then into the sentence...................................................................................................... 43 in "43z", art. Art. 43, Art. 43k, para. 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u116	Any other paragraphs? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u117	We've got more. 3, after the cigarette, we remove the comma and put the union........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Article 43 and sssssssssss. is also deleted. In para. Art. 5, Art. 43k, para. 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u118	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mrs Karayancheva for a change in the version of art. 52, para. 1, where 43a is next, para. 1 shall be placed in the Union and read:. Art. 43, Art. Art. 43 (a) Art. 43g. 44k, para. 1 and 2 drop out, in para. 3 is out of the question. 43rd. In para. Five down. 43k, para. One and two. In para. 3 Drops the word and the combination of plant products for smoking. We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. We are voting on § 25 by importer in its new version, which will receive under the Bill the text of the Commission, in line with the changes in para. 1, 3 and 5. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u119	Paragraph 26. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer which is reflected in its systematic place in § 25 and proposes that § 26 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 26 by importer. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u121	Paragraph 27. There is a proposal of the National Representative Sultanka Petrova, which has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u122	No. Initially, there are partly supported proposals. There is an unsupported proposal which in Mrs Petrova's room along with the other colleagues, I understand that they are withdrawing everything. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u123	Unsupported. [[Relations of the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u124	Unsupported by t. 2. Is there a withdrawal of this proposal? [[Field lines]] The proposal is withdrawn from the site said Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u125	Proposal from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. Proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 letters......................................................................................................... 2 letter "in".
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u126	It's withdrawn. They're signaling from a location.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u127	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The term "Additional provision" is amended as follows: "Additional provisions." 2. In § 1: (a) c. 1 sentence 3 is created: "Tuituns' are also tobacco leaves and other natural processed or unprocessed parts of the tobacco plant, including bloated and recovered tobacco. (b) New items shall be created. 5, 6, 7, 8 and 8a: It's five o'clock. "Smoky tobacco products' are tobacco products other than smokeless tobacco products. 6. It is a tobacco product for smoking that can be consumed by a water pipe. If the article can be used both for consumption by water pipe and for manual rolling of cigarettes, it shall be considered to be a tobacco for manual rolling of cigarettes. 7. A new tobacco product is a tobacco product which: (a) does not fall within the scope of point (a). 4a 4e, 4g 4i, etc. 6; (b) has been placed on the market since 19 May 2014. 8. The products concerned are electronic cigarettes, refill containers, nicotine-containing liquids and herbal smoking products. 8a. "Tutunes other than cigarettes and tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes' are articles which fall within the scope of this article. 4b 4d 4f 4i, t. 6 and 7. c) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 9 and amended as follows: Nine. The composition is tobacco, additive and all substances or elements contained in the finished tobacco or related article, including paper, filters, inks, capsules and adhesives. (d) the so-called t. 6 is going to be t. 10 and in it the words "the smoke' shall be replaced by "the smoke'; (e) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is (f) New t is created. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18: ..12. "Emissions' are substances which are released for use in tobacco products and/or related products such as substances in smoke or substances released for use in the use of smokeless tobacco products. 13. "Addministrative' is a substance other than tobacco added to the tobacco product to its consumer packaging or to any external packaging. 14. The flavour enhancer is an additive that gives smell and/or taste. 15. "Purple flavor-flavoured qualities' are clearly catchable smell or taste other than that of tobacco obtained from an additive or a combination of additives, including but not limited to fruit, spice, herb, alcohol, sugar product, menthol or vanilla, which is felt before or during the use of the tobacco product. 16. The maximum emission level is the maximum content or emissions of a substance in a tobacco product, including zero, measured in milligrams. 17. The risk of addiction is the pharmacological potential of a substance to lead to addiction a condition affecting the human's ability to control its behaviour, usually creating a sense of satisfaction or relief of withdrawal symptoms, or both. 18. The extent to which a substance may have an adverse effect on the human organism, including the effects occurring over time, usually due to prolonged or prolonged use or exposure to the substance concerned, is the extent to which a substance may have an adverse effect on the human organism; (g) the current t. 8 becomes t. 19 and amended as follows: "19." supplier packaging is the smallest single packaging of a tobacco product and/or related article to be placed on the market.supplier is the smallest single packaging of a tobacco product and/or related article to be placed on the market. (h) the current t. 8a becomes t. 20 and is amended as follows: It's 20. supplier packaging for hand-wrote deliveries is the smallest single packaging that a manufacturer, importer or wholesaler delivers to retailers holding a marketing authorisation for tobacco products. In cases where the consumer packaging of hand-wrapped cigars from limited editions gives added value as a result of its special workmanship or the value of the material in it, then the outer packaging of the particular product shall be accepted as a consumer packaging. (i) create t. 21 - 31: ..21. "Limited edition" under the heading "Limited edition" under the heading "Limited edition" 20 is a product which is produced in a limited or specified quantity for a specific period of time and is intended exclusively for collectors. 22. "External packaging' means any packaging in which tobacco and related products are placed on the market and which includes one consumer packaging or a set of consumer packaging. Transparent packaging is not considered as outer packaging. 23. It is a user pack of tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes in the form of a rectangular pocket with a lid covering the opening or an upright package. 24. A health warning is a warning about the adverse effects on human health or other adverse effects of the use of a tobacco product, which includes text warnings, combined health warnings, general warnings and information messages, according to art. 35z, para. Art. 1, art. 35k, para. Art. 1, art. 35l, para. Art. 1, art. 35 m, para. Art. 1, art. 43z, para. Art. 4 and art. 43rd, para. 1 and Annex 3a. 25. "Combined health warning' means a health warning consisting of a combination of a text warning under Annex 3a and a corresponding photo from the image gallery under Annex 3b. 26. supplier is a natural person who acts for purposes outside of his business or professional activity. 27. "Manufacturer of tobacco and/or related products' is a natural or legal person who manufactures a product or entrusts it to create or manufacture it and who makes it available on the market under its name or trademark. 28. The import of tobacco or related products is the introduction into the territory of the European Union of tobacco and/or related products, except where such items are placed under a customs procedure or deferred payment regime when entering them into the territory of the European Union, as well as their release from a customs procedure or a deferred payment regime. 29. The importer of tobacco or related articles shall be the owner or person who has the right to dispose of tobacco or related products which have been introduced into the territory of the European Union. 30. It is a presentation, provision or supply of tobacco and related products, regardless of where they are manufactured, to consumers in the Republic of Bulgaria for free of charge or for free, including by distance selling, cross-border distance sales and sales by using information society services. 31. The commercial retail site is a commercial establishment within the meaning of art. 90b, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses in which tobacco products are placed on the market. k) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is (l) the current t. 10 becomes t. 33 and finally added m) the current t. 11 is going to be a t. 34 and finally added s/or related to it. n) Previously on N. 12, 13 and 14 become ct, respectively. 35, 36 and 37; (o) create a t. 38-46: "38." The economic operator is a manufacturer, importer and distributor of tobacco and/or related products or its authorised representative, as well as any trader within the meaning of the Commercial Law, engaged in wholesale trade of tobacco and/or related products. 39. It is a product based on plants, herbs or fruits which does not contain tobacco and which can be consumed by a combustion process. 40. An electronic cigarette is a device that can be used for the consumption of nicotine-containing money by means of a mouthpiece or component of that article, including a cartridge and tank, and the device without a cartridge or tank. Electronic cigarettes may be used for single use or for repeated use by means of a refill container and tank, or refilled by single use cartridges. 41. A multi-charger is a liquid container containing nicotine that can be used to recharge an electronic cigarette. 42. A violation of the Code of Conduct is committed by three or more infringements of the same type during a two-year period for which administrative penalties have been imposed on the person with criminal decrees entered into force. 43. "Changed tobacco product' is a product whose composition is changed in a way that affects the information provided under art. 35b, para. 1, t. 1-3. 44. The use of the device in accordance with the information provided in the instructions for use and storage of the device shall be normal conditions of use. 45. The use of the device in a manner specified in the instructions for use and storage of the device may be the result of predictable human behaviour. 46. "Transverse distance sale' is a distance sale to consumers who, at the time of ordering tobacco or related product, are located in the Republic of Bulgaria and order from a retail outlet which is established in another Member State of the European Union or a third country; the retail outlet is considered to be established in a Member State of the European Union: (a) in the case of a natural person, if his place of business is in the same Member State; (b) in other cases, if there is a seat and address of management, central management or place of business, including a branch, representation or other business unit, in the same Member State. 3. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the 1. Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC; 2. Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a gallery of warnings in the form of images to be used for tobacco products (OJ L 360/22 of 17 December 2014).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). There are editorial corrections in connection with the dropout.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u128	The first one is t. Seven?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u129	There's a t. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u130	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Seven letter, there's four g...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u131	Yeah, in the end, there's a 4th. It's 43. There's none here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u132	Yeah, not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u133	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8, after the multiple charge, the Union shall be placed and shall be: the multi-filling and the liquids containing The other one is deleted. The other one is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u134	It's 8 o'clock. Products related to the tobacco products are electronic cigarettes, refill containers, liquids containing the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u135	Yes, but before the customs, the Union must be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u136	Yeah. The text is deleted and the plant smoking products.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u137	Yeah. Then in t. 24, the preceding sentence, after......................................................................................................... 35 m, para. 1 The comma is dropped and the union is placed and the text is deleted.......................................................................................................... 43rd, para. 1.................................................................................. After class. 35 m, para. 1 The comma is dropped, the union is added. 43z, para. 4. "Supposed to. " And "Annex 3a. " remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u138	Any other lyrics?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u139	Point 39 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u140	It's off. 39? There's no legal definition, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u141	Then renumber all other points.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u142	And inside the contents of the dots, there's no change?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u143	No change.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u144	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the vote Ms. Karayancheva's editorial proposals. Before that, there are no unsupported texts. We are voting on the editorial proposals for amendments made by Ms. Karayancheva just now. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are voting on the proposal for § 27 as an importer in the version of the Commission report, in line with the amendments adopted just now on Mrs Karayancheva's proposal. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u145	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 28, which becomes § 29, by proposing that the points at the end of the text warnings be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u146	Statements? I won't. We vote Annex 3a to art. 35k, para. 2, p. 1. This is the list of text warnings with the Commission's proposal after the text warning to drop the points at the end of the text. We are voting on the proposal on the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. This proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u147	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u148	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, we accept the proposal by importer for § 29, supported by the Commission, and this is Annex 3b to art. 35k, para. 2, p. 1 supplied groups, a gallery of images, extremely unpleasant for smokers. We vote. They voted 86 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u150	We vote § 30 by importer. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u151	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u152	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u153	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) When the Banderol is attached to the upper corner of the cardboard packaging, the combined health warning under art. 35k, para. 1 which is to be placed on the back of the packaging may be placed under the Banderola by 20 May 2019. (2) When the packaging is made of soft material, a rectangular area of not more than 13 mm between the upper edge of the packaging and the beginning of the combined health warnings may be maintained for the Banderola until 20 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u154	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 31 by importer in the version of the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u155	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ For electronic cigarettes and refill containers which have been manufactured or placed on the market by 20 May 2016, manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, electronic cigarettes and refill containers shall notify by 20 November 2016 under the conditions and under the terms of art. 43a, para. 1-4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u156	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 32 by importer in the version of the Commission on the report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, this proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u157	Under § 33 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. Tobacco products which do not comply with the requirements of this Law are labelled in accordance with the Ordinance on labelling requirements, marking and layout of tobacco products and laying down standards for the assessment of the conformity of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide content in tobacco products (not applicable, SG No. ...) and have been produced or released for free circulation until 20 May 2016, may continue to be placed on the market until the quantities are exhausted, but not later than 20 May 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u158	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 33 by importer in the version of the Commission on the report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted this text as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u159	Under § 34 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with Article 34. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. Electronic cigarettes or refill containers which do not comply with the requirements of this Act and are produced or released for free circulation by 20 November 2016 may continue to be placed on the market until the quantities are exhausted, but not later than 20 May 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u160	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 34 by importer in the version of the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u161	I withdraw the proposal I made under § 35, because it is in connection with § 16, which became § 19 and which we did not accept
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u162	Once it has been withdrawn, there is no way for it to be a separate paragraph................................................................................................................. We're going to § 36 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u163	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Article 30, para. 2, p. 18 shall apply to tobacco products of characteristic flavour as from 20 May 2020, if it is found that throughout the European Union the volume of sales of tobacco products of characteristic flavour is equal to three or more per cent for a given product category.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u164	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 36 by importer in the version of the Commission on the report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u165	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, tobacco products shall provide the information referred to in Article 20 November 2016 by 20 November 2016. 35b, para. 1 for tobacco products placed on the market by 20 May 2016 (2) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, new tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or refill containers shall notify by 20 November 2016. The Ministry of Economy of the new tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or refill containers which have been placed on the market by 20 November 2016. The notification shall be made under the conditions laid down in art. Art. 26a. 43a, para. 1-4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u166	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 37 by importer, re-edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, this proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u167	A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: ####37a: #######################################################################################################################:############################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################################### sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The funds for the implementation of the new competences assigned by law to the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products shall be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u168	Statements? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! In the Commission, we had a debate on the proposal for the implementation of the Law and the additional budget needed to implement the main new competences of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco products. The Institute is a scientific organisation that receives funding only for the implementation of scientific projects in respect of the activities entrusted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The adoption of this Law and the application of this Directive confers on the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products exclusive new activities relating to the assessment of the composition and emissions of tobacco, data collection, reporting to the European Commission; moreover, the preparation of reasoned opinions on compliance of new tobacco products with the requirements of the amendments to the Tobacco and Tobacco Act. The new tasks put before the Institute give us reason to believe that unless an additional budget has been provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to carry out these functions, the entire bill or the entire activity relating to the implementation of the Directive will not be implemented. We therefore insist on paying attention and accepting our proposal for a budget to implement the new competences of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco products, as Bulgaria is still responsible to the European Commission for what it has done on the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u170	Any lines to Mrs. Bachvarova? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, there really was a debate. If you remember, we finally concluded with the decision that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Economy will prepare an estimate of the necessary funds. This was confirmed by the representative of the Ministry of Finance at the Commission meeting. So basically, I have commissioned these two ministries to prepare estimates of the necessary funds that we will provide to the Ministry of Finance to seek a solution to the matter. There's no way to write it down here at least because we have a budget that's been adopted, and we can't talk about an update. There will be another way to finance the Institute. Otherwise, yes, we are adding additional work to the Institute, but we took it into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u172	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Hristov, I accept that the 2016 budget has been adopted and no adjustments are expected, but the necessary estimates for the implementation of the directive must be made for the following budgets. In my opinion, if it is not recorded imperatively in the Law that additional funds are needed, apart from the Department of Science, for which the Institute receives financial support, a subsidy, there may at some point be problems regarding the support and financing of the Institute for those activities that are involved in the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 80 MPs: 19 against 21 abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u175	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall bring its implementing regulations into line with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u176	Since I do not see anyone who wishes to speak, I shall put to the vote § 38 to be an importer in its version of the Commission's report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Due to the fact that tomorrow's parliamentary control has been announced at 9.00 and I will not be able to do so, I am making a procedure for extending the deadline for proposals between first and second reading under the General Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber of the Maximum Four Weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u178	A counteroffer? I won't. We vote on the proposal for a maximum increase in the period between first and second readings for proposals under the General Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, which Mrs Damyanova proposed to us. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a little earlier today Mrs. Karayancheva withdrew her proposal under § 35 by importer, which is related to plant smoking products, and for this reason I did not put to the vote the Commission's version after its withdrawal. However, it remains art. 35 by importer, which refers to herbal smoking products, and none anymore in the Bill after we rejected the new chapter by importer, which is why I have to put to the vote and reject the proposal of art. 35 by importer. It reads: .............................................................................. Smoking plant products produced or admitted freely on the market before 20 May 2016 may be placed on the market until the quantities are exhausted but not later than 20 May 2017 This text cannot remain because we have completely banned the use of plant products for smoking. I propose to your attention that we vote to reject § 35 by importer. [[Replication of the rapporteur Tsveta Karayancheva away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u179	Not rejection. So I leave it § 35, as by importer, and in order to reject it, it must be voted against.................................................................................................. Vote 88 MPs: 23, against 50, abstention 15. Paragraph 35 by importer is rejected. We're going back to § 39 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u180	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 39 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u181	Statements? I won't. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u182	The Commission proposes to create new § 40 and § 41: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In the Law on sowing and planting material in art. 1, para. 2 the words "and' shall be replaced by the words "touchs and related'. § 41. In the Food Act in art. 2, para. 3, p. 6 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u183	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the Commission's proposal for new paragraphs with numbers 40 and 41. They will accordingly have a new numbering on the Commission report after complying with the changes we have made on it. We are voting for amendments to the Law on Planting and Planting Materials and the Law on Food. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u184	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. Paragraph 5, § 7 concerning Art. 30, para. 2, p. 12 and so on. Article 18 (8) concerning Art. Art. 31a, § 9 32, para. 2, § 10 "16" and § 17 relating to art. 35f "35o" § 18 "20" § 22 "27" and § 29 "38" which shall enter into force on 20 May 2016; 2 paragraph 17 concerning art. 35p "35u" which shall enter into force from: (a) 20 May 2019 For the production and sale of cigarettes and tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes; (b) 20 May 2024 For the manufacture and sale of tobacco products other than cigarettes and tobacco for the manual rolling of cigarettes. Here we have an editorial amendment: § 18.20 becomes § 18 and 20 and there will be renumbered paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u185	It is necessary to make a link between this numbering of the paragraphs 18 to 20 with the new numbering to be received by the texts of the Law after they come out of the Final Texts. Therefore, the request is to take into account the numbering, because we may not be precise in the indication of the paragraphs. The text of the Commission will be put to the vote in accordance with what will be done in the final version of the texts for the relevant paragraphs. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 40 by importer, which shall become the paragraph with a certain numbering on our report, and shall also take into account the renumbering of the paragraphs on this report, the result of the votes we have carried out and their results in the Chamber. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The text has been adopted, and with this at second reading and the entire Bill. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR CREDITS OF INCOMPONSIBILITIES OF CONVERSORS. This is an extension of 24 March 2016. The reports of the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs are presented. There was a statement by Mr. Georgi Turnovalysky. The debates on the Bill are not closed. There's a statement request from Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u186	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]] If I could just get a little order in here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u187	It is desirable that order be more in the room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u188	However, this Law is extremely important. I have had preliminary talks with some of my colleagues from GERB, and I would like to thank you for your understanding, as I repeat, the bill is extremely important. Moreover, it defines the development of the state in the future 25 years. In fact, I hope they've read it more than they have read it, because this Law, I will immediately state that we of the Patriotic Front will support it. It is in accordance with Directive 2014/17, which was adopted February last year. It is glad that the European Commission has also awakened to these serious problems. From this point of view, I would just like to mark some of the important issues, as this directive was created to facilitate the construction of a well-functioning internal market with a high level of consumer protection and to be more understandable, I will say briefly, of mortgage loans. However, the obligation of Member States to transpose Directive 2014/17 from February 2014 is limited to credit agreements concluded with consumers and I open a clamp here, individuals. In addition to the mechanical transmission of texts from the directive, however, we want to address some weaknesses in the Law, which, I repeat, we will support. First of all, the disadvantage of the Bill is that no definition of a consumer is adopted as it is extended precisely in the directive itself, that is to say, double-purpose contracts concluded by one person where the contract is concluded for purposes and partly within the framework of business and professional activity, should also be considered as consumers. In order to understand some of what the speech is about, for example, about, so to put it more intelligible, personal doctors who, in addition to being sole traders, are also performing professional work and as such, can obtain mortgage credit as a natural person, but, notice, this credit will need, for example, to equip the office in which they carry out their professional activity. It is similar to the situation with lawyers, journalists, people who exercise free professions at all. In addition, the draft law provides for an obligation for creditors and credit intermediaries to provide, upon request, additional interpretations with the information provided by a European standardised information form and on everything related to the loans offered. And here, honourable Members, it is sad to see the second weakness of the Bill as it does not require that these explanations be recorded in order to prove their implementation. Usually this weakness, which has been observed over the years, becomes visible when you as a user, or your close relative, become the victim of precisely the failure to apply this practice and the inability to prove that it has been applied. For this reason, this part of the activity must be recorded. A third weakness, which is, unfortunately, already essential, is an important retreat, because with the Consumer Credits Act on the nullity of the credit agreement, the mortgage loan law project takes one huge step back and this is in terms of declaring contracts as minor due to failure to comply with relevant clauses concerning the Consumer Protection Act. This is extremely important if we want to have a working law and if we want to restore people's trust. I'll explain later why I'm taking these weaknesses into account. In addition, it should be paid particular attention here that this retreat is particularly affecting the methodology by which the variable interest rate is calculated, so called the rate of reference and the project does not retain the penalty for nullity of the contract in the absence of a clause in it, something which is extremely important and which I must pay particular attention to all colleagues. In order to avoid these abuses, the legislation was reformed in 2014 and it was envisaged that banks should specify in the credit agreements the calculation procedure. Now this thing is becoming a huge step backwards to the detriment of consumers, and the directive itself has been created precisely to ensure greater consumer protection and to be able to restore confidence in this area. Instead, contracts are to be declared null and void, in such cases a penalty of 20 to 40 thousand is to be imposed. BGN, which, believe me, will in no way make banking institutions more disciplined, especially when it comes to mortgage loans, where their duration is between 15 and 30 years, that is, you see for what long period in the future we need to predict some well-functioning texts. Fourth weakness The Law introduces an obligation of creditors within their internal rules to provide for procedures for the submission of objections, that is to say something extremely important for voluntary, extrajudicial resolution of such disputes. Now, I would like to ask you, colleagues, any of you think about having created a so-called............................................................................................... Because I don't know. There is none, but this is the world practice through which such an institution is created for the out-of-court resolution of these disputes, which is the cheapest for both the consumer and the credit institution, and for the credit intermediaries, something that is not in the Bill is not foreseen, and unfortunately, there is not even a talk about who will constitute such a body. There is a great risk that this body will be constituted by one decree, possibly on BNB and ask yourself: how equal will a creditor and borrower be? We see weakness here, too. Finally, in order to make it clear to you from this point of view, as the Consumer Protection Act provides for such options for an out-of-court solution to these problems, which, notice, have a binding and executive character. In this direction, however, a correction should be made both in the Civil Procedure Code and in art. 404, because in these cases the consumer is no longer equal, as there is no possibility in such decisions to obtain an executive list and to implement the decision in implementation. That is, at some point it turns out that much of the good intentions in the Law are not applicable. Why do I pay attention to these things, fellow Members? Because this bill in the first place is extremely important for the economic, social and demographic development of Bulgaria. First of all, this Bill with its proper and good functioning enables the development of the housing market. Secondly, it gives security in our young, growing generation, which, sadly, in most part left Bulgaria and we need to give it security and confidence that it will be able to safely acquire a home, pay it off and have security. And thirdly, it was no accident that I said: this is the Law through which we can dramatically combat the demographic crisis, bringing young people back from abroad to Bulgaria. I pay particular attention to you, I am even a little surprised that this bill was not the lead of the Law Commission, as there are very serious legal institutes in it......................................................................................... And such frauds are many, now I don't want to comment on them. We have already prepared texts between first and second readings, but, believe me, such frauds are many and they come exactly through the wording of who is a user and who is not. A large part of the so-called incorrect construction companies are using this mechanism to obtain credit, to sell afterwards homes......................................................... and in Sofia, Ruse, Varna, Burgas............................................................................... We have a serious task to make possible working, and it well-functioning this Law, which will give balanced relations between banking institutions and borrowers, which is extremely important for the good functioning of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u189	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to vote. [[Noise and lines.]] My fellow Members, there is movement in this Chamber, so I'm waiting on purpose. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill on consumer real estate loans, No 602 01 6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u190	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedure for extending the period between the first and second votes on this bill. As I have already said, colleagues and colleagues from GERB also agreed there are very complex legal and economic institutions in the Law, for which it is necessary for in-depth expertise and analysis to be able to be cleared as well between the first and second votes as my proposal is to be extended by two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u191	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to increase by two more weeks the deadline for proposals under the Real Estate Credit Bill to consumers. They voted 86 MPs: 43, against 19, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u192	Thank you, Madam President. I see other colleagues came in. Colleagues, I would like to reiterate: we want only two weeks of extension, as there are very complex legal and economic institutes in this Law and there must be a little more time for experts to have coordination and ultimately consensus solutions for proposals between first and second readings, which is correct and I ask you to support my proposal. One week is an insufficient deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u193	It's a re-vote. They voted 93 MPs: 44, against 23, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Let's continue with: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of furniture and parts of buildings and parts of buildings. On yesterday are presented the reports of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs. We are about to hear the Commission's report on monitoring the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Mr. Yevgeny Stoev will present him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u194	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 March 2016. At its meeting held on 17 March 2016, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the KEWRC discussed a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the plumbing sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Natalia Dimitrova, consultant at the Department of Water and Sewerage and Mrs. Kristina Stoyanova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Dimitrova. The Agreement on Consulting Services with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed on 23 February 2016. It is the third consecutive Agreement on Consulting Services in the field of the water sector between the MRB and the World Bank and as well as the previous two, will be financed under Operational Programme "Environment 2014 - 2020." A grant agreement was signed within which funding was provided, amounting to 3 million. leva. The activities under this contract are divided into three areas and result from measures set out in the Action Plan of the Strategy for the Development and Management of Water and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2023. Consulting services are designed to support the creation of conditions, mechanisms and capacity in the water sector aimed at increasing the efficiency of the services provided, preparing a financing strategy for the industry and mechanisms for reducing the impact of prices, as a result of industry reform and accelerated investments. The latter main area is related to support, building the Commission's capacity for energy and water regulation to implement new pricing regulations and the quality of water services, implementing these regulations, reviewing business plans, building the system for monitoring and verification of data. The presentation of the Bill was followed by a discussion within which opposition was raised by the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva against the need to assist the World Bank in determining price policy in the water sector. Following the end of the discussion, a vote shall be taken. The results of the vote are:... 12 votes..... 1 vote.............................................................................................. As a result of the discussion and voting, the Committee for Monitoring the Activities of the KEWRC proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services for Development and Strategy for Financing, Strengthening the Regulatory Capacity and Enhancing the Efficiency of Services in the Water Sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u195	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u196	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Ivanka Videnova
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u197	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The debate is open. Here's your speech, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u198	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I think we should support this agreement, ratify it today. The only thing I regret is that the bill has not been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. Obviously, since we are talking about the Operational Programme "Environment", about the priority axis "Waters", our Commission headed by President Stanislav Ivanov could be useful, with debates held in the Commission that would be useful. I would like to make some observations. If President Tsacheva considers it possible, Vanya Videnova could give some insights to something that would otherwise happen in the Commission. As mentioned in the reports, this is the third consecutive agreement between the World Bank and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. It took place after the then Forty-First National Assembly adopted the National Strategy and Action Plan for the Development and Management of our Water Sector in November 2012. The second agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the MRF was followed by hard work. As a result on 7 March 2014, the Council of Ministers adopted the Strategy for the Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria. The agreement, which we will ratify shortly, provides consultancy services that can be useful. The areas and components are correctly identified. The preparation of a financing strategy for the industry would undoubtedly be useful with the additions to be made. The strategy for development and management of water supply and sewerage also included such financing mechanisms, there were pricing mechanisms proposed to enable recovery of investments and costs while supporting socially weak households. According to different estimates for the water sector in this Strategy, it was noted that it needed 7,5 billion. lv. up to 2023, of which 3.2 billion lv. to be from the European Union as a grant, 3.2 billion. lv. from the budget and 1.1 billion lv. from the water sector, including by raising water service prices. That's the most fragile question, fellow Members. It is also a political issue.. raising prices. The social tolerance threshold has been changed recently. This means that the water sector accounts should not exceed 2,5% of the average household income in different areas. For Northwestern Bulgaria at least one fifth of the population and at this threshold of tolerance cannot pay the water service bills. In this sense, here my question to my colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRDP) would be: well, there will be recommendations, they will be well drawn up. Here we read from the Agreement: Variants to improve the quality of services, increase the price of water services, how they will affect the tolerability of prices and so on. These are all the right plays, but what if it turns out that these recommendations are not adopted afterwards, as it actually happened in 2014? Two years have already passed since this period of 2014 - 2023. Have you noticed particularly large investments in the water sector? That means there's an understatement, colleagues. It is undeniable that such an agreement would help clear up the issues, but I would also call on colleagues not to underestimate the water sector, including those plays that we will then see in the recommendations. To comply with them, to call on the government to comply, as there was also an idea in one of the previous options of the Energy and Water Regulatory Strategy to divide the Commission into two regulators for energy and water regulation separately. Something that I think is right and that hasn't been accepted either. By calling on my fellow Members to support this ratification, I would like, if possible, to also get an answer to these questions: how soon can we really follow the recommendations, because we have strategies that are very often without action, even when there is an action plan, sometimes called with the foreign action plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u199	Dear Mr. Velikov, as regards your question, why has this ratification not been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water? In cases where a permanent committee considers that a bill is relevant to its subject-matter, there is a procedural possibility in the Rules of Procedure that this bill should also be allocated to it within three days. There is no such request, which is why there is no procedure for the committee concerned to discuss this ratification within the time limit already expired. Secondly, my major objection to you is that the MPs, when discussing a ratification bill, do not have the opportunity to propose, ask questions and receive answers on the issue of the agreement, the specific agreement referred to in the bill. The procedure for voting on a bill should not be confused with the preparation of a bilateral or multilateral agreement, such as the Act under which this ratification procedure takes place. So there is no other option for us as MPs to support or not support the bill, but we do not have a mechanism to influence the content of the specific agreement for which ratification is required.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u200	Can I say something?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u201	You can, of course, come in. Assume that my line was to Mr. Veliv, although from where I'm standing, it's not right to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u202	This procedure is between a respected current President of the National Assembly and a former one on issues related to the water sector, undoubtedly interesting for colleagues. I think, Madam President, that since you are distributing, I am sorry that I will criticize you a little bit, but this is still about the Operational Programme Whether we are going to put forward any reasonable proposals to comply with those who will then develop their advisory services is another matter, but in the committees on which it could become a real debate. Moreover, in our Commission, under the chairmanship of Mr. Ivanov, we have other colleagues who have dealt with water and could be useful. Let's put aside my personal experience in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u203	Thank you. You, too, as a member of this Commission and in part of its leadership, could ask for an official knowledge of the content. I welcome you therefore, although the Bill has not been assigned to your Commission, you are entitled as a competent specialist to be excited about the content of this Agreement. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u204	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, I will begin with the question that has brought forward my esteemed representative. Maybe this water loan is more important than water money? It is good when an importer offers the National Assembly to ratify a loan, to be present here and to say how the money was spent from a previous such a thematic loan, because the first water loan obliged the country and gave disastrous results. Sofia had to reduce the losses with the money paid by the Bulgarian people. The sewer network had to be replaced, a large part of Sofia's plumbing and flooring had to be replaced. A company that won the concession then, acquired the loan, paid it the people, the losses remained and today they are paid. In the very short part of my remaining statement, I would like to ask the importer: by paying the so-called Master Plans on which this loan is to be made, are they able to come here and say these results against the money spent on the master plans are the reliable basis on which this money will be built and spent? If we do not make this approach, we will continue to spend more on certain activities than are the results we receive. I call on an importer to answer this question: are the results relevant and can they be the basis on which to continue the work of optimizing the water sector and that this money will be taken and realized for reliable consultations? [[Conversations between MPs in BSP LB and Irena Kotseva.]] But don't distract him so he can hear the minister's representative and answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u205	Please don't engage in dialogue with each other! Any lines to Mr. Bojinov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. On behalf of the importer, would anyone like to take an attitude? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and strategy for financing and strengthening regulatory capacities and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the sector of VIK and between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016. This bill is by No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016. Vote 94 MPs: 80, against 12, abstention 2. Ratification was voted at first reading. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u206	Madam President, honourable Members! I am also making a procedural proposal to vote on the Agreement at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u207	I shall also put to the vote the proposal to hold a second vote. During today's plenary day, no proposals have been made for amendments to the debate on the first vote. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 11, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zelenogorski, your Commission is the leader. The second vote report will introduce us to Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016. A single member. Rehabilitating the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the plumbing sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u209	Thank you. Colleagues, are there any speeches on the second vote? I won't. I put to the second vote the ratification bill, which has just been proposed to us at second reading by Mr. Zelenogorski. Vote 96 MPs: 82, against 12, abstention 2. Ratification was accepted at second reading. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedure to remove the next item from the agenda, and I believe that everyone who voted at the beginning of this plenary week was aware that this item simply does not belong to the plenary at this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u211	I only recall that now we are about to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, with importers Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I am amazed by this proposal of yours.. This procedure you have made, as it is very clear that this point in the weekly program entered within the meaning of art. 50, para. 3. The Members of the National Assembly have indeed shown understanding and reason to accept this provision. You yourself have repeatedly stated that this is a matter that has long been waiting for its decision. Two previous parliaments adopted the Law at first reading. Now we've given the Ministry of Interior enough time and time. For three and a half months, they have been hovering and looking for a technical solution to the issue. You, respectively, in the Internal Commission, deliberately did not hold meetings, waiting for the opinion of the Ministry of Interior. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior has arrived and it is positive and positive. If you really want to postpone this question... It's not more than $150,000. BGN, to solve a long-standing problem of people with auditory and speech impairment. I don't understand this stubbornness. Leave me, leave the colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria. This is not a matter of politics, but it is really about 100 - 120 thousand Bulgarian citizens whose law is violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u213	I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal to drop point 11 of our weekly programme. Vote 96 MPs: 68, against 23, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u214	Madam President, honourable Members! Please re-vote. I could not vote, but I could not understand again the schizophrenic behavior of GERB once supported him with the clear awareness that he would not enter, then rejected him...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u215	When did we support him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u216	We didn't support him. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u217	Colleagues, take a medicine. I suggest a re-vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u218	Mr. Ermenkov, as an insult to MPs, you know what's coming next, I'm paying attention to you. I'm rethinking the procedure proposed by Mr. Tsvetanov. Vote 96 MPs: 66, against 24, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 25 March 2016, Friday 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-24.u219	Honourable Members, on 25 March 2016 at 9:00, according to the weekly programme of the 43rd National Assembly will answer questions and questions of Members of the National Assembly: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. 2. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer two questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev; and Dimitar Delchev and two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; and Stefan Kenov and Chavdar Peychev. 3. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer six questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov; Dimitar Tanev; Yavor Haytov; Slavi Binev; Martin Dimitrov; and Georgi Kadiev and 1 question from the people Slavi Binev. 4. Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer five questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] ; Petar Kadiev; Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov; Borislav Iglev. 5. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 33 questions from the MPs with one agreement: within 2 pure astronomical hours, because the questions are 33: Manol Genov [[3 questions]] ; Mihail Mikov; Jevdet Chakarov; Yavor Haytov; Nastimir Ananiev [[2 questions]] ; Mariana Boyadjieva; Georgi Kadiev; Velizar Enchev; Borislav Iglev [[two questions]] ; Dimitar Tanev; Georgi Turnovaliski; Filip Popov; Ivan Penkov Ivanov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Bozhinov; Tasko Ermenkov; Yanaki Stoilov; Vasil Antonov; Iskren Veselinov; Dimitar Danev and Mariana Boyadjieva; Durhan Mustafa [[three questions]] ; Dragomir Stoynev and Georgi Gokov; Hasan Ademov; Milen Mihov; Emil Raynov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. 6. The Minister of Transport... Again, Mrs. Pavlova will be in charge of cleaning up 120 minutes as she fits in with these two hours. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Kiril Kalfin and Evgeni Stoev; Vasil Antonov; Georgi Turnovalyski; Boris Yachev; Georgi Gokov [[two questions]] ; and Velizar Enchev and a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. 7. Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer five questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] ; Georgi Kadiev; Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; and Velizar Enchev and two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Nino; and Slavi Binev. 8. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer six questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov; Tasco Ermenkov; Atanas Zafirov; Petar Slavov; Ivan Valkov; and Antony Trenchev and 1 question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov. 9. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 11 questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] ; Nastimir Ananiev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Boyka Marinska; Dimitar Shishkov; Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev; Philip Popov; Yanaki Stoilov [[two questions]] ; and Vassil Antonov and a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 10. Culture Minister Vejdi Rashidov will answer 11 questions from MPs Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] ; Slavi Binev; Ivan Slavov Ivanov; Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] ; Vasil Antonov [[two questions]] ; Georgi Gokov; Georgi Turnovaliski; and Antony Trenchev. 11. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] ; and Georgi Kuchukov. 12. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer six questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev; Atanas Stoyanov; Vili Lilkov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Boris Yachev; and Svetoslav Belemezov and Ivan Stankov. 13. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer two questions from the MPs Manol Genov; and Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Velizar Enchev; and Petar Slavov and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on four issues by the MPs Kalina Balabanova; Velizar Enchev [[two questions]] ; and Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva? a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Krasen Krastev and Petya Avramova; and Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions written by the MPs Georgi Svilenski; and Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question by the National Representative Emil Raynov; and to a question written by the National Representative Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the MP Metodi Andreyev to the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva. Due to an international meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. My fellow Members, due to the expiry of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
