ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Registration mode, please. Please abort registration. There's no quorum. Second attempt at 9:30 p.m. Discovered at 9:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u2	Please take your seats, colleagues. Registration mode, please. I'm opening the session. [[Ringing]] There is a quorum. Message. On 26 October 2016, the National Assembly received an opinion on the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted on 8 October 2016 by the National Representative Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The opinion is made available to the Committee on Legal Affairs and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with point one for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR AUTOMOBILITY TRANSFERS. Importers are the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. On 7 October 2016, Mr. Ivan Valkov and Mr. Stanislav Ivanov took part in the project. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to make a procedure for admission in the hall of Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency. z: Honourable Members, voting regime for admission in the Chamber. Vote 109 MPs: 105 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Borisov and Mr. Kalajdzhiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u4	I'll start with the report on the Council of Ministers' Bill. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 602-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 September 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 602-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev. The amendments and additions proposed by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act provide for measures to implement Regulation (EU) No 165/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on tachographs in road transport, repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 3821/85 on recording equipment for road transport traffic data and amending Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of certain provisions of social legislation relating to road transport. The new changes are related to the introduction of smart tachographs related to the global navigation satellite system, which will make it possible to automatically record the location of the vehicle by the control authorities' employees, as well as the introduction of mandatory training of the control authorities of the Member States of the European Union, on the analysis of the data recorded by the tachographs and their control. The other amendments to the Road Transport Act concern the conditions for licensing for the carriage of passengers or goods; the grounds for refusal of authorisation and for termination of licensing, as well as the conditions for registration for the taxi transport of passengers and the refusal of registration. It is proposed to introduce a restriction on licences which may receive the same person. It is envisaged that the same carrier can have only two public transport licences.. one for the carriage of passengers and one for the transport of goods. It was explained by the importers of the Bill that, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1071/2009, the conditions for granting the two types of licence are the same, but the rights granted by both types of licence are different. The difference between the two licences is only in terms of the territorial scope of the rights granted by them. The Community licence empowers the carrier to carry out transports both within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and international transports, while the licence to carry out transports in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria can only be carried out on the territory of the country. The bill provides to supplement the ground for refusing to grant a licence for the public transport of passengers or cargo to a trader who has already had a licence and has been revoked over the last two years. The proposal is a refusal not only when the license of the same trader (vehicle) has been revoked but also when the licence of a related person with the trader applying for a licence has been revoked. The importers argued that that measure is intended to be effectively implemented by limiting the possibility of persons related to the same carrier to be entitled to carry out the activity, the rights to carry out which they were suspended for infringements in respect of which the carrier was responsible. A similar ground for refusal is also provided for in connection with the registration for the carriage of passengers by taxi. Another amendment of the Law relates to the grounds for withdrawing certified copies of the Community licence and certificates for the public transport of motor vehicles where the number is greater than the number of vehicles with Bulgarian registration available to the carrier or where the number of copies of the licence or certificates issued is greater than the number of vehicles for which the carrier can prove financial stability. The bill also sets out changes relating to the award of transports by established route schedules on bus lines. The definitions of the Republican and regional transport scheme are changed, which aims to make the texts clearer and more accurate without changing the concepts of substance. It is also proposed to provide for the possibility for the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to authorise an official to validate the Republican Transport Scheme. One part of the amendments and additions proposed by the Bill are also related to the sanctions provided for in the administrative penal provisions, the powers of the control bodies under the Road Transport Act and the proceedings for the identification of infringements and the issuing of criminal decrees. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 91, para. 3 The staff of the Executive Agency with control functions shall be specifically empowered to request information from third parties present in carrying out the checks. During the discussion on the topic the opinion of the Bulgarian Libertarian Society Foundation was presented by Mr. Dimitar Karagev. It expresses concern about the texts of the Bill which empower staff of the Executive Agency to collect data from third parties. The importers replied that this power was necessary to establish the type of carriages, whether for payment or not, which, in turn, is of great importance when establishing the infringements carried out by persons carrying passengers at the price of the ticket, and claimed that they did not receive a price for carrying out the transport. The collection of information by the persons carried is a means of collecting evidence in administrative criminal proceedings, as at present is not applicable due to the lack of that authority of the control authorities. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 8 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The second draft Law No 654-01-112, with importers Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 654-01-112, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 7 October 2016. During a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 26 October 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act was discussed, No 654-01-112, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 7 October 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, as well as representatives of the branch organizations. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivan Valkov. He stressed that the main objective of the Bill is to reduce the cases of unauthorised activity of drivers of motor vehicles who carry out public transport or transport on their own account of passengers and goods without a regular license, authorisation, registration document or other documents required by a regulation of the European institutions, by law and by regulations. According to importers, this type of activity reveals a significantly higher degree of public danger, given the responsibility of drivers, both for their personal safety and for the lives, health and property of citizens. The importers claimed that an unlimited increase in the supply of this type of unregulated service could lead to an artificially created market crisis. Another amendment provided for by the Bill is the granting of powers to the relevant municipal councils to determine the amount of fines for the carriage of passengers travelling without a ticket or other transport document in the settlements. In the course of the debates on the Bill, opinions were expressed on improving certain texts from it. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u9	A report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is available only under the Law with an importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 602-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 602-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The proposed changes are in several main directions. Measures are provided for to implement Regulation (EU) No 165/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on tachographs in road transport. Another group of amendments and additions provided for in the Draft Law are related to the conditions for licensing and for carrying out the activity of passenger or freight transport by road carriers, the grounds for refusal of authorisation and for termination of licensing, as well as the conditions for registration for the taxi transport of passengers and refusal of registration. The third group of amendments provided for by the Bill is related to the award of transports by established route schedules on bus lines. The proposed changes create an obligation for the mayors of municipalities before the initiation of a procedure for the award of services on established route schedules by bus and coach transport schemes from the district and Republican transport schemes to notify in writing the authority which has established the relevant timetable and the award procedure can only be initiated for verified and agreed by the established authority route schedules. The mayors of the municipalities of contracting entities undertake to provide information on the award of services by route of bus and coach schedules by the regional and Republican transport scheme to the authority which has established the relevant schedules and to inform it in case of changes in the circumstances of the award. These references are necessary in order to obtain up-to-date information on the award of transports and the time limits of contracts concluded with carriers in order to carry out a verification of actions to optimise the Republican transport scheme. The information received from the reports will provide an opportunity to carry out controls on how to award, with a view to allocating to municipalities the funds provided for in the State budget to compensate for the reduced revenue from the application of prices for public passenger transport on road transport provided for in the regulations for certain categories of passengers, for subsidising public passenger transport on non-costable bus lines in intra-urban transport and transport in mountain and other areas and for issuing transport documents for carrying out the transport. The municipal council of the municipality concerned, on whose territory there is a stop along the bus route, will determine the relevant bus station and bus station. The Commission presented an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principled support of the Bill. At the same time, the opinion disagrees with the high amount of sanctions provided for the mayors of municipalities. During the discussion the MPs who spoke supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 7 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Before giving the floor for an opinion of an importer, honourable Members, a group of Silistra District is to visit the National Assembly. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] For an importer's opinion please, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the main objective of the bill, which we present to you with colleague Ivanov, is to reduce the grey sector in the field of road transport. The essence of the bill is in two main directions. The first is to increase the fines for unregulated shipments of goods and goods, when there are no licenses and when the necessary transport documents are not available. The second group of changes are in the direction of enabling municipal councils to determine the amount of fines for passengers without tickets or without such transport documents. The bill was approved by the Committee on Transport by all MPs unanimously, for which I thank them. Proposals were made by MPs Mihov and Svilenski, which we will take into account if voted at first reading and we will correct the texts, we will make them better. This is short on the proposed bill, which was approved by the automotive industry at the meeting, which was held with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Opinion on the draft by the Council of Ministers........................................................................................... Debate regime, fellow Members. You have the floor to speak on both bills. Here you are, Mr. Gorov of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I say a few words on both of these bills, I will say that we will support both of these bills at first reading, as we did in the Commission, so we will also vote in this House. We will support the bills, given that these are steps in the right direction. On the other hand, however, I will not comment in any way on the issues concerning European directives which we are in fact transposing now into our legislation. There are requirements for both tachographs and licences, so from this point of view I will not comment in this direction. The philosophy of the Law, which is the Council of Ministers, generally speaks of fighting, or an attempt to deal with a part of the gray sector throughout the sector, I am talking about passenger transport. What's this about? We're all clear and we've seen cars or little vans leaving before the buses, pretending to travel in the same direction. In fact, they drive at the price of the ticket, and no documents are issued, which, of course, also damages the State in terms of taxes, and the carriers who carry out these transport services have won competitions, have guaranteed any minimum conditions and requirements that have placed the State or the municipality on the lines they serve. So far, so good. I fully agree that such action should be taken and should be even more active. But there's one thing we can't miss, I can't help but say it. Here we defend the interests of the big, the big, the big company, the owner. Maybe we should think about it, it's a longer process, in terms of the little one who's traveling. Because people who are looking for options to cut costs are also an important part of society. They otherwise pay their tickets and look for an option to cut their costs. Perhaps additional opportunities for municipalities should be sought for more lines, or an option to reduce prices as much as possible, of course, within the reasonable framework. Again, it is good to protect the interests of carriers, it is good to protect the state's interest in tax collection, but we must not forget that there is another country in this whole process. This is the passenger who, under certain circumstances, will hardly risk, since we all know that when it comes to such a journey, there is neither insurance at the place where the person is sitting, at all a number of others. Let's not get into the details of these problems. I don't think people would risk their lives in this situation. This does not concern specific texts, so I say: we will support them. With regard to fines, it is good to set such fines. However, the colleague Svilenski proposed that an upper limit be set to the Commission. Let the municipalities have the right to determine for themselves what the size of the fines of the people who ride without tickets in transport or those who break the rules, but let us set an upper limit. It is not that we do not believe in the assessment of the Bulgarian municipalities, but we know that they are pressured to a large extent financially, and not to get to very unpleasant situations in small municipalities high fines that are impossible for the people who are offenders. Although the very fact that they are offenders is already extremely revealing. And something we'll offer, besides that, of course. I have heard that my fellow importers also have the attitude to mark our proposals that we have made in the Commission. We will propose that the requirements which are in relation to the managers of the companies carrying out these activities be the same for the owners of the companies. There are often situations where people who do not meet the requirements of managers make companies find themselves a proper manager who actually conditionally meets those requirements. Thus, people who do not meet certain requirements are allowed to carry out this type of activity as owners. This between first and second reading will be a proposal. And I will say again in conclusion: we will support the Bill at first reading with these arrangements, which will eventually be reflected between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Gorov. A line of speech? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gorov, I'm going to replicate you in the part where you said that it's a little surprising to me that the owner has to meet the same criteria as the manager. Given that we are trying to stimulate small and medium-sized business investors and so on, there is no way to oblige an investor because the owner is an investor, he has decided to make a company, he has invested funds, decided to make a business model. That doesn't mean he has to meet those requirements. They can be demanded by the manager, since he runs the business, he's a manager. He must have the knowledge he needs all over the world. If we set the same requirements for owners, we will limit the right to do business. The owner can be a serial investor a person who has only invested part. There could be more than one owner. If we have ten owners, if we have AD, does that mean that all five hundred owners will have to meet this requirement because they own their shares?! That doesn't seem reasonable to me as a suggestion, and in that regard it was my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gorov, I think we need to distinguish things a little bit. When we talk about illegal business, it's an illegal business that has nothing to do with who's gonna be the manager, who won't be the manager. These companies don't have a license to drive. That's the main thing about the change we make. If they don't have a license, they get hit by the law. Everything else is about what is the manager, what is the driver, are things that are considered by another matter of the relevant law, on the one hand. On the second hand, for the fines. I agree that there should be a ceiling, but we have to keep something else in mind. We should not fall into populism and for example this ceiling is too low, which you may suggest. The problem is in Sofia and in the major cities of Varna, Burgas, Ruse, Pleven and so on. These are cities where there are no employees of the relevant companies who collect the ticket from the passenger, and the passengers themselves need to pierce their ticket, so to speak, or check-in card. That's why I'm asking you to separate these things. Otherwise, I kind of agree with your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Gorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u20	The good atmosphere created in our Commission, I think it is a good basis to come to a common decision on what the ceiling of the fine should be. I'm not saying to be very small or very big. We'll figure it out together. There will be various proposals, I suppose, and from this point of view we will come at some point to the final decision. I think the excessive increase, the high threshold of the fine, on the one hand, will reach the option of inability to pay, which will in fact make such a fine meaningless. On the other hand, the too low fine will lead to a situation where everyone will not pay their tickets, with the secret understanding that once they get caught, it will not be a problem to pay their ticket. From this point of view, I think that, in any case, we will have the opportunity to debate and we will come to some common solution on the subject. As for the requirements of the owners. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I have not said all the requirements that are in question for the governors to be required for the owners as well. But tell me you! You set an example for AD. You tell me: if an owner owes the state 5 million VAT, is that not a good reason why this person has no right and has no opportunity to do another firm with which to continue its activities in this direction.. to accumulate obligations to the state and so on? If a person is convicted of crimes that concern transport events and so on, should he have this opportunity, appointing a manager who has not committed such violations? So from this point of view, I am absolutely convinced that such requirements must also be available to owners and they must be high enough. It is true that the managers are the people who practically carry out the management of the company, but let us not bend our souls. They will do what the owners tell them in 99.9% of the cases of management in any company. So in this situation, I think it is not illogical to have such requirements with regard to owners as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will personally support both bills as they are in the right direction. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the good intentions of our colleague Valkov's Bill should be backed up with a very serious work between first and second readings. In other words, it is a good idea that those who carry out illegal shipments without having a licence be so awarded with serious fines. However, there is a serious problem here - how and how will it be proved that these persons carry out such unregulated transports? The practice, as we spoke earlier with colleague Valkov, shows that normally the persons who are being transported, when carrying out an inspection, turns out to be friends, with a distant relation and so on. In other words, this good intention may at some point prove not working. I therefore note that between first and second reading these things must be cleared and foreseen. Moreover, since carriage without a licence at the same time constitutes a gross violation of the operation of undeclared activities. It's clear that when you transport without a license, you don't declare this activity. Revenues realised and realised by this activity shall not be reported anywhere. In other words, there must also be a mandatory reference to the Tax Procedure Code (DPC), because we know that when a trader is found to have revenue from an unregulated activity, there are good texts in the DPC that make the fine and the benefit of the state even better. In other words, there should be a mandatory reference and consider how to make it. In my opinion, between first and second readings, in order for these texts to become really effective and working, there must also be a reference to the Penal Code. Why the Penal Code, colleagues? Because, as you know, we've already assumed here that not being insured is a criminal act. When you're hiding, you're doing illegal activity, you're practically hiding and failing insurance. In other words, there must also be a reference to the Penal Code and it must be considered very seriously between first and second readings. On the subject of both licenses, I think things are clear there. I think they're in the right direction, and that's why they deserve support. Once again, personally, I suppose that my colleagues in the Patriot Front Group will support these two bills with the condition that between first and second reading a lot of effort must be made. Finally, in order not to take up too much time, I do not know if it is not good, as the municipal councils are given the opportunity to determine what the fines are, but when we impose a maximum threshold, this means that we will give the municipal councils the opportunity to reduce this fine, and we are talking about a serious act. A serious act which is contrary to competition, contrary to our intentions to brighten the Bulgarian business. In other words, it is probably better to talk about a minimum threshold for imposing a fine laid down in the law, and the municipal councils, as they will be much better acquainted on the ground and informed, to impose a higher fine than this minimum laid down in the law. It is also good to think in this direction, as I am currently not sure which would be better, however, to think, to comment. There is nothing wrong with hearing the opinion of the Association of Municipalities in this direction, if there is or is not. So it's good to think about it this way. That's what I mean. We'll support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm not going to give you an exact line, but I'd like to elaborate your idea. Not only do we have the idea to make changes to the Criminal Code (CC), but since the order to change to the NK is normal to do so through a separate Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement (CID), there was no need for this GID to bring change to the NK, it would not be collegiate and fair to the colleagues of the Legal Commission, who could also wish to make changes on the one hand. On the other hand, we have an idea, Mr. Bayraktarov, perhaps in some way to bind the third act, for example, to the withdrawal of the license. Because when the license is taken away, it takes away the ability of this driver to carry out more activity for a certain period. The motor vehicle may also be taken away. But these things follow. The first thing we do is change in road transport and then the corresponding changes to the other laws that we can make together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I am taking advantage of my right to a line, not because I disagree with what you said. On the contrary, I support you in all the reasoning you have made from this tribune, only one correction, if I can make about the fines and the amount set by the municipal councils. This is not about these parking tickets when you do not have a license, but about the parking tickets for an irregular passenger in public transport. Colleagues have suggested that this thing be determined by the municipal council without having an upper limit. What is our idea to do is for the National Assembly to determine some range of this fine and not for municipal councils to do it as they see fit. I will tell you why.. because at the moment the fine for irregular passenger is 10 BGN and in Sofia Municipality the fine is 40 BGN. The biggest intruder under the Road Transport Act, unfortunately, is the capital of Bulgaria. The capital of Bulgaria shows that it does not matter that there is a law in which it is said that the fine should be 10 BGN, it does not matter that the Bulgarian Parliament has accepted that there should be a minimum tariff of taxi services.. For two years Sofia Municipality has not introduced such a minimum tariff. The example that municipalities have to give is not only to make infrastructure improvements for their residents and citizens, but also to comply with legislation. I hope that when we set these boundaries such as to satisfy the interests of both Sofia Municipality and the carriers, they will start to implement the Law, because at the moment the fine by law is BGN 10 and the fine imposed by the controllers in the Centre for Urban Mobility is BGN 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Third line? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Ivanov, we are of the same opinion. I said, for a reason, that a reference should be made to the Penal Code, because I share this view that it should not, through Transitional and Final Provisions, change either the Criminal Code or the Criminal Code, because the matter is extremely specific, it is very thin, I would say, and that is why it is best for the Committee on Legal Affairs to deal with these issues. However, if we do not refer to the Committee on Legal Affairs, there will be only one intention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u29	We're gonna make a separate PID.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u30	When I say a reference, I say there should be a synchronized action between the two committees, otherwise our opinion is the same on this issue. I'm glad my colleague Svilensky supports what I said, but I repeat... You have actually repeated what I said: if we impose a maximum threshold of 10 BGN, that is exactly what I meant, this means, colleague Svilenski, I hope you understand it already that the municipality will not impose a fine more than 10 BGN and in each municipality it has strictly specific features of its own. For example, in Sofia Municipality there are some peculiarities, but for example in the municipality of Nova Zagora there are quite different conditions. There the fines and in terms of the status of the population living there, the income that this population receives will also be different. It is not a question of imposing fines and then not being able to collect these fines. The issue is to impose fines and be able to collect them. I'm gonna say it again to make it clear to you. If we impose in the Law a maximum threshold for irregular passenger from 10 BGN, this means that Sofia Municipality can impose a fine from 1 to 10 BGN, which is not serious, I suppose you will agree. Therefore, I say that we must impose a minimum threshold in order for the respective municipality... and for example, if we say that the minimum threshold is 10 BGN, that is, which is acceptable to all, in my opinion, municipalities that carry out this kind of activity, to start the fine of 10 BGN. Up. Thank you. I hope you understand and agree with me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u31	Thank you for your lecture, Mr. Bayraktarov. I think everyone understands you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u32	And thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's free.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to the discussed drafts by colleague Valkov and Ivanov, yes, I agree that there should be a ceiling of the fines, as there is no way to let the municipalities decide that and to prove that in some small municipality the fine is 100 BGN and in another larger one is 20 and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u35	It can always be that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u36	For me, a decent fine, for example, for Sofia, would be 30 BGN, because so far it has been about this way we had 1 BGN. ticket 20-time fine, which was BGN 20. Now the ticket is BGN 1.60. A 20-time fine is BGN 30. Also, given the proposals for fines of long-distance transport and international transport, there are respectively 30 BGN. for distance and 300 leva. for international transport when traveling without a ticket. There's got to be some dimension after all. You can't have an extra mileage fine of 30 BGN, where one ticket, maybe 10 BGN 15, actually becomes two times the amount of the fine, and in Sofia is more than... I mean 25 times. We will also give the Commission the opportunity to discuss between readings what is the appropriate fine and already the municipal councils themselves to judge. He needs other editorials. They were mentioned to the Commission in the text of Mr. Valkov and Ivanov, where there is talk of motor transport I would like to pay a little more attention to the fine for carriers or those who are pretending to be such and who have not been licensed. That's where we raise the fine. It is proposed to lift the fine, I support such lifting, because it is a sign to the industry itself and to the community itself. This means that whoever follows the rules for doing business can enter and compete against normal conditions in doing business, but who has decided in some way to compete unfairly because, if you do not take a license and engage in illegal business, you are actually an unfair competition of the carriers themselves, who have fulfilled a number of requirements that the Law imposes on them and others have not fulfilled that requirement. They try, first, to undercut prices and second, to make more profit. A few months ago, in connection with this proposal of the Council of Ministers, there was a rather large controversy, for me it was speculative that these fines were actually aimed at the shared journey. It must be very clear that they are not aimed at shared travel, but at illegal commercial activity. Any one of us, maybe now, maybe when he was younger, when he traveled to the sea with a friend or acquaintance and split the gas. It's a shared journey. I give an example of the fact that I recently entered a platform for shared travel and there was an advertisement for a 57-seat bus, which was advertised as a shared trip. You will agree with me that this is an obvious form of illegal commercial activity which must be very seriously punishable. The community itself must have self-regulation from within. If you have a website for this thing, there should be self-regulation. There can't be a shared trip with a 57-seat bus. The measures are not aimed at this direction. They are targeting illegal commercial activity, against the wiles who are trying to make money on the back of developed lines, on developed routes, to leave shortly before the designated carriers, so that they can take part of their business. The measures are aimed at this. Against this, we are giving more opportunities to the Auto Administration Mr. Kalajdzhiev in the Commission said that yes, there are a lot of sanctioned people under this article. Let us give to the industry that we support people who want to do legal business, who do not want to hide in the grey economy, who want to pay taxes and insurance, but also put very clearly the sign that it is not aimed at shared travel, but at illegal commercial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Is there a line to Mr. Ananiev's statement? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. There are 71 people in the hall right now. I took the liberty of counting. We don't have a quorum, so I'm going to ask you to invite the MPs. I'll wait a minute before we proceed to the vote. Honourable Members, first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 602-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 June 2016. Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 92 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. We are voting for the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act, No 654-01-112, submitted by the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 7 October 2016. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The bill has been passed. Thus, both bills were adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGED AGREEMENT TO ESTABLISH THE MEDITERARY SEA GENERAL COMMISSION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, President of the Commission, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law on the ratification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, No 602-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 19 October 2016, discussing a Draft Law on the ratification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, No 602-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016. The General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean is a regional fisheries management organisation of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation established under the Agreement of 24 September 1949. It entered into force in February 1952, has undergone several amendments and the Republic of Bulgaria ratified it by law in 2006. The European Community joined the Agreement in 1998 and the Member States of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea region also became parties to it. By Council Decision of 20 April 2015, the European Union also adopted the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, which should also be ratified in the respective national order. The aim of the amendments is to update and strengthen the role of the Commission in the conservation of fishery resources and, in this regard, revise the structure and content of the current Agreement. With the ratification of the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria will be able to participate in scientific, technical and methodological projects, forums and seminars funded by the Commission, in the exchange of specialised information and will be able to exercise its right to vote within the competence established by the European Union when deciding on the sessions of the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean. After the vote, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for the ratification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, No 602-02-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Christov. There are no reports from the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy for the short-term protocol. An importer's opinion? I can't see. Debate regime. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. We are voting for a bill ratifying the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, No 602-02-35, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2016. Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously with 73 votes. Procedure please, Mr. Hristov, for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedural proposal that the bill be proposed at a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u41	A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, Mr. Hristov's proposal for a second vote on the Law on ratification. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, 73 votes for. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean A single member. It ratifies the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Draft Law on the ratification of the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, a second vote, if you please, honourable Members. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. Thank you, fellow Members, for participating in today's plenary day for the legislative day. Thirty-minute break. 11:00 P.M. parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u44	We continue, honourable Members, with: PARLIAMENT CONTROLS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 91 TO 103 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. New requests for the period from 21 October 2016 to 27 October 2016 A question was received from the MP Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Claudia Grigorova-Gancheva, Evgeni Stoev, Milen Mihov to Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, concerning the status of the third-class road network in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 4 November 2016. Written answers: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to three questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ruchen Riza. On behalf of Svetoslav Belemezov Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian and international media published information on public statements by the President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Erdogan, in which there are badly disguised claims of Turkey to have spheres of influence outside its present borders, representing millions of citizens of foreign countries, including Bulgaria, and taking care of the preservation of cultural and historical heritage in the former Ottoman Empire. These are very dangerous claims that can only be defined as an attempt to promote Islamist ideology and neo-Osmanist politics that have no place in modern international relations. These statements have caused reasonable tension and discontent among the Bulgarian society, given the delicate international situation at the moment and the vague political processes in our neighbour. Such provocative statements and biased references to historical events are not a sign of state responsibility and can be interpreted as challenging the agreements establishing the borders between the countries in the region. This does not help good neighbourly relations and regional stability, as well as Turkey's European aspirations. Against this background, the silence of the Bulgarian official authorities in the face mainly of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the lack of action that would help to lighten the case, reduce public tension and protect the national interest and national dignity. Instead, Minister Daniel Mitov gently ignores the problem with the ridiculous explanation that he cannot comment on the boundaries of Erdogan's heart width. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, once again with actions or omissions, rightly provokes the question whether he understands what the national interest really is, does he have the capacity to stand up for this interest and whose interests he actually serves? In relation to the above parliamentary group of ABB insists: First, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria to request clarification from the Turkish country and to react sharply to any attempts for territorial claims in relation to Bulgaria. Secondly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs should report to Parliament's Foreign Policy Committee on the measures he has taken at present. Thirdly, if necessary, the issue should be discussed with all its seriousness by the Government and the National Assembly, which will take a firm position and take appropriate measures to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and dignity of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this context, the parliamentary group of ABB expresses its full support for the position announced by the Central leadership of the Union of Thracian companies in Bulgaria.............................. the most important organization of the Thracian Bulgarians, which has for years argued and strongly raised the Thracian issue to the Bulgarian and international institutions and the need to place it as a major in bilateral relations with the Republic of Turkey without politics, partisanism and creating tensions between the two countries. We call on all parliamentary parties and coalitions, as well as the National Assembly as a whole, to support this position without reservation and to require the executive authority and, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to take the measures they expect to protect the national interest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Are there any other declarations? I can't see. We are moving on to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. The first question is from the MP Dimitar Shishkov about the large number of traffic accidents with tragic end in the city of Plovdiv and the district. Here you are, Mr. Shishkov, for the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! From the last report of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv, where we were together, it was evident that Plovdiv and the district were first in traffic accidents ending with a tragic end. This data is also confirmed by national televisions, as well as by European statistics, as well as by our websites and in general by our Bulgarian statistics. In Plovdiv you cannot see, unfortunately, any patrolman throughout the day, and I assure you that this is indeed the case, which allows unregulated competitions even on the city's central boulevards. There is not a day when there is no serious traffic accident in Plovdiv. In fact, there has never been such a serious traffic situation in Plovdiv before. In the last year, most deaths have been reported in road accidents. I do not see any prevention and punishment, which leads me to ask these questions to you, namely, what measures does the Ministry take to resolve this serious problem? Is it true that the State of the Ministry of Interior in Plovdiv District Directorate is incomplete and what is the reason for this? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u49	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I also share your concern about the traffic situation in Plovdiv. From the very beginning of my term, I have placed as a priority of the Plovdiv Directorate to work in this direction to both Mr. Uzunov, who is no longer the Director and Mr. Rassolkov. We need to bear in mind that it is a region where there is an extremely complicated traffic situation, the busiest highway, an international road, a very busy second-class road along the destination Plovdiv. One clarification that the indicator by which statistics are reported is the number of crashes per 1000 motor vehicles. Plovdiv is here in the beginning, but not in the first place. However, according to the number of traffic accidents and victims, statistics show an alarming situation. In the nine months of 2016, i.e. from the time we were in this report together, there was a reduction in road accidents and victims in the territory of Plovdiv. The most important is that of those who died less than or 18% less than the same period. There is also a significant increase in the control activities carried out by road control authorities, with the detected violations being twice as high as 2015. I think this is one of the keys to solving the problems in Plovdiv. Taking into account the importance of road control by my order of July 2016, the circle of officials with the authority to issue tickets and acts establishing administrative infringements under the Road Traffic Act and the Insurance Code has been extended. After the training and exams held at the Regional Directorate Plovdiv, the number of these employees has been increased to 124 for different positions by the units of the Territorial Police. Apart from that, the management of the Regional Directorate of Plovdiv has created an effective order to check the unmanaged criminal decrees of the citizens. In principle, they are given to persons only at their personal appearance in the building of the sector "Travel Police" by police officers at the residence addresses. At the moment, the employees have access to the database in which verification can be carried out in each structural directorate. In this way, any person visiting the relevant division, regardless of the occasion, can also be checked for the existence of non-managed penal decrees, a good practice that we intend to apply in other places. During the day only the forces of existing structural units are maintained 25-30 auto patrols. Separately, mixed teams are formed with the participation of the Regional Gendarmerian Department of Plovdiv, Territorial Police, Criminal Police and others, according to the need for public order and security for the specific area and locality. Since the beginning of the year, there has been no registered traffic accident, which is reported to be due to an illegal competition on the streets of Plovdiv and the area of something you mention, refers to a period shortly before that. To date, 45 specialized police operations have been carried out, 819 persons have been checked for established violations of the Road Traffic Act and 84 acts have been drawn up to establish an administrative infringement. 134 tickets were imposed with a ticket. In addition, 96 persons are subject to alert protocols. Regarding the directorate's personnel security, I would like to inform you that it has a shortage of 10.7%. In particular, in the framework of Road Control, there are 15. The cadre provision depends on the budget and opportunities of the Academy to train the winners of the competition. We're working actively in this direction as well. Here I can say that a lot of efforts have been made by the municipality in Plovdiv, especially replaced are the traffic lights at 45 intersections, the organization of movement on the main boulevards is changed, about 50 km of bikes are built. I say this because our view of solving the problems of road accidents is linked to the understanding that all institutions concerned with both the environment and the behavior of drivers, and not just the control, should be involved in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Shishkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u51	Thank you very much for the comprehensive answer. I see you've committed yourself to this problem. After all, as a member of Plovdiv, I feel kind about the city and what happened. It is nice for me that Plovdiv has become a very nice city and is becoming a better city. It is nice of me that there are bikes that are the best in Bulgaria. But it's disgusting to me when he saw that all the bikes in town stopped cars and passed a police car that didn't fine them. In fact, I know that the report you have been given is pure statistics. I know that if we get in a car with you now and go to Plovdiv, we won't see a patrol car. This is the problem, unfortunately, and I am asking you to help as many as I can and as MPs, really pay attention to your subordinate services in Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. You will not take advantage of the right of the duplicate, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister. Second question from the MP Petar Kadiev about a fair determination of the wage in the state administration. Here you are, dear Mr. Kadyev, for the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! After meeting with voters in Smolyan, disturbing information reached me about unfairly determining the salaries of civil servants. According to the State Administration Staff Regulations, when establishing the individual basic monthly salaries of employees entering the administration for the first time, the relevant level and grade of Annex No 1 of the same regulation and the professional experience gained shall be taken into account. By 2012, when the regulation entered into force, the minimum wage in our country was 290 BGN and now it is 420 BGN. Salaries in RZI Smolyan have not been changed for 8 years due to the limited budget resources for salary expenditure. For years, a trend has been established at the latest for employees to take higher salaries due to the increased minimum wage for the country. In practice, due to the current regulatory and sub-normative acts, long-standing employees receive significantly lower remuneration than newcomers. The State Administration Staff Staff Regulations allow for an increase in wages on the basis of the performance assessment. Such an increase, here I open a clamp. However, in the presence of the necessary financial resource, is carried out for all employees in the administrative structure as the basis on which it is defined is the employee's basic monthly salary. At present, the existing broad ranges of minimum and maximum salary for a given level, the employee with a lower salary, in practice, cannot reach the level of the higher one, as the basis for an increase is always different. My question to you is: what measures will you take to restore the balance and to unify the rules for determining the salaries of civil servants so as to eradicate the unfair and discriminatory determination of the wage existing at present in the public administration?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u55	Dear Mr. Kadiev, this issue is a little on the verge of my powers and of the Ministry of Finance, but in order to be able to answer you, and not to return the question, I have done the necessary consultations because the Administrative Reform Council, which I manage, has advisory functions, that is to say, positions are being discussed, but the decisions themselves are being offered by the portfolio ministries. I believe that your finding of unfairly determining the salaries of longtime employees and new employees you are putting is a very high level of injustice. The levelling of the minimum size of a significant number of levels from the so-called wage matrix, Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Regulation on the salaries of the public administration staff, a table of minimum and maximum amounts, led to a violation of the principle of taking account of the level of employment and of professional experience on the basis of which the level of wages is determined. Therefore, proposals for updating the wage matrix will be considered within the Human Resources Development Working Group of the Administrative Reform Council to reflect changes in the amount of minimum wage. We mean, of course, that increasing the minimum wage rates in some levels will inevitably affect staff costs in administrative structures. The problem posed with the existence of wage differences between administrations with similar positions is related to financial resources available to administrations and can only find a solution under a budgetary procedure and the improved budgetaryly planned provision of administrative structures. The policy of payment through the prism of programme budgeting suggests that the Ministry of Finance should be successfully justified on how the increase in salaries in the respective administration will contribute to the achievement of its objectives, i.e. every administration must follow this procedure. As regards the differences between the payment levels of the minor authorising officers with a budget cannot be drawn up and regulated a general rule leading to a uniformity in this respect, since the secondary officers to the different ministries as a type of structure, number, content of functions are of different authorities and are different, and this comparison cannot be made. As regards your question about the commitment of wage increases to the size of the basic monthly salaries, I can say that, due to the existence of arguments for injustice in wage increases rules, as a percentage of the basic salary within the Human Resources Development Working Party of the Council for Administrative Reform, the Council of Ministers' Administration will propose introducing a new approach to be reflected by amending the Staff Regulations in the State Administration. It will be suggested that wage increases be made with certain amounts that are uniform to the annual estimate received and have no bearing on the basic salary amount. If the proposal is approved by the working group, it will be proposed in inter-agency coordination for its adoption by the Council of Ministers, whose competence is to amend the wage regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the answer pleases me what you have done, because in the end we are going in one direction to remove this injustice. It will be a little more tangible only six months when the minimum wage becomes 460 BGN, and I will ask you when you make these estimates to be already based on 460 BGN, because it fucks the moment when it happens. Thank you, I think we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. The next question is from the National Representative Yavor Haytov on road accidents on E79, in Botevgrad division Mezdra. Here you are, dear Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, in today's parliamentary control you have six questions and three of them are related to the road traffic problems posed by three MPs from three parliamentary groups. This makes me think that really there are problems in this sector and it is necessary to resolve them sooner. My question is this. It is entered, by the way, on 18 October and honor makes you that only ten days after it is entered you find time to answer it. In other words, it is really relevant within the meaning of our Rules of Procedure. On 18 October there is information on all means of mass information that on the road E79 in the section between Botevgrad and Mezdra, next to the village of Riberkovo, Mezdra Municipality, Vratsa District, there has been a road accident, where there have been deaths and injuries, unfortunately little children of age. There is also significant material damage reported I would not have formulated my question in this way if it were a one-time accident and a fruit of human error or negligence. But such information is available weekly in this section of the international road E79 between Botevgrad and Mezdra, and especially in the district around the village of Riberkovo there are traffic accidents with significant material damage and human casualties, as well as many injured Bulgarian citizens. My specific question is: please answer, in this part of the international road E79, in the section between the villages Novacene, Botevgrad Municipality and Mezdra, in the section around the villages Lyutidol and Riberkovo since the beginning of this calendar year 2016: how many road accidents have occurred? How many times has the road been closed because of these, and what side roads are sought? What does the Ministry of Interior do to ease traffic and prevent further traffic accidents? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is part of the international road E79 and there is a huge load of trucks that travel both to Danube Bridge 2 between Vidin and Calafat and the ferry Oryahovo
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer. Of the three questions, two are for E 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u61	Dear Mr. Haytov, really the topic is extremely worrying, the sensitivity is very great on this topic. Yesterday, we had a meeting of the interdepartmental committee. We discussed the situation and the follow-up measures. The conclusions we made are in different directions, and I think they give us a direction to our common policy. On the particular case you are asking about from the beginning of 2016 to 20 October 2016 on the international road E79 in Botevgrad section Mezdra are reported 56 road accidents, 14 of which are serious, with five dead and 14 injured. In the district around Riberkovo and the village of Lyutidol, there were a total of 17 heavy ones, of which four died and five injured. During that period, the road was closed for traffic only five times due to road-related accidents with victims and deaths and twice due to light road accidents with heavy goods vehicles, the road flow being redirected along a bypass route. The main causes of accidents in the area around the villages of Lyutidol and Riberkovo are related to non-compliance with the advantage of the road signs-regulated intersection, inadequate speed and non-retardance of distance from the drivers. The station has been alerted you must have had the opportunity to see, probably travel there often, with the necessary road signs and additional signs with inscriptions in Bulgarian and English: The traffic situation shall be monitored continuously by drawing up analyses of the road and transport emergency on a monthly basis. On the basis of analyses, the road traffic control locations from the events where speed control is also carried out with a mobile video control system shall also be defined. The places are at a branch for the village of Riberkovo, in the village of Lyutidol and at a road establishment at the end of the village of Lyutidol. The villages are included in the planned operations for enhanced police presence in this territory. Specialized police operations are also planned in the area of the village of Lyutidol. As far as the district of Novacene village is concerned, it is served by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Sofia and for the period from January 2016 to 20 October 2016 there have been five serious traffic accidents in which one person died and four people were injured. In two cases, in relation to heavy road accidents, traffic has been redirected by route and, in other cases, traffic has been redirected again when it was impossible to pass. Part of the measures implemented by the police officers of the Botevgrad District Department in order to prevent traffic accidents is increased control activity. For the first ten months of this year are drawn up 1091 acts establishing administrative violations 1631 fines on a ticket for violations of the Road Traffic Act, which, if you follow the previous question, is much more than in Plovdiv. For comparison in the same period in 2015, two times less, about 600 acts and so many tickets were drawn up. In 2016, 23 specialized police operations were carried out under the broad-range control method, in 2015, 19 were carried out and 23 were so far. 17 are the preventive events related to traffic safety carried out on the territory of Botevgrad municipality, including talks with adolescents, as well as with their parents. In 2015, these events were also almost half less. Signals to road owners in connection with improvement of road infrastructure or the removal of existing or sudden faults on the canvas shall be drawn up in due time when necessary. This year's letters are 11. I am aware that these are administrative measures related to the powers of the DMV. Based on the analysis that we did yesterday, there will be a lot of work towards informing drivers, controlling them, changing their behaviour, including conducting wider media campaigns, so that each one of them can comply with their behaviour according to the dangers that exist. We are also working in this direction at the moment looking for partnerships, mainly media, to start a change in consciousness, naturally, and in the behavior of drivers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You're two minutes behind schedule, and I hope that's on your back. Here's a line for you, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for giving an opportunity for a comprehensive answer, because this question is important for the entire Northwestern. I am actually using the parliamentary tribune to say one "Thank you!" to the employees of both the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Vratsa and the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Sofia District, because if it were not for them and did not do their hard and quality work, the victims of which you spoke and the material states would be many more. To solve this acute problem on this international road there is only one solution, and it is very simple. It is contained in the government management programme for the period 2014 - 2018. This can be done by fulfilling the part in it where it talks about targeted infrastructure financing in Northwestern Bulgaria. Because whatever the employees of the Ministry of Interior are doing 24/7, and they are there, I know this because I know not a small part of them, really only the government can solve the issue by fulfilling its promise of making a two-way in the Botevgrad section of Mezdra as part of the international road E-79, which is extremely busy. On it, as I said, a number of squads pass, and very often columns are formed, moving both towards the ferry Oryahovo "Beckett," as well as to Danube Bridge "2." By implementing the program, we can save ourselves both human sacrifice and material damage. Since we are in preparation for the 2017 budget, Madam Minister, as an authoritative member of the Bulgarian government, I ask you to pay attention to the implementation of the government programme, to set aside these funds in order to finally make this section truly European! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. We move on to two questions with a common answer asked by the MPs Radan Kanev and Atanas Atanasov. The first is about the surrender by the Ministry of Interior to Turkish citizens of the Republic of Turkey. The second is about a request for political asylum from foreign citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Atanasov, you have double time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! In a significant part of the Bulgarian society there is a strong sensitivity to the violation of basic human rights of people who are fleeing the political regime in neighbouring Turkey at the moment. In this regard are our two questions. The actual situation is as follows. In the public domain there was information that the Bulgarian state had transmitted to the Republic of Turkey seven of its citizens who had left their country due to political persecution. Information was also distributed about this event in the Republic of Turkey itself, detailing the names of these persons. Three of them are former police commissioners, one is an associate professor at the University of Malatiya, the next is a journalist, the other is a high school teacher in physics and mathematics and one is a trader. In this regard, our two questions are the following. First of all, on what legal basis did the Ministry of Interior pass these persons on to the Republic of Turkey? Secondly, in the investigation conducted by the Ministry of Interior against the designated persons for a crime under art. 279 of the Penal Code did they request political asylum from the Bulgarian state? In this regard, I must give you some important texts. First of all, from the Constitution. Article 27, para. 1 of the Constitution says that: "Foreigners can't be evicted, see the term used by the constitutional legislature, or transferred to a foreign state against their will. Article 2 (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 27 states: "Bulgaria gives asylum to foreigners persecuted for their beliefs or activities in defence of internationally recognised rights and freedoms. " Apart from this, since I do not know what the legal basis for handing over these persons is, I would like to tell you in advance that the concluded agreement between the European Union and Turkey since 2014, because there has been evidence that the Ministry of Interior is based on this readmission agreement, applies to third-country nationals. Apart from that, Turkey and I have a visa-free regime and this is extremely important for the particular case. I very much ask you to answer us specifically because in every case of crossing the Bulgarian border not through the places designated for this, without the relevant documents, pre-trial proceedings must be initiated for a crime under art. 279 of the Penal Code is a crime, and the exemption from criminal liability under para. 5 of art. 279 can only happen when it is clear what are the motives and reasons for these individuals to enter the country illegally. If it is found that they have entered for reasons of being persecuted, other procedures in the Bulgarian legislation should be followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u67	Thank you. Dear Mr. Atanasov, thank you for the legal references. It will serve me well to justify my response. There is an essential inaccuracies in what you have quoted. The 2014 Agreement concerns citizens of neighbouring countries, not third-country nationals. We are trying to sign and implement the agreement for third-country nationals, but we have not been able to do so in recent months. This is only about citizens of the respective border countries. I can give you the following reference. On October 14th of this year, on the route exit trucks at the Ruse border crossing, a Danube bridge located on Romanian territory was carried out at the joint Bulgarian-Romanian border point by a joint Bulgarian-Romanian patrol. After the gas measurements, an analyst has established elevated values and nine persons have been found who have been returned to Bulgarian territory. It has been established from the reports made in the AIS system that no entry has been registered in the country. Turkish citizens have not been able to prove their entry into the Republic of Bulgaria under the legal order of art. 8, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. During the police search, their regular personal documents were found, from which it became clear that seven of the persons were Turkish citizens. You are assured that after the coup attempt in Turkey, the people who were declared supporters of Gülen, the Turkish side cancelled the validity of their documents. That's one detail. In the course of the inquiries, they were not found to appear as wanted persons, two were without documents and claimed to be Syrian nationals, other measures were taken. During the talks, it became clear that they had all intended to reach a country in Western Europe, Germany or Austria, some of them having relatives there and pointing out that they had gone to work in these countries. None of them at any of the stages at which they have been contacted has declared political reasons for leaving Turkey. I've never met a single person in person with the testimony and the documents. The subsequent allegations that appeared in the media contradicted this procedure. Surprises are.. can be explained by a series of human arguments. The nine persons have been subject to pre-trial proceedings under the description of the Russian Prosecutor's Office under art. 279, para. 1 of the Penal Code and the driver of the truck has been formed pre-trial proceedings under art. 280, para. Two for sewerage. The materials of the registered pre-trial proceedings were reported at the District Prosecution Office Ruse and subsequently terminated in accordance with the PPC. Following the termination of pre-trial proceedings, persons should be subject to forced administrative measures by Border Police. They are imposed by the head of the GPO Ruse, under art. 39a, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 41, p. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The orders for this forced departure to the border were also signed by individuals in the presence of a translator and a Turkish-language employee, which proves that the persons were officially notified of the measures to be taken against them. Their rights have been explained by an employee of the Regional Directorate of Border Police and again with the help of a translator for which there is a declaration. They have also certified this with the signature of each line of questions that have been raised before them. None of the detained citizens of Turkey have taken advantage of their right to seek international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria under the provisions of art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Asylum and Refugees. In para. 2 is mentioned that the request for protection is carried out in person and of its own free will. Syrian citizens, unlike the Turkish detained, have asked our country to launch a migration status procedure. This happens at the same time in the same place. This is why no measure was imposed on them to get out of the country. Turkish citizens have been explained, as at the outset, that they have the right to appeal the 24-hour detention order and subsequently that they can also appeal the forced administrative measure. On 15 October they were transferred to a special home for temporary accommodation of foreigners in Lyubimets at the Directorate of Migration of the Ministry of Interior on the grounds of art. 44, para. 6 and para. 10 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. To the relevant center are led by a patrol by the Border Police "Ruse," which has no right to take them to the border..................................................................................................................................... 575 persons were accommodated at home on that date at a capacity of 300 persons. In view of this and on the basis of art. 60, para. 1 of the APC prior implementation of the removal measures has been allowed. On the basis of art. 44, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior the persons were accompanied by officers of the Directorate of Migration to the Station of Captain Andreevo and handed over to the Turkish border authorities under the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons residing illegally from 2014. " What you have quoted, with the clarification I have made. It shall be in full force in its part "Acceptance of own nationals" and in accordance with Section III "Receiving procedure" art. 7, p. 3: If the person to be readmitted holds a valid travel document or identity card, the transfer of such person shall take place without requiring the requesting State to submit a readmission application or a written notification under art. 12, § 1 to the competent authority of the State addressed. In conclusion, in this part the seven Turkish citizens have passed through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without seeking international protection in front of any state authority, but have used our country as a transit point for migration to Western Europe. The persons could not prove their entry into the Republic of Bulgaria in the legal order and because of the lack of legal grounds for residence in the Republic of Bulgaria were handed over to the Turkish authorities to Captain Andreevo. To the question you have asked me, whether they have applied for political asylum in Bulgaria, I answer, firstly, that there is no such term "political asylum" and according to the Law on Asylum and Refugees Bulgaria provides foreigners with three types of protection: - first, asylum, which is granted only by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria "in accordance with its designated powers in the cases under art. 27, para. You quoted para. 1 "From the Constitution, as well as when state interests or special circumstances so require. According to art. 58, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, a foreigner who wants to be granted asylum, must submit a written application to the President. It may also submit an application in writing to another State authority which is obliged to forward it; - the second species is international asylum.. these are refugee and humanitarian status; - the third species is temporary protection for those who cannot return to the country from which they come. Requests under the second and third types of protection may also be made orally. Anyone to whom this has been done must initiate a procedure for granting them. This is the case with everyone who has crossed the Bulgarian border and illegally, including Turkish citizens, who are currently awaiting a decision of the SAB (State Agency for Refugees). There are also such citizens who, on entering the territory of the state, are requesting such status. Anyone who wants to guarantee their safety and life is supposed to do it on the way in. As the Law states, he may at any time do so, even verbally, which has not been done. I repeat, these faces didn't do it. And I specify that in view of the professions quoted by you and perhaps the education of these citizens, they had information about all the legal aspects of the situation in which they themselves take and decide to be, with the conscious hiding in secrets, the glue of facilities that do not allow gas analysers to identify them. As they should know what their rights as citizens are, because it's still about you said police officers, lecturers, intelligent people. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , are not of another type of refugees who are usually illiterate. I think the employees have taken the necessary measures. I've personally ordered a check to recheck the documents and their testimony.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mr. Atanasov, you have four minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I question some of the facts that you have presented because of the simple consideration that one party in this case is no longer here and there is no way to verify these circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u70	General, let's invite them back and bring them back!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u71	You are saying that these people in the search had identity documents - this is a very important circumstance because Bulgaria and Turkey have visa-free regime! If these people wanted to enter the territory of Bulgaria through the border crossing, they had no problem, which means that they would not be allowed, in order to hide in a truck, not from the Bulgarian state, but from the Turkish state, to leave their country. It's a circumstance. Apart from that. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, they illegally entered the country, but that fact doesn't matter. It is also in confirmation of the doubt that these people were persecuted and therefore sought another way out of Turkey and not in the legal order. If they didn't have any threat to themselves and could leave Turkey normally, they would have done so in due order, provided that I say again, they have identity documents, and you yourself said here that those who were involved in the coup attempt were taken away from them. So they're not of that category. [[Noise and lines.]] Then why in this order... Please put them in order, your people! Can you do that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u72	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u73	That's... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u74	Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u75	Apart from that. Yesterday at a hearing in the Commission for Control of the Services and the SRS representatives of the SANS said that they had nothing to do with the case, that is to say it is not related to national security, and then interestingly by what criteria did you consider that they should be taken out of Bulgaria? In what way are they endangering public order in the country? Last but not least, as this case became public, various representatives of the state took part, including the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister said that we should trust the services. I'm asking: what services do we trust to DPS, Delyan's services? Oh, yeah? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking the question again! The Prime Minister also said that people hiding on trucks will be returned. Why don't you answer the question: why are these people hiding in the trucks to enter the territory of Bulgaria? I call into question a part of the circumstances that you have laid out for signing these persons, and there is no lawyer. There was a translator, okay. There's no lawyer, 279 NK pretrial proceedings! The investigating authority shall inform the persons that they have the right to an attorney present. In the public domain came information from relatives of these people that lawyers were provided to them, but when they went to our checkpoint at the exit to Turkey, the persons had already been taken out of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u77	Dear Mr. Atanasov, you amaze me! I hope it's an accident. Second legal inaccuracies today, with Turkey, we have a visa regime. We have a visa regime with Turkey! I don't know why you don't know.! This is the reason why some citizens are forced to pass illegally. I can tell you that for the same period last year, 56 have passed and have been captured, detained and returned to Turkey... Right now with these seven, there's 66. They're pretty much the same number. That is, a typical example of economic migration. This is the reason why they do not stop in Bulgaria, so that they can then at the border of the Schengen area one of them claims that his close Schengen visa was available there. In this case, if they enter legally, we must also stop them and not allow them to enter our territory. As far as the defence is concerned, in the form of the declaration they filed, they replied that they did not wish and signed. In the procedure that we have applied, after refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings, there is no requirement that a lawyer be present. Lawyers appeared after more than two days after the measure was applied and these people were taken out. The fact that they were able to contact their loved ones on the phone before being taken to the Lyubimets point, that is, their phones were left with the batteries, i.e. working, shows that none of the employees were worried about giving them this opportunity and being able to communicate what was happening to them. From the materials I've come to know, and the reaction of their loved ones, I understand their anxiety, it's legitimate, but it seems to me that they didn't know that they were going this way illegally. They have very detailed how and why they have taken the illegal passage. The fact that in one way it has been handled by Syrian citizens who have requested asylum and Turkish citizens shows that it has not acted in a package against everyone and without taking into account the details. On the contrary, these details are relevant. I think from a case in which the Bulgarian border authorities acted under the Law and in the interest of national security and the protection of borders, you are trying to bring up a political case which, I regret, the arguments do not confirm it. I'm sorry for you, but I can say that we are trying in every way without creating double standards, following strict border guards and avoiding illegal passage. Once again, there are cases where Turkish citizens come, they say they are cannonballists, they want status and they are subject to the necessary procedures. That's the practice. I think we meet our expectations and our powers and obligations to guard the citizens of Bulgaria securely and uncompromisingly. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The last question to you is from the MP Mihail Mikov on measures to reduce traffic jams on Danube Bridge Vidin. [[Noise and lines.]] You have a statement? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov. Excuse me, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the group "Patriotic Front." The Chairman of the group Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u79	You're neglecting us again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u80	How I neglect you, here's the word!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Donchev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! On 15 July 2016, a failed coup attempt was made in the Republic of Turkey. Governments subsequently launched mass repression, arrests, dismissals and limitation of Turkish democratic and human rights. There has been a dramatic increase in military action in Kurdish-populated areas, followed by numerous suicide attacks in Istanbul, Ankara and other major Turkish cities. Turkey is in a state of civil war and this is an undisputed fact that the Bulgarian state must accept, consider and take into account in all its judgments, decisions and actions. The scale of repression affects not only Turkey's stability but also the security of the whole of Southeast Europe. According to the leader of the main opposition People's Republican party Kemal Kalicdaroglu, there are over 1 million Turkish citizens affected by repression. Several hundred central regional media have been closed down. In a report by the Council of Ministers of Turkey from the end of September in twelve Balkan countries, thirty-three NGOs, managed by the FETO, have been operating in the organisation of the main opponent of Erdogan, Fethullah Gulen. According to the report, 19,000 660 are trained in the schools of FETO, of which 6500 are in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2800, Kosovo, 2,500, Romania, 2200, and Bulgaria is there in the queue with 1,100 students from two primary and primary schools. Why am I enumerating these facts? It is crystal clear that the repression and actions of the Turkish state will not be restricted only to the territory of Turkey itself. It is crystal clear that the Turkish intelligence services and their protegees from the pro-Turkish parties DPS and DOT, which do not see them at all, are working to neutralize these hostiles, according to Erdogan, educational and propaganda centres. It is crystal clear that the Turkish state is preparing large-scale and brutal interference in the internal affairs not only of Bulgaria but also of a number of Balkan countries. In confirmation of the above are Erdogan's statements in the last two weeks, in which he shared twice the thought limits of his wet sultan dreams. In Erdogan's dreams, the borders fall into Aleppo in Syria, Musul in Iraq, and this clearly shows where Turkey is beating. Within these borders, alas, fall and dear to every Bulgarian heart geographical names such as Kardzhali, Belomorska Thrace, Macedonia, Belomorie. We, the United patriots, kept warning of these dangers. Leaded by the ultimate goal of protecting the Bulgarian national interests and limiting Turkey's intervention in our internal affairs, we have managed to convince colleagues from GERB, the Reformist bloc and some of the other groups that the Election Code should limit the number of sections, mainly in Turkey. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 3 At the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations in the places and countries not members of the European Union, out-of-diplomatic or consular representation shall be formed by decision of the Central Election Commission on the basis of polling stations on the basis of not less than 60 voters submitting applications. The total number of polling stations formed in one country shall not exceed 35s! Colleagues, I quote to you verbatim the texts set out in the Election Code. With these texts, we have deliberately given the right of diplomatic and consular representations in Turkey to decide on their own whether to discover the full number of 35 sections, especially in the current explosive situation. We have also deliberately given the CEC the right to make a final decision on this matter. But what did Bulgarian diplomacy and our Ambassador in Ankara specifically do? Since the end of September, Nadezhda Neynski has launched a shuttle in which he has held a number of meetings with expatriates in Ankara, Istanbul, Edirne and Bursa. The aim of the tours was to campaign for applications to open sections in spite of repression and chaos in Turkey. Until now, Ms. Neynsky, whose working day passes between the gym and the beauty salon, has directed her entire activity in preparing the full number of sections and full assistance of the expatriate organisations and Turkish services to ensure a maximum number of manipulated votes from Turkey. We recommend to the Bulgarian security services to take an interest in this, as well as in the numerous business meetings of her husband with different Turkish and foreign representatives of companies she organizes during working hours. We note to the Minister of Foreign Affairs that now Mrs Neynski's main task is to organize a fashion show at our embassy in Ankara in the week between the two tours! Her next very important task is organizing in December of Tango Night! [[Laughter and excitement.]] We can only assume what will be the results of the elections held in Turkey for the Bulgarian president, given the highly responsible patriotic activity of our ambassador. Such, by the way, is the activity of the entire embassy in Ankara, traditionally secured almost entirely with DPS footage. For example, the representative of the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Bachvarova, I don't know if you're listening...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u82	I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u83	The representative of the Ministry of Interior at our embassy in Ankara is called Bainur Mehmed Ali of the DPS Dobrich. I don't know if you know?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u84	Very good employee!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u85	All right! And for regular employees from typists to janitors, people with membership books from DPS are employed mainly from Bulgarian expatriates. The elections held in Turkey so far show that we cannot rely on the Bulgarian state's representatives who have been sent to control on election day. As a rule, none of them speak Turkish. Trapped two days before the elections they use their time mainly for market and tourism. As a rule, the embassy accommodates them in hotels of members of the DPS, as is the case, for example, in Izmir and Istanbul. Again as a rule, these are people who have nothing to do with diplomacy and are employees of other ministries, such as the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I quote the last election. Those hikers, unfortunately, can't be trusted. The last drop that passed the cup of our patience was when yesterday, through the air of the national media, the Bulgarian people learned that by announcing on the streets of Turkish cities, threats were made to our expatriates that they would lose their Bulgarian citizenship and social benefits if they did not vote in the Presidential elections on 6 November. They are also offered organized transportation on the day of the vote to the Ankara Embassy. It is clear who once again commands and determines the choice of the expatriates that this is the Turkish totalitarian state and the usurper of power Erdogan. Once again, the selling Bulgarian officials and our home institutions are serving the decision on the election results of the Republic of Turkey! Once again, despite the warning of the Patriotic Front and the new coalition, the elections in Turkey will be corrupted. However, it is not too late to take decisive measures to eliminate this danger. Election Coalition "United Patriarchs" "NFSB," Attack, VMRO and People's Union," strongly defend the following four points, which must be urgently implemented. First, a review of the CEC Decision and a limitation of the sections in Turkey only on the territory of diplomatic and consular representations; the opening of additional sections outside means only another manipulation of the elections and interference in the sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Glauchev, we are convinced that the ruling GERB party does not need a professional victory with the help of several tens of thousands of votes that would possibly bring from Turkey DOST, DPS and the Turkish state as a whole. I'm sure you don't need them. Secondly, the Foreign Ministry made a strong protest note to the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in connection with the election pressure put on the exoduss from Bulgaria. Thirdly, for representatives of the Bulgarian state in the SIK to be sent only Turkish-speaking, well-prepared representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u86	We don't have enough men.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u87	We don't have that many people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u88	You don't have to make a formal statement, send yourself people who are prepared. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u89	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u90	And fourthly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately called off Ambassador Nadezhda Neynski and replaced her with a diplomat with experience in the career to protect the interests of the country consistently and responsibly, because the interests of Bulgaria not only for the United patriots, but for the entire Bulgarian people are above everything! In conclusion, let us strongly condemn the behaviour of the Bulgarian MEPs from the new ominous coalition: BSP and DPS, who with their votes secured the adoption of a resolution to promote migration and socialization of African adventurers [[Applause from GERB]] in Europe and in Bulgaria. Shine the true depraved face of the main villains of the transition! Disgrace and anathema for the traitors! [[Laughter]] Long live Bulgaria! [[Loud applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there any other declarations? Not yet. Mr. Mikov, come in. [[National Representative Valeri Simeonovo spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] Mr. Simeonov, please! Question from the MP Mihail Mikov concerning measures to reduce traffic congestion on Danube Bridge 2 in Vidin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Ministers! Dear Minister, since the beginning of June on Danube Bridge 2 Vidin Columns are forming from five to seven kilometers in some days. Drivers wait five to ten hours. I was there on Sunday, talking to them. They're losing. They're running out of wine stickers, with fast-breaking goods, you know what's going on. It often happens when someone gets ahead of the column, to have a fight. The last case was with the finger of a driver who tried to outrun the others, which created an extremely fighting environment in the undertows of Danube Bridge 2. I will not comment on what is happening in this section from 5 to 7 km in the underpasses of Danube Bridge 2. You can pass, you can pass from the Environmental Ministry, because there are no toilet conditions there, and these drivers are standing in the field and whatever nature has provided. [[Laughter and excitement from GERB]] for them. [[Heckling]] At the same time, the billings are running out. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u93	Which finger was bitten off, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u94	Notice, the people in these 400.500 waiting cars.. laugh colleagues, but it is not a laughing matter when you sit 8. 10 hours in the truck.. they receive remuneration per mile. It slows them down considerably. Given that there are five possible crossings, only three routes work due to lack of people. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova]] I'm not saying it's just the Ministry of Interior. There should be looking for an increase in overall capacity, including talks with the Romanian side. I know that the issue of migrants makes it difficult for a heart beating system that applies to every truck. It makes it difficult and slows traffic. A solution must be found, so my question concerns thousands of drivers, companies carriers, cargo and mostly concerns Bulgaria. What measures will be taken to unblock traffic there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u96	Dear Mr. Mikov, yes! A serious problem, especially in this part of the Northwestern part of Bulgaria, problems related to the infrastructure are very important. They are creating problems for citizens, unfortunately, which also affects general economic development. Before I answer you specifically, I would like to tell you that, with the strengthening of the checks and the new changes to the Schengen Code, we will probably have to do double control from both Bulgarian and Romanian countries very soon. We are trying very hard to adopt a decision that will enable us now to remain in the current situation, so that the checks are carried out only on one side, because in relation to strengthening the measures for border control and check of citizens there is such a proposal. The borders between Bulgaria and Romania are being maintained external borders of the Schengen area. That's probably the main line we're working on right now. It will solve a series of other problems that are happening. The delay, the specific delay, when crossing the crossing of the crossing of the crossing of the border, is the result of the additional control carried out by the Romanian services, the National Road Infrastructure Administration Company and the Office conducting the fiscal control. The control is carried out before and after the local border police inspection, the joint police officers carried out by Bulgarian and Romanian. National Service services are stationed in a control booth before police check-in. The control carried out by the employees of ANAF (the National Tax Administration Agency of Romania) is carried out mainly at a one-stop shop and is in close proximity after the police control booths at the exit from the Republic of Bulgaria. In increasing the length of the waiting-car columns, the Bulgarian border police, agreed with the Romanian police, includes additional exit route buses for carrying out border checks on freight vehicles, with which the freight traffic routes increase to three, but the crossing power cannot be increased, given the delay in carrying out the control by the Romanian service. Notwithstanding that the delay is not due to the actions of police checks and regional crossing structures within this month, meetings shall be held with border control services at each border point. The measures are aimed at ensuring a continuous workflow at the border point, including during the time of withdrawal and overlap of shifts, ensuring sufficient numbers of staff in the shifts to open additional jobs if necessary on weekends and holidays and in cases of a sharp increase of the airport. In the event of a significant increase in traffic on the individual crossing routes by decision of the head of duty and in coordination with the other border control services as well as the joint services, the rules on the separation of road vehicles on the separate crossing routes shall be changed in order to increase the crossing points, improve the information exchange between border control services and border services in the case of deficiencies at the border crossing point in order to take measures to address the reasons for delay or stop traffic. On 19 October this year, a working meeting was held at the border management in Vidin, Romanian Border Guard, Romanian NKAPI (National Road Infrastructure Administration Company), Romania's National Agency The Bulgarian side raises questions about the need to optimize the activities in carrying out the control activities of the services that carry out one at the border crossing Vidin Bridge, the Danube Bridge in order to reduce the time for passing the trucks through the points. The Romanian National Commission has assured that they will take measures to increase the number of employees in order to increase the efficiency of handling trucks. That's what we've been able to do. And in international terms, the other actions that I hope will ease the controls or at least not lead to such problems that we are facing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mr. Mikov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. I'm going back there on Sunday to see how this Sunday is after these measures, but I don't think it's going to happen at border authority level. I think it is good to invite either the Ambassador of Romania or to seek communication with the Minister of the Interior of Romania, because at some point this bridge, which is the most direct route from Asia and Turkey to Europe, because the cargo crossing the European border of Captain Andreevo and the most direct entry into the European Union, when the traffic is diverted from it, because of this 8 hours wait, serious losses are being made to Bulgaria. This issue is outside the transit regime and border control alone. You are also Deputy Prime Minister and I think you can coordinate this with the Minister of Finance and with the Minister of Transport not so much, but before everyone with the Minister of Finance. The most important issue is to secure the composition. Five of the routes have been made. They've never been released at the same time and they've never been released because there are no people. Once on the Romanian side, I sit down and talk to the Romanians, because Romania may at some point stop all the routes to create difficulties to pass the ferry of Oryahovo or go to Danube Bridge 1. Romania can do it, but I think the Bulgarian interest requires that we be the active party in ensuring the crossing power of Danube Bridge 2. And most importantly, the human factor. A few years ago, there were a few loose ends. Turns out it wasn't enough. Then they got smaller. The posting of Turkish border officials in relation to migration problems also burden these officials and they work in a regime of extreme overload. Without an increase in composition, it can't be done. The facility is extremely profitable. It is true that it is in another office, but this money through the dividend end of the year goes into the state budget. If there's any agreement with the Ministry of Transport, with the other departments... And when the traffic stops because of this stay, it will stop being so profitable, so I appeal for understanding. For double control, let's look for solutions to implement in depth. There is no need for control to be carried out at the border checkpoint itself. And the last I hope to enter Schengen, but not in this situation. Then the matter will be resolved. There will be no need for anyone to stand on these routes, but until then increase the composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. You're not going to take advantage of the right to the back. Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to ask Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. The inquiry was made by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and the National Representative Dora Yankova on the policy of absorption of funds from the European Union for the programming period 2014 - 2020. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, my question is on the policy of the government, and perhaps of all beneficiaries, on the absorption of funds during this planning period, the second for Bulgaria: 2014 We're already at the end of the third year in capital absorption. By yesterday's date, the information system shows that nearly 912 million are actually paid out, about 5.5% and 30% are agreed. There is one question: we, in fact, as a Member State of the European Union, during the past first period and with the echo of the first period, at the beginning of the second period, already have the self-esteem of both the State and the beneficiaries and the institutions, that we have gained experience in the absorption of funds. I listened to you carefully at the meeting of the National Association of Municipalities. You, as Vice-President of the Council of Ministers on European Affairs and Economic Policy, may not without reason share two issues on regional differences and contrasts in the country and on the demographic issues that stand. And here is the question, there is a discussion in the country at the moment and in particular in the periphery of large district cities: will there be white fields in the second planning period, and if there is, why would there be them? At that time, there is the feeling of people dealing with this matter that at the heart of the discussion in the European Parliament and the Commission it is at the centre to place integrated territorial investments and local development led by the Community. When the government entered parliament, you said two things: European funds and targeted investment programme. From the discussion in parliament about the targeted investment programme, only you are still optimistic. The minister of finance before me spoke here, from this tribune, that he was skeptical in the way the programme was proposed to compensate for the white fields and the discussion in the country, and the feeling of lack of funds to equalise these differences in the regions and to be able to fight the demographic problems in the country. My question is: at the end of the third year the policy of the government, and not only of the government, you as the head of all these processes, which you know very well how the system works, what is your expectation of an effective policy with European funds as an impact on the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The text of the question that has come in writing has nothing to do with the question you have asked me right now. But I will make it possible to answer both the question that has been declared in advance and what I have just heard in this House. First, regarding the delay. There is no delay in using the funds if I have to give a brief answer. In order to talk about delay, for example, we need to compare with other countries. The analysis of interim payments at the moment shows that we are in no way doing worse than other Member States, between them and some with decades of experience. The analysis in the comparison with the previous programming period shows the same, in so far as 160 procedures, totaling 12 billion, have been announced under the operational programmes. lv. At the end of the third year of this programming period Bulgaria can boast that it has announced over 76% of the total budget, which is a fact. The comparative analysis of the data clearly shows that the implementation of the programmes of the current programming period 2014 - 2020 is significantly superior to all indicators the previous programming period 2007 - 2013. Although the resource of the current programming period is significantly greater by nearly 700 million more, even if we do not count the so-called A few data in that direction. For the period 2007 - 2013 the total agreed funds as of mid-2009 were 6,69% of the total resource and at the end of 2009 the negotiation reached 14,06%. For the 2014-2020 programming period, the same reference period, which is about the same, has been agreed, as you said, 30% funds, and my expectations are to increase significantly by the end of the year, given the large percentage of the total declared budget, meaning we have a difference of two or three times, depending on the calculation methodology. Similar is the difference with regard to gross payments. The funds actually paid for this programming period exceed more than twice those of the previous one. In 2009 the funds actually paid to the beneficiaries were 0,94% of the total budget, or 100 and several million, and by the end of 2009 this percentage reached 2.62%. For the period 2014-2020 to date they are 5,44%, i.e. 912 million, is chasing a billion, i.e. significantly more where we look at it. It is right to add that all this is happening in a very different and changed environment where the funds should be used. Firstly, the year 2014 was completely zero, 2015, the old and the new programming period overlapped, and 2015 huge efforts were made to end in a good way, which happened, the old programming period. In addition, besides using money, as some say, European funding currently has a completely different status. It's a catalyst for reform. Both in 2015, and in 2016, a huge part of the efforts of the administrations were focused on closing the so-called pre-conditions. However, it is obvious that the result is better. Regarding the additional questions you asked. The white spots around the periphery of large district cities have always been a problem. I regret that the Partnership Agreement was prepared in 2013 and 2014 in such a way as to replicate the white spots again. There is not a very good chance of both political and technical opening the Partnership Agreement in order to reprogram one of the programmes and to provide funding either from the Rural Development Programme or from the ODA for the so-called white spots. There must be a general function of the state budget, in combination with the budgets of the local authorities. With regard to the targeted investment programme, I must make it clear that it is neither stopped nor thwarted or revised the intention to launch such a programme. It is currently enriched with additional measures in the social sphere and in the field of education, because I believe that only infrastructure measures would not have this deep socio-economic effect that we are aiming for. And to your most comprehensive question: what is the policy regarding the use of European money? I've had a chance to comment before, but let me score a few points. First of all, simplification, or simplification, easier access to money and less administrative procedures. Electronic submission of projects, electronic reporting is an important step in this direction. You have probably noted that in the new programming period these processes run entirely paperless, or entirely electronic, which is both time savings and paper savings, and easier access, and easier traceability. Equal rights of all participants in the process, which, I thank the National Assembly, was settled with the so-called EU Funds Act, which clearly regulates both the rights and the responsibilities of each participant in the process. And most importantly, yes, we have to monitor the payments. This is done on a daily basis, including me following him. There should be no risk of automatic release of funds whatsoever, but the most important thing is that other than the amount of money used, this is the effect of them. What needs to be set as a major goal, besides having as many payments as possible, close to 100 percent, is that each investee euro or lev has a greater effect, i.e. looking for maximum added value. You were right to assume that we have gained self-confidence in using money is the next higher goal and task to pursue. And another addition, the art of combining the European resource with the national. This will be more important in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have two minutes for up to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, you are an ambitious man and perhaps the most ambitious member of the government. I don't want to compare it to the first planning period, then we were in the first grade. We are now in the realities of the second planning period and in the third year. You've been in charge for two years now. I have my reasons for concern not by numbers. Isun every day who comes in says statistics: how much money is paid and how much is agreed. I have my concern that the 2009 Water Act is not being implemented, the administration is not being strained and even all players in the horizontal, vertical, who are engaged in general plans of water associations, experts from the government, I could even inform you, comment that this planning can end in mid-2018. And I see 0.84 in a large package that is the Water Reform Fund and it is the first. Underground is placed and upgraded then everything. It is also related to the quality of life. From this point on, my concern is this big package related to the implementation of water reform, will you strain all the beneficiaries, the entire administration and all the players who are in this programme so that we can not lose money? It's our concern that you're going way back. The second question I put for a reason. Minister Pavlova of blitzcontrol said in the Committee on Regional Development that from 39 cities, which are in growth regions along Axis 1, only six municipalities have allocated up to 20% for impact on the rural periphery. Now we know that in these big cities with very few exceptions, you are politically leading these processes. Have you given a political sign, or is it a misunderstanding to the mayors, because in a large municipality, polycentricly, it could be developed in large metropolitan settlements to put funds in. These are the concerns that are related to what we were just talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u106	Dear Mrs. Yankova, I have a lot of concerns too, but my job is not to worry, but to find solutions. With regard to supplementary questions. Firstly, water reform, you rightly pointed out, although indirectly, that the use of funds from the Water Sector Cohesion Fund is directly linked to the closure of the pre-condition. I am convinced that thanks to the actions of all responsible departments it will be closed and 2017 we will have a peaceful opportunity to invest, including in the sector. Yes, there are challenges of consolidation, and when we talk about political reason and common goals that are not subject to political speculation and hysterisation, we should note that water reform sometimes goes hard, including because of the political speculation that is being made on the ground. In consolidation, which city would steal the other's pipes, drag his company and so on. And if it wasn't for those hysterical attempts, the trial might have been over by now. You know, there are literally a few unconsolidated territories left. Until they are consolidated, they will stay away from the big investments, from the Cohesion Fund. There is another challenge here: how will water companies cope with the role of beneficiary and investor? Here the only solution is, as a result of long talks with the European Commission, to think of an option for them to be supported by local authorities. A lot of capacity is there. They've been running these projects so far. After all, not the most important experts to which institution they are under contract, but to have experts. A water project you know alone, for several million is a huge challenge. As experience shows in some cities, if there is no proper management, if there is no expertise, it can become a disaster. You can't let that happen. With regard to the second issue related to the Operational Programme "Regional Development" (OPR). He referred to a topic that we discussed a little earlier the way in which white spots are addressed. The concept which was developed at the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013 was the villages, including around major cities, to be financed by the Rural Development Programme. They're no different than the other villages. They're no different, and they're largely in an underprivileged situation. This is what I commented a few moments ago that a wrong model was chosen in preparation for the partnership agreement 2013 and 2014. This to allow the villages to be financed from the same source from which the urbanized territory is to be financed creates unfair competition for both the mayor and the municipal council, for the simple reason that the intensity of use of any facility was pavement, road, building and so on is very different in the central city and in any village. I mean, that's our mistake. However, as you well know, both the agreement and the programme were in a mature phase and could not be changed, and, as I said earlier, this is not particularly realistic as a mechanism. You can't expect that there are no political nuances here, despite the care of both the periphery and the villages, an investment in the central urban area to be in competition and to be compared to an investment in a village where 200, 300, 500 or 600 people live. The road is different, the source of funding must be another, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Dear Mrs. Yankova, if you'd like to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Donchev, my address to you after this discussion is: fight in the Budget Act to devote funds to the targeted Development Program of the North-West, the Rhodopes, the Stranja-Sakars, mountain and semi-mountain regions. There the problems are screaming in terms of both demography and behind in regional development. You know that there are a lot of district cities there, and these are part of the feeling that the state is not there, that other problems are going in these regions, that they are abandoned by the state, and there is no way for us to have another year of discussion on the issues that you have said. The program is written, but it is not an act of the Council of Ministers. It is still only on the Regional Development Council. Second question. We'll be watching carefully! We don't want the country to drop a dollar from those scheduled for its development and modernization. But I'm addressing you: strain the systems! There is no reason for a municipality not wanting to join the agglomeration, to say that because of a flea quilt is not burned. This is not a problem, it is a matter of discussion, it is a matter of political discussions, it is a matter of exercising power and naturally with one or two retail games we cannot here, from the platform of parliament, justify ourselves. Those are the questions! The feeling of.. you actually said: the agreement cannot change, but I remember your understanding of the issues led by the community.. Local development..... how each managing body keeps its basket and wants to allocate resources to make an impact on these territories. That is why I appeal to you: more actively strain the beneficiaries, do not pity them that they are in elections and our country should not lose lev on any issues, even related to solidarity, war and migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. We should also thank Deputy Prime Minister Donchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions of Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defence. He will answer first a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the fate of the unused properties of the former School for Reserve Officers in Botev. Pleven. You have the floor, dear Mr. Antonov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Nenchev, in implementation of the reforms in the Bulgarian Army at the end of May 2008 was closed the elite School of Reserve Officers in the town. Pleven School, where 3,500 sub-officers were educated each year, who entered the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. At the same time, they were prepared by 1,500 officers and sergeants who lived in Pleven and gave, of course, their appearance and contribution to the city. Today, in the territory of the former School of Reserve Officers, a unit of 22160 is operating, which is in times less and in number, and on the use of the material base. My specific question to you is: what is the state and what is the perspective of the former unit of the School of Reserve Officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mr. Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, if you would allow me, before I answer your question in detail, to give a little more information about issues which have been addressed to me, mainly by the opposition, and they are related to whether we have provided the necessary conditions for the servicemen to vote in the next presidential and vice president elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u113	Wait a minute, Mr. Nenchev. Stop the response time as the Minister can give information on a topic that is not really on the current issue. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I owe it to you to inform you that the military servicemen in the country who perform their professional duties will be able to exercise their right to vote in the elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the National referendum on 6 November on Sunday. The necessary organization has been established without violating the performance of the military duties. Commanders of military formations who perform security duties at the border will provide servicemen with conditions to participate in the elections without disturbing the border security schedule. I've done all this, ladies and gentlemen, long before you asked these questions. We have been working for months in very close cooperation with the CEC as well, so we have created the necessary organisation, including the crew of the frigate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u115	What about the contingent in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u116	Turn to the CEC and to the Foreign Ministry. Everything that's up to me, I'll do it. Thank you. Dear Mr. Antonov, the question you have asked is related to two properties of public government property, which are located in the town of Pleven and are parts of a military area. On the basis of a ministerial order from March 2009, as you have already mentioned, the two properties are exempt from military formation 22160 Pleven, as properties with a devoid need for the Bulgarian army and are accepted for management by the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence's view of the exempted infrastructure and the property concerned shall be limited to that or sold by auction or free of charge to the municipality or other departments if they so request and prove their need to use the property as intended. For your information, the Municipality of Pleven deposited with the Ministry of Defence a request for free transfer of ownership of one of the properties for the implementation of the project "Integrating plan for urban reconstruction and development of the town of Pleven." For the same property in 2014 and 2015 the opportunity to be declared necessary for the Bulgarian army in connection with the opening of the Higher Air School to be located in the area of Pleven and Lower Metropolitan. At present, the same property is included in the list of properties that are suitable for the realization of a project to provide a housing fund for servicemen by establishing a right to build on them. The third part of the military area is in the management of Land Forces. The vision for the management of military and liberated infrastructure is a dynamic process, apart from the organizational construction of the Bulgarian Army and the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u117	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Nenchev, I thank you for your information regarding the basis of the School of Reserve Officers. That's exactly what you said, but you missed the most recent part of the question. During the last 20 days on the territory of Division 22160 in Pleven an inspection is carried out by your Ministry, representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, investigating the territory of the unit for accommodation of a refugee centre of closed type. This is largely the concern of the population of Pleven and Pleven region.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u119	Ask Stanishev. Ask Stanishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u120	I expected that you would comment on the information I am exporting, and you comment on what has happened to the distant 2008 - 2009. The situation in Pleven and Pleven district is difficult, especially in Pleven municipality. And the whole country often hears about the raids in Bear, in Brashljanitsa, no less the situation in Bukovlak, Disevitsa, Varbitsa, Pelishat and other settlements. It is impressive that neither is commented on by the municipality, which speaks of an agreement and of a pre-solving of the issues. The objective truth requires that you answer: are such surveys currently taking place and what will you do in this direction? The unit is located in the central city of Pleven, around it are the corps of the Medical University, on the University base, here are more than half the elite schools of Pleven and 300 meters in the eastern direction is the central core of the town of Pleven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. For the doppelganger, the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Antonov, of course I will answer you in the clearest and most clear way possible... not only to you, but also to the inhabitants of the town of Pleven. I've never been asked to do that. I have never, in any form, sent any committees to investigate the area with a view to almost providing it for a refugee centre. I say it with all my responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a question from the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva regarding the release from military service of Gen. Major Rumen Radev, Commander of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria from 2014 to 2016. To develop his question has the floor of the people's representative Mrs. Tasheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u124	Mr. Minister, due to the increased public interest, I would like to be answered by the following: which text of Articles 227 and 228 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act was released General. Major Rumen Radev? In particular: has the general resigned because of his disagreement with the contract for repair of the MiG 29 engines and the joint air security agreement known as the Air Polysling, which he has claimed to be more humiliating than the New York Treaty? How many flight hours does the general have for 2015 and 2016, and under what conditions was he released? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Mr. Nikolai Nenchev, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, as Commander of the Air Force General. Major Radev filed a report on 1 August 2016, in which he expressed his wish to be released from military service on the grounds of art. 169 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria due to the acquired right of pension under the conditions of art. 69, para. 4 of the Social Security Code. As a motive for his retirement gene. Radev has indicated disagreement with the Concept for the implementation of the joint implementation of the Airspace Control and Security Mission of the Republic of Bulgaria within the integrated NATO anti-aircraft and missile defence system with active means of other member states of the Alliance. In this regard, I would like to emphasise that the airspace security mission is a peaceful NATO mission. Strengthening the security capabilities of the Eastern flank countries, including the Baltic Republics and Romania, is part of NATO's decision at the Wales Summit. The main objective of this mission is to ensure the integrity and security of the airspace of these countries and to increase interoperability between the allies and to show full solidarity between the members of the Alliance. In other words, this is a decision that we have made at the highest level in NATO to ensure a great deal of our security. I cannot understand how a Bulgarian general can oppose a political decision taken at the highest level in the first place. The motive for the landing of the Bulgarian aviation is completely groundless, as we are talking about a joint implementation of a mission, that is, our and allied means. Any ally coming to Bulgaria will expect to patrol along with our Air Force. Let me remind you that in February this year the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces in order to enable the implementation of this decision, i.e. General Radev personally opposes a decision of the National Assembly, which worries me in particular. In September, for your information, we conducted the first joint mission with the US Air Force, which contributed with their powers and resources, and it was free of charge. In conclusion, I inform you that General Radev received his due by law 20 gross monthly wages, compensation for unpaid annual leave and other unsatisfied contentment of a total of 132 thousand. BGN 169. [[GERB's noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u127	He didn't quit, he got fired...! [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u128	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u129	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, you asked me... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u130	... Is that legal? [[Replication by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u131	It's not illegal, I quote the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u132	Please don't engage in any altercations! Mr. Secretary, continue. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u133	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, you ask me: how many hours did Mr. Radev fly in 2015? And I answer you specifically: he flew exactly 6 hours and got 13,000. lv. For this. [[(Voices from GERB: "Eeeee!". Loud noise and lines from GERB. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] A little over BGN 2,000. an hour. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Mrs. Tasheva, you're asking me: how much did he fly in 2016? General Radev flew around 4 hours and received 8,000. lv. For this. Thank you. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Partial applause. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Tasheva, will you use the line? Here you go. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u135	Mr. General, the data you've provided is in any case very public interest. I'm just gonna make a point. My question has given you the opportunity to make a hot defence of the Air Polysling programme.. Air patrol, to which I am a political opponent and I believe that Bulgaria, with its over 100-year history of the Air Force, should be guarding its own sky, rather than relying on foreign armies, as some microstates do, such as Slovenia and the Baltic Republics. I still thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Will you use the right for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u137	And thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Just a few words, because you mentioned the Air Polysing mission, to say that this is a peaceful mission and is not used by small countries. This is also done in Romania. Once again, this is not our whim or whim. We can do it ourselves, and we're guarding our own airspace. This is a NATO decision from the summit in Wales, so we will comply with this political decision. There is nothing better than improving interoperability with our neighbours and our allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last relevant issue in today's parliamentary control of you. Thank you for your participation. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! In political theory and philosophy, "demagogy" means gaining influence by introducing delusion. Demagog uses words that target prejudice, feelings, fears, vanity, hope. Demagogy is very often a clear lie. What can be qualified as demagogy is a controversial issue, and not today, but since Aristophanes first used the term for the Athens statesman Leon. Since then, numerous attempts have been made to define this phenomenon, and it can in fact be defined very simple and very clearly in a slogan because they are socialists, and in several names "Ninova," Yotova, Radev. And why do I think so, ladies and gentlemen? Because minutes ago it became clear that Radev did not actually resign as a disagreement with the government, Radev filed a retirement report, took 20 monthly gross salaries, took his benefits, took his funds for pleasure, flew ten hours in total and took funds for them. And all this is worth to the Bulgarian taxpayer?! " Some 135 thousand, " I considered, while Minister Nenchev was in charge. So this guy, this demagog, he's gonna talk to me about a social state. [[Applause from GERB]] , will talk to me about the pensions of the people that our government has increased several times and our government will provide additional funds for Christmas supplements for the fifth time since we managed these two years! Are these demagos, Ninova, Yotova and Sie, going to sign an agreement for fair elections?! They created Kostinbrod! Did you forget? Did you forget that?! But despite your lies, despite the manipulations of the day for reflection then in the elections, the Bulgarians voted for GERB, the Bulgarians gave their trust to GERB because trust is not built with manipulations, trust is not built with lies, but with working with people. And right now, even if you replaced the one who was digging through the ground with the one who fell into the sky, you would still not win elections, ladies and gentlemen of the left! [[BSP LB.]] What else is demagogy? Demagogy is that you do not know what your socialist colleagues voted on in the European Parliament. Demagogy is that now Mrs. Ninova will call them for an explanation next week. Mrs. Ninova, do you know what you look like in people's eyes? Either as a very weak leader, because even your own BSP party members in the European Parliament do not comply with your position, or as a demagog, not to say a stronger word. I hear you were about to separate yourself from those MEPs who voted on the resolution in question. That doesn't surprise me at all. As you distinguished yourself from Oresharski, even though he ruled with your mandate, as you separated from Peevski, even though you chose him as head of the National Security Agency. [[Applause from GERB]] , now you will probably separate yourself from Stanishev, who voted in favour of this resolution on migration [[Applause from GERB, noise and lines]] , has voted for Europe to be flooded by migrants. Is that what you're gonna do? I suspect that you will be separated from Radev when he loses the elections. [[(Comments from GERB:]] I expect you to separate yourself from his vice president, Yotova, who is circling villages and palanquins and scaring people. It is good that the Parliament next week will not work, because there is a danger that you will be separated from your own parliamentary group! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Applause by GERB.]] You have already, with the vote on this resolution and this position of your MEPs, undoubtedly separated yourself from Bulgaria, undoubtedly separated yourself from the Bulgarian citizens and this will cost you a lot! And no matter how many excuses, and no matter how many rumors that someone didn't comply with their position with you, didn't ask you or pull their ears next week, this time they don't pass. The Bulgarians will never forgive you! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u140	Thank you. Declaration on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u141	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, heavy fear has stiffened the ruling coalition. [[Replications "Auuu!" and laughter from the front row of GERB]] . Fear of the imminent loss of the presidential election and the inevitable collapse of this increasingly ugly conversation [[Replications "Eee!" in the first row of GERB]] that leads the country to the bottom. We have just witnessed this fear relapse into new and new and even more dangerous forms of manipulation, suggestion. [[GERB's front row lines]] , administrative and corporate pressure, scandalous deals...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u142	Colleagues, please don't replicate the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u143	... among the parties that led to unprecedented changes in the electoral legislation at the last second "all this in the name of one" creating comfortable conditions for another election forgery. Another theft of the voice of the Bulgarian citizen! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] How else can we explain what is happening in the last few days: You did... Don't yell at me! You have made an outrageous attempt to stop the work of the National Assembly and to silence the opposition, but you have failed! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You interrupt meetings, you chase MPs from the opposition from the House, you hide the ministers from parliamentary control, including what you are currently doing. You changed the Election Code and created prerequisites for chaos and lawlessness on election day! You have demonstrated concern for the Bulgarian voters abroad, however, you forgot to demonstrate one for the Bulgarian citizens, whom you sent on duty to the border to combat the consequences of your traitorous policy regarding the Bulgarian national interests towards the migrant problem! [[Replys "E," e, e!,,, lines from the front row of GERB.]] I'm sorry that Nenchev isn't here right now to tell him that these gymnastics you're doing here don't change the fact...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u144	Please, colleagues, do not replicate the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u145	...that you legally took away their right to vote! Why didn't you accept our proposal to be able to vote on sections on business trips? Why didn't you accept it? What are you gonna do with them now? On the plane?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u146	In the white van!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u147	You make lists of party appointments, in which you bet specific numbers to each name, such as expected votes. This, my fellow Members, is the modern-day Angaria tax! [[(Replys "Eee!"), lines from the front row of GERB.]] If you need a translation, please contact your new friends! You frighten the people with resignations and suggestions that this government is almost the only guarantor of the country's stability and Europeanisation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u148	Fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u149	You hide from the people the terrifying truths of illegal immigrants who flood our homeland! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are talking about signed agreements, and you signed and agreed to sign the extremely disadvantageous agreement between the European Union and Canada for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u150	Mrs. Atanasova, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u151	Who signed it? Did Sergei Stanishev sign it, or did you sign it? I guess in the fearsome fever you're shaking, you're not gonna stop at anything! Because you are aware that the abuses and the thefts that have been committed by your last two cabinet are enormous and their disclosure by the next government, I guarantee you that they will be revealed. [[Replications "Ehehee" by GERB]] It will put you in a critical political situation, you and your political associates! I say companions because GERB are not alone in this fellowship.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u152	That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u153	The accompanying parties from the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, the remnants of other political ones there from the last rows of political one-days, and from recently on the "Attack" are joined together in the unstoppable attempts to defamate and discredit the only candidate an alternative to the ugly status quo. The man in whom hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens saw a ray of hope for change! The man with the choice of who begins to push GERB and Boyko Borisov out of power! [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] That is also the purpose of such questions as the one we just heard. This issue is admitted by the National Assembly's leadership to parliamentary control immediately before the elections. The matter may be admissible from a procedural point of view, but it is unacceptable from a moral point of view, because this is an ugly manipulative suggestion! Its sole purpose is to denigrate the main candidate for president and the parliamentary stand to challenge his undisputed qualities, such as military honor and dignity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u154	Colleagues, please don't replicate the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u155	Here's the report! Why didn't you meet him before you asked such provocative questions?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u156	That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u157	Why didn't the dear Nenchev read what this report said? I'll read it to you: For me, as a general of the Bulgarian Army and commander of the Air Force, this concept is more humiliating even by the Neuco agreement, because the latter was imposed on Bulgaria by force from the outside, while the concept in question was initiated by a Bulgarian Deputy Minister, supported by the Defence Council, by a Bulgarian military leadership and established by the Bulgarian minister, who now went out in disgrace to not listen to these truths.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u158	What's the date? Is there an incoming number?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u159	Mr. Ivanov, don't ask questions from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u160	Is that motive enough for you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u161	Noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u162	Mr. Ivanov, please don't ask questions from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u163	A very ugly suggestion is made from this tribune! Flight hours have nothing to do with reward! These are funds that are due to every Bulgarian flyer from the captain to the general! [[Applause from BSP LB. Replies: "This is not the case!" by GERB.]] Minister Nenchev just slapped a sound slap and insulted all Bulgarian personnel officers, questioning the entire system of compensation for leaving the army. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I would like to ask those who are shouting from the front row, will the attempts to defile a worthy Bulgarian general continue...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u164	Who deserted!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u165	...who dared to go against your anti-national policy? Is that what you're afraid of? The process is irreversible, gentlemen ruling! The contradictions within your ruling majority are deepening. This leads to political instability within it, but it also spreads in the governance of the entire country. It is clear that your management is built only on deals, on business, and now with the reduction of public procurement and their suspension, with the ever more difficult absorption of EU funds, its vital moisture will increasingly decrease. The end of this anti-national rule is close. [[Voices "Eee!" by GERB.]] We are on the move because for us the most important thing is the trust of the people it stands much higher than the power you are clinging to right now. We will not allow this carefree governance to continue, which is a foreign agenda of society. It is high time to reverse negative trends and live a decent life in a just state. This is our faith in tomorrow! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u166	Vanceremos!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u168	Procedure
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u169	Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u170	Mr. Chairman! I do not think that it is beyond your authority to make a comment to the speaker when he allows himself to make threats to the House! I understand very well that some recent actions of the Bulgarian Socialist Party here and outside...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u171	Can it be directed at me specifically?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u172	He's with you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u173	What threat did the speaker Zafirov pose?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u174	But their fear, their anxiety overwhelms them by their own lies must not pass into...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u175	Let's not discuss his mental state of fear, anxiety!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u176	...threats to the House and to the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u177	Tell me specifically what kind of threat he's making!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u178	I am telling you: fear must not escalate and pass into threats to the House and to the Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u179	What word did he make a threat to the court?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u180	Emotional instability could not be a bet for MPs to be abused. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u181	There were similar addresses in the declaration of the Political Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u182	I ask you very much to observe colleagues when they fail to contain their emotions...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u183	Mr. Georgiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u184	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u185	Mr. Georgiev, let me get this straight...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u186	...born by their own inability to sanction and not let them...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u187	I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u188	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u189	Bullshit! Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[The speaker continues to speak on off microphones. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u190	You have no say because you abuse the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and strongly objecting in the sign of equality that you put between the political declaration of GERB party and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u192	...and the pasquila.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u193	...Pacquila of the BSP colleagues. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u194	What's this?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u195	Mr. Chairman, I didn't afford...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u196	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u197	...on behalf of our political party, nor should I call my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria ugly, nor should I call them criminals, as he did. I believe it is not only your right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is your duty at the moment when colleagues abuse the rights granted to them during parliamentary control times to read in advance with supporting points at a headquarters declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group to be interrupted. Because we remember that one another was waving a finger here from the parliamentary tribune and screaming, "Does it hurt you?" Take a look at the colleagues from BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u198	To me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u199	Yes, pay attention to BSP colleagues not to overdo the rights granted to them under the Bulgarian Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but also with morality. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the time when you, on behalf of a parliamentary group, have read a declaration with the "demagozi" who are many representatives...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u201	"Demagog" is not offensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u202	...the left felt affected. [[GERB lines]] and they were trying to interrupt you themselves, but I didn't interrupt you because I thought your declaration was in the good way. So please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u203	The Demagog and the ugly ones are two different things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u204	...I have saved the Rules and I have not given any opportunity to enjoy them outside of the Rules of Procedure. First, the People's Representative, Mrs Tasheva, has declared a wish. Mrs. Tasheva, on what subject do you wish to take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u205	In the manner of conduct, most likely. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva consults outside the microphones with the chairman about the procedure personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u206	Put on the microphone what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u207	About the qualification that my question was provocative...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u208	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u209	To me! To me, Mrs. Tasheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u210	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u211	Yes, sir! [[Reply from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Yes, Mr. Chairman! I had no intention of provoking anything. General Radev is an American alumni.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u212	Tell me, what have I done to violate the Rules of Procedure during the debate and declaration? Take the matter to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u213	You violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing questions for ministers to be assessed as provocative. Every question is provocative here. Every question is provocative and must be. The American alumnus General Radev graduated with a characteristic of the "strategic leader." [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u214	Let's go to me, really in the manner of conduct. Because you're entering a debate that falls outside the scope of the possibilities you've taken the floor for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u215	I ask: whose strategy will it be in Bulgaria if it becomes Head of State? [[Reply from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u216	Mrs. Tasheva, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u217	Take her away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u218	I get it, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u219	Take her away. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u220	Please! Mr. Daniel Kirilov. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u221	Now that's a fourth line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u222	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise and lines. Replies from BSP LB.]] My question to you is this: the moment you heard the previous speaker comment on whether the question is admissible, he said to himself: [[Noise and lines.]] How did you react as chair of the meeting of this opposition with regard to your procedural powers and the powers of the Presidency regarding allowing parliamentary questions? What of this matter was unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u223	Dear Mr. Kirilov, as a respected legal officer and chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you are aware that parliamentary questions to ministers go through the relevant controls and it is considered that the matter is fully admissible and therefore it has been given an answer in the proper order. On behalf of the Patriot Front Group or procedure you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u224	Another one of those!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u225	In the manner of conduct, so are you. Julian Angelov "The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It's the way I want the procedure. I appeal to you with the following, it is not acceptable to allow even on behalf of a group in declarations to brag and praise presidential candidates, to justify themselves, to explain how moral they are, how honest they are, how they worked. Because we're in an election campaign right now, and it's not normal to mention their candidate, like the BSP, and I don't know if he's their...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u227	It's not theirs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u228	It is not moral to campaign on behalf of the stands and on all media to broadcast how wonderful their candidate is. Therefore, I really ask you, here we have had today from a declaration by a group, we have not mentioned our candidates in any way so that we do not campaign from the National Assembly. So I ask you to really take an attitude and when an election campaign is being made for a particular candidate to stop the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u229	Thank you, Mr. Angelov, for not mentioning candidates for presidents and you really respect not only the letter but also the spirit of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. But in this case there was a commentary on the Bulgarian officer leaving the Bulgarian army of his own accord. [[GERB lines]] , so the Rules have been respected and I ask you not to interpret the comments in expansive terms. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u230	Mr. Chairman, I take it in the manner of conduct, and I really take it in the manner of conduct, because it seems to me that you have little too much patience with the Bulgarian Socialist Party's admission...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u231	...left Bulgaria, left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u232	The Bulgarian Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u233	...left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u234	...and Coalition Left Bulgaria, if you insist so much, colleagues, in the unacceptable behavior of colleagues from GERB when reading our declaration. [[Georg Georgiev's reply.]] We've asked for silence several times, several times you've really taken an attitude...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u235	Please, Mr. Georgiev! Let us respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u236	Here, look! Colleagues are moving on! In my opinion, it is high time to take disciplinary measures already laid down in the Rules for continuing disorder of order in a parliamentary room by colleagues from GERB, and the same at this time, note. That's why I'm asking you so much. When you take the floor on how to conduct it here, you basically admitted four or five lines in the form of a way of holding it on one declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u237	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u238	If so many colleagues from GERB wanted to have this thing, Mr. President, they had the opportunity yesterday in the Rules of Procedure and in the amendments of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u239	Isn't that the way you run things?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u240	...so that all their changes were voted out, to include the possibility that the government could do as many lines as they wanted after a declaration of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u241	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u242	...to those who are in opposition. [[Georg Georgiev's lines.]] But they didn't do that thing. Therefore, I ask you very much when you take a procedure in the manner of conduct, the third sentence is clear whether it is in the manner of conduct or not you stop and take the floor of the one who deviates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u243	Thank you, I understand your point, but I believe that your line is untenable. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because I have fully respected the letter and the spirit of the law that I have already told you about. And you in the manner of conduct. [[Replications of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] I cannot refuse the right to take this procedure, but I note that I will interrupt you if you go beyond the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u244	I even urge you to interrupt me if I go outside the procedure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you to pay more attention when Members of the National Assembly speak from this tribune, because in terms of election campaign, I recall once again, my fellow Members, it is not right and it is not morally the campaign to be led by this tribune. Mr. Chairman, I sincerely hope, including the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Bulgarian National Radio were also excluded, as they are used only for the purposes of parliamentary control and not for election campaign. Also, Mr President, I hope to remind from now on the moral right of each of the MPs to respect the other MPs, the other ministers, to respect them, as well as the parliamentary groups. And if they have any remarks that they want to make in the form of attacks, to organize them in the hallway across a tribune to appear in front of the media and debate, and to do whatever PR shares they want, but there. In this Chamber, the Bulgarian people send us to hear their problems and I call on you, Mr. Chairman, to intervene very seriously, and when the Bulgarian citizens have questions that have asked us the MPs and want us to address the government, that is to say to the executive authority, you to allow it and any other kind of declarations not to be related, including if they have to be on these issues to keep in mind that the question being asked can be perceived as part of the agenda of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u245	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. [[Noise and lines.]] What's the procedure, sir? And you in the manner of conduct? Please, really, let it be in the way of holding me, without trying to circumvent the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u246	Do you think I'll try that? No! Dear Mr. President, the way you led the meeting to the series of procedures has been impeccable, and I would like to urge you to continue to conduct it the way you have led it. It is only reproachable that you have admitted a whole series of unfounded procedures, because there can be none on the parliamentary group's declaration. Obviously not your behavior, Mr. Chairman, but the uncomfortable, meaningful and justified ones in the declaration caused this pathetic cry. Do not do it, Mr. Chairman, and continue with the dignity you carry with you. Thank you. [[Noise and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u247	Thank you, I appreciate your appreciation very much. We continue with the parliamentary control on current issues Mr. Vladislav Goranov will answer. First to him will be asked by the people representative Rumen Gechev, and it is about a single shareholder company with a state participation in the capital. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u248	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable colleague Goranov! Order No 3 of 22 July 2015 of the Council of Ministers was established a single shareholder company with state participation in the capital. When presenting the draft to the Committee on Budget and Finance of the National Assembly, you Mr. Minister pointed out that the establishment of this institution and the selection of highly qualified managers will significantly improve the effectiveness of the absorption and management of the various financial instruments presented by the European Union. Among the main short and medium-term tasks of the Fund are: First, the management of assets intended for financial instruments of 777 million. Euro or almost a billion and a half leva. Second, the risk capital fund of 4 operational programmes, namely: Innovations and competitiveness, R & D, R & D, R & D, R & D & I and Environment. A third one announced a competition for intermediary banks to provide credit guarantees under three of the four operational programmes listed. In this regard, Mr. Goranov, please answer me: at what stage is the implementation of each of the three tasks of the fund, already more than a year after its creation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u249	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. For an answer, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear ladies and gentlemen MPs, Dear Mr. Gechev, Financial Instruments Manager in Bulgaria A mandatory prerequisite for the implementation of the Fund's activities is the entry into force of the Law on the Management of Funds from the ESI Funds at the end of December 2015 as a legislative framework for the implementation of the financial instruments under the operational programmes. Therefore, the company launched the management of the Fund Fund at the beginning of 2016. The months from the establishment by the end of 2015 were used to establish and strengthen the capacity of the Fund, agreements were concluded with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in cooperation with which key documents for the company were developed for internal rights and procedures, projects of financial agreements and investment strategies under the four operational programmes. Pursuant to Regulation 1303 of 2013 the implementation of the Fund of the Funds and the management of funds do not start automatically, but are carried out after signing a financial agreement with the managing authority of the programme concerned, the mandatory requirements which are the conditions for concluding agreements with the managing authorities and ensuring compliance with European legislation are met. These include the internal rules of the manual of the company's procedures, internal procedures and management and control systems. An audit was carried out by the Executive Agency from the European Union in the period February 2016 to ensure that the necessary appropriate management and control systems are in place in the Fund to ensure its ability to discharge the assigned responsibilities, so from May 2016 the Fund has full accreditation of the management and control systems. At the same time, in March this year, the negotiation process with the managing authorities of the four operational programmes was launched, within which the projects of financial agreements and investment strategies were refined and supplemented. The Annexes to the Financial Agreements, including business plans, the application of monitoring and reporting, and others, have also been developed. The mechanisms for implementing financial instruments under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" are presented to the relevant Monitoring Committees, which is a mandatory step before signing the financial agreements. The resources for financial instruments under the four operational programmes after the adoption of a decision of the European Commission for the approval of the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and of the Operational Programme "Initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises" and created by the transfer of resources from the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" will amount to 606 million. 291 thousand. 164 euros. The Fund has currently concluded two financial agreements for the management of the funds under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development' on 17 May 2016, amounting to 35 million. 802,000. EUR 906, and under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" on 1 August 2016, amounting to 235 million. Euros. Negotiations on the conclusion of financial agreements under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" for the management of financial instruments with a budget of 189 million. EUR is approximately at an advanced stage. Under the Operational Programme "Environment" a finalisation of the negotiations for the implementation of financial instruments in the Sector is envisaged. EUR, and the continuation of negotiations in a separate agreement of the Sector "Waters" worth just over 119 million. EUR, depending on the implementation of the ex ante sector conditions provided for in the operational programme and the Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union. A brief answer to the second question is intended to be implemented only under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and is reduced to 4 types of funds. Those funds will not carry out any activity related to the public offering of the securities, and therefore, in accordance with national law on their activities, no licensing will be required or required. In response to the third question, the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" developed detailed features of the microcredit financial instrument with risk-sharing and in mid-August 2016 started financial consultations with the participants in the financial sector. as a result, the consultations will seek to finalise the procurement documents for selection of financial intermediaries. With regard to the instruments, the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" is currently being carried out activities on the development of detailed features of the instruments to be finalised and proposed for market research, in the process of establishing a coordination mechanism for the implementation of financial instruments managed by the Fund, with those financed by the recycled resource under the initiative "Geremie" or by European Commission programmes, the management of which is entrusted to the European Investment Fund. In parallel to the preparation of procedures for the selection of financial intermediaries, additional cooperation with international financial institutions shall be analysed in order to facilitate the process of attracting private investment when presenting the maximum eased conditions for financial intermediaries and final recipients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u251	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gechev, come in for up to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Goranov, I will practically ask you two supplementary questions because I understand from your answer that on points two and three nothing has been done. That sounds a lot like your first-point answer to that. That's why I'm asking you: out of this 777 million. EUR, Mr Minister, in addition to moving folders here and there, how many million euros of them have been realized at the moment. s 27-28 October 2016? This is a very precise question: how many so far have been realized and not approved, passing from folder to folder, exactly how many million have been realised so far? Secondly, would you be committed now to a year and some time, and what is your assessment of the effectiveness of the management of this Fund? We have warned you that the team that you have chosen will lead us to where we have now been moving folders from one office to another. Answer once again: how many euros have reached the Bulgarian economy, exactly which programme, to the economy, not in the folders? Secondly, would you reconsider your assessment of the effectiveness of the Fund's management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u253	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. It seems to me that within a supplementary question to ask specific figures is quite difficult. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u254	I also said that in my initial response, and I will now repeat it: obviously your monitoring of the process is relatively superficial, as you do not take into account the change in the Programme, with which more than 100 million. EUR were separated from the operational programmes and moved towards management related to the new horizontal European programme "Initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises" 2014-2020. The resources of financial instruments that we propose to manage through national capacity, not to give away, so to say, again to European institutions and to remove any possibility in the territory of Bulgaria to build capacity for its management, by the way, in the next programming period, the probability that the amount of financial instruments will grow and be much more than Grants is particularly real and is discussed in the European Commission and in the European Parliament, your thesis would in practice mean that we should leave the country depending on the will of the European financial institutions and without the existence of any local capacity to manage the instruments of financial engineering. I started with the fact that the activities of the Fund entered in the Trade Register at the end of 2015 started at the beginning of 2016 and there are already two financial agreements signed with the managing authorities to implement projects related to financial engineering management. It should be borne in mind that this resource is not grant, it is intended to manage instruments and an element of financial engineering which are subsequently subject to recycling and again to management by the same instruments that we have created under the management of the Fund. It is easy to answer that, at the moment, there is no direct involvement of the resources under these funds, but I will in no case accept your argument that the proposed decision to create national capacity to manage the financial instruments under the operational programmes is not the right solution for Bulgaria. The alternative that I have often seen in your words is Bulgaria to build its own capacity, not to remain dependent on the European financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u255	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have two minutes to respond to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Minister Goranov, first of all, I sincerely want to thank you for answering truthfully and not trying to politicize and combine. To sum up: it is correct for me to note that, at the moment, outside of this 100 million. the euros you have drawn, obviously you have done correctly, as they will not invest any euros and by the end of the year, at the moment from this Fund of Funds let them hear the citizens That is, your decision from the middle of last year and something led to the freezing of a billion and a half leva, which had to reach the Bulgarian economy! We do not mind that you organize things so that these funds can be used most effectively, Mr. Minister, but the results are currently catastrophic.. not a single euro in the Bulgarian economy! This conversation ends here. Secondly, the assessment is obvious not yours, but ours, the Bulgarian society and the business, for the management of these funds. Mr. Minister, we've grouped 800 million. In order to better manage them, didn't the Fund have to put the most experienced Bulgarian bankers in the management of the Fund?! You hired people there who never dealt with bank operations. The whole fund manual, I don't know them personally, they move files from office to office. You say they're having conversations with world banks, but there's no result! Mr. Minister, my recommendation is: change the management of the Fund, set up people and let's sit down and see what we can do, so that these one and a half billion leva instead of standing in the accounts can reach the Bulgarian producers regardless of their political affiliation. The assessment of this Fund is weak! Suggest measures to make the money reach the Bulgarian economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u257	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. We move on to the next current issue to the Minister of Finance from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the negative consequences of the introduction of the euro as a national currency, without Europeanizing the income policy in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, however little you have become in this Chamber! Mr. Minister, after public statements by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria in favour of introducing the euro as a national currency, I suggest that you explain to the MPs the expected negative consequences of such an act. I would like to say that since the introduction of the euro in some European countries, domestic consumer prices have increased significantly since trading entities have brought them to the higher rounding value. The warnings of such prominent economists, such as Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman, in particular Joseph Stiglitz, who in his book. How the common currency threatens Europe's future is warning and pointing to extremely dangerous consequences for poor countries such as Bulgaria after the introduction of this currency. According to the father of the Currency Board in Bulgaria Prof. Steve Hanke interested circles in the European Union want our country to enter the Eurozone because of the 20 billion euros from the Currency Board, which he says we will have to hand over to Brussels against the new euro banknotes. Would you disprove or confirm that opinion? And at the end, the question to you: what are the intentions of your head of the ministry on the introduction of the euro? Are these intentions compatible with the social situation in Bulgaria? Shouldn't this step be preceded by the Europeanisation of incomes in the country, that is, before the introduction of the euro as a national currency, if ever introduced, the Europeanisation of incomes at all levels from pensions to salaries, be done with a government decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u259	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u260	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Enchev! Since the signing of the Treaty on Accession to the European Union, the Bulgarian State has committed itself to joining the Eurozone. At present, our country has no official target date for the introduction of the euro. However, in recent years we have covered all the numerical criteria for membership in the Eurozone, which has been found by the European Commission and the European Central Bank in their convergence reports from 2014 to 2016. In addition to these efforts, we started our practical preparation for the adoption of the euro with the establishment of a Coordination Council for Bulgaria's preparation for membership in the Eurozone. One of the main tasks of the Council is the development of a Plan for the introduction of the euro, which includes exploring the effects, benefits, costs and risks of the adoption of the single currency. As a first step, we should join the Currency Mechanism 2, the so-called ERM 2. There are no preconditions for entering the Eurozone waiting room, but the candidate must meet the requirements for the countries of the Eurozone for economic development and stability. For this reason, our efforts are aimed at implementing major structural reforms that will contribute to achieving greater convergence of our country for its future effective membership in the Eurozone. I would like to stress that the entry into ERM II is the result of a political decision, which must be taken by the Bulgarian authorities and our European partners. At present, such a decision has not yet been taken by either party. With regard to the consequences of the introduction of the euro as a national currency. Undoubtedly, one of the main concerns is about possible price increases. The experience of the European Union member states that joined the Eurozone last shows that the expected price rise is not really realized. According to data from the European Central Bank and Eurostat in the first year of the membership of these countries in the Eurozone, the inflation of consumer prices is minimally above the usual rate, in the range of 0,2.3 percentage points. After the first year, these countries reported wage growth, which is attributed to increased optimism and confidence in the economy. The state benefits from removing currency risk and also from lower funding prices of both the private and the public sector. The adoption of a country in the Eurozone is accompanied by a strengthening of financial stability thanks to the implementation of stricter rules for public finances and the financial sector. The Member States of the Eurozone, in recent years, have united around a serious package of reforms, have created new supranational institutions to ensure that monitoring the financial stability of each country will be tighter than ever. Our future membership in the Eurozone will also mean participation in the common mechanisms, as is the single banking supervisory mechanism. This participation will mostly have a positive impact and will further strengthen confidence in the stability of our financial system. Eurozone membership also means participation in security mechanisms that made it a more reliable currency zone than it was a few years ago. Of course, no insurance is free. Each Member State of the Eurozone pays contributions to the European Stabilisation Mechanism, which are the function of its gross domestic product and population, and for members with gross domestic product less than 75 percent of the EU average this share is lower and only after 12 years it reaches its full value. This means that the contributions that Bulgaria will possibly be obliged to make will be proportionate to the incomes in the country and the opportunities of public finances. The adoption of the single currency will remove BNB's obligation to maintain high levels of foreign exchange reserves with which it currently guarantees the stability of the currency board. This will allow for more active use of this significant amount of financial resource, whose use and management, I stress, remains fully within the powers of the Bulgarian authorities. In conclusion, according to the initial analyses of the Ministry of Finance, the positive effects of the introduction of the euro in our country exceed the expected costs. Furthermore, I believe that Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone should be seen as a continuation of the currency regime in force in the country, bearing in mind the general restrictions on national monetary policy and, at the same time, the advantages of membership in the common monetary union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u262	Mr. Minister, from just one point in your speech, I am pleased. Steve Hanke that after entering the Eurozone we will have to hand over 20 billion. euros from the currency board against the new euro banknotes. As for the rest of your position, I would like to tell you that the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland have also signed such contracts, but the presidents and prime ministers of these three states have declared that entry into the Eurozone is not in their plans at least at this stage. As for Sweden and Denmark, which have long been eligible for membership in the Eurozone, they refuse to join for political and economic reasons. Adding that a referendum is being prepared in Finland to exit the Eurozone, your arguments for our commitments made after the signing of the EU membership treaty are not particularly convincing. Here again I will quote Nobel's Nobel Prize in Economics Paul Krugman, according to whom the Eurozone is earthquake and without perspective. After leaving Britain, which, of course, was not in the Eurozone, the opinion is common that the problems with the euro not only do not decrease, but increase. Furthermore, I would like to make a very important point that, after the introduction of the euro into the European Union as a common currency, the economic growth of all the Member States of the European Union has decreased, of course, in some more, in others less. As for rising consumer prices, I would also enter with a dialogue with you. Experience in the countries where the euro is introduced shows that the initial effect is about a 15% increase in prices. In this regard, I have personal observations, particularly in two countries - Austria and Italy - when I was on diplomatic work in neighbouring countries - and I saw the citizens' reaction, especially in Vienna, after the introduction of the euro. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since in Bulgaria, when we talk about Bulgaria, there is visible information about the market, this increase in prices after the introduction of the euro will be much higher than in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u263	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Hole, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u264	Quite briefly and without ideologists. I am convinced pro-European and believe that the single currency is part of the foundation of a single Europe. The faster it spreads to the Member States, the stronger the Union will become. If there are certain economists who are claiming the stability of the euro and its role in the stability of Europe, they are not usually economists from the continent of Europe, and I am not sure how selfless their opinions are in this regard. The existing monetary council, bound by a fixed rate of the Bulgarian lev against the euro, prejudges the natural advantages and the natural transition from the use of the Bulgarian lev as a national currency to the use of the euro at a pre-clear and fixed legal exchange rate. I conclude by saying that the majority of economists not only in Bulgaria but also in the European Union believe that the euro is a foundation of consolidation of the European Union and a major uniting centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u265	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Assembly representative Willy Lilkov on the proceeds of the National Pension Fund for the settlement of the rights of citizens with multiannual housing and savings deposits. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Goranov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the so-called interest-fishers who have been waiting for compensation for many years. This is what we're talking about. Dear Minister, I ask you a question regarding the implementation of the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Savings Deposits. In accordance with art. 6 of the Law on the Settlement of Rights of Citizens from 2008 until the property under the Fund is exhausted, the amount of which is determined by the State Budget Act for the year in question. In addition, donations and assistance from Bulgarian and foreign persons as well as 50 percent of the proceeds from the sale of residential and fork properties taken in favour of the state with an entry into force. My question is as follows: what is the amount of funds received from 2008 until now in the National Housing Fund, as revenue from: first, donations and aid from Bulgarian and foreign individuals and, second, from the sale of residential and fork properties taken away in favour of the state by a judicial act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u267	Thank you. For an answer, Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u268	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Citizens with Multiannual Housing Deposits is in force, as we know, since 1991. With the provisions of art. 6, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 provides for the possibility for the property of the Fund to be collected from donations and aids from Bulgarian and foreign persons, as well as 15 percent of the proceeds from sales of residential and fork properties taken away in favour of the state by legal act. Not just the period you're asking about, but the statistics we've been observing so far, none of these have ever come into the Fund. The only source of income for the Fund is the subsidy from the state budget, the amount of which is determined by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year in question. In recent years, the subsidy amount is as follows: for 2014 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 130 thousand; 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the 145,000. lv. It is similar for 2016 by making a commitment to make additional savings in the budget costs of the Ministry of Finance to increase this amount by the end of the year. If the implementation of the budget allows, we can add an additional amount to this by the end of the year. The existing liabilities, according to the latest data available to me, amount to about 74 million in total, such as rights. According to the assurances of the Head of the Fund, they could be covered by the end of the period in which citizens have the right to benefit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u269	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Willy Lilkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is a little bit to say that I am surprised because, in the end, the state budget has received sums of the sale of residential properties that have been taken away by a judicial act. Why didn't some of that money get into the Fund? The answer that no lev has received is a gross violation, in that case, of the Law. Or it means that there are no convicts in Bulgaria and they have not been illegally acquired properties. That's very embarrassing. But there's something else. The paces by which the obligations or compensations of these citizens are paid are extremely low. About a year and a half ago, Mr. Minister, you told me the same thing when funds are available, we will increase funds in the Fund from 12 or 14 million to a larger amount. At the moment, these liabilities of 75 million, which the Fund has towards people who have already purchased housing and have recognised rights, mean that at this rate at least another 4-5 years will take us to compensate these people. One more thing that disturbs me, Mr. Minister. November this year ends the period within which citizens can declare their rights under this Law. That is why I have tabled a bill, and I would like your cooperation, to extend this period, on the one hand, and to increase sharply the funds we are putting into the state budget to compensate these people. Last one. The fact that for years the state has not complied with a legal requirement to fill the Fund and from funds from the sale of illegally acquired property means that we are in grave debt to these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u271	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u272	Dear Mr. Lilkov, perhaps your amazement has some grounds, but I would like to point out to you that I do not know that illegally acquired property is being placed on public sale and made money. Much of the real estate acquired on this line remained owned by the State and it continues to dispose of it, including its central and local authorities. Otherwise, I support you in the fact that we need to look for an opportunity to catch up, as by 2019 there are only three budget years left in which, with the current pace, all rights will not be met. I am skeptical because this is a problem and a topic that dates back to when Bulgaria was not a democratic country. Sooner or later, we have to break up with this time in the fairest possible way. I am not convinced that the extension of the deadline is such an approach. I can assure you that by the end of the year, we will make efforts to make up for the pace of payment. I've already had conversations in this direction with the Fund's manager. We have commented on its technical possibility when providing an additional resource by the end of the year to carry out significant processing of files and payments. In that sense, we're on the same page here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u273	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the next actual question. He is once again one of the MPs Vili Lilkov and Petar Slavov concerning a failure in the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for spending the funds to finance approved projects of non-profit legal entities for activities for socially responsible behavior art. 10a of the Gambling Act. To develop the question has the popular representative Mr. Willy Lilkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question concerns the following: according to art. 10a of the Gambling Act, the gaming organizers are obliged to spend annually on the so-called "socially responsible behavior" which funds enter into the budget of the State Gambling Commission. Some of them are envisaged and spent on projects of non-profit legal entities to carry out public utility activities and the activities that are provided are as follows: protecting young people from gambling, prevention and treatment of gambling addiction and carrying out socially responsible advertising and marketing. A special regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers and made on a proposal by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Sport and the Minister of Finance shall lay down the rules by which these funds are allocated. They are between two and a half million BGN or three million BGN annually, as far as I know, but very surprisingly, the rules of this regulation lack such rules to justify sports clubs and sports organizations to apply for their activities and their organized events to fight against the negative consequences of gambling. And since sport is perhaps the most serious means of prevention of addiction, my question is this: will you submit proposals in 2016 to change the Ordinance under art. 10a, such that sports are included among the activities to prevent young people from gambling, to prevent and treat gambling addiction and to conduct socially responsible advertising and marketing? I would like to say that the Minister of Sports of such a question answered positively. He's engaged. I'd like to hear your opinion as well. In this way, we will enable sports organisations to apply and receive funding under this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u275	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u276	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! I share some of your concerns and, in this sense, the analysis in the last two years of the way in which the fundraising mechanism and their spending on the prevention of gambling works has certain weaknesses. In this sense, very briefly, without reading all the detailed answers that colleagues have drawn up, I would like to assure you that with the annual State Budget Act for 2017, in view of the weaknesses observed in the work of the mechanism so far, we will propose a change of the Gambling Act and the Sports Act. All these funds, which act as commissions, will be provided under the budget of the Ministry of Sport for the organization of youth activities and financing of sports activities, thus, in our opinion, the spirit of the Gambling Act... to allocate funds for prevention will be implemented through the instruments of youth and sports policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Lilkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. Bulgarian sports and sports organizations received about three million leva funding. Thanks again!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u279	Thank you, too. A hole? You won't use it. The last question to the Minister of Finance, provided for in today's parliamentary control, is again by the MPs Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov concerning violation of the ban on direct advertising of gambling and deepening of gambling behaviour among the population. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is again related to gambling and, more precisely, to the direct advertising of gambling, which drives to gambling addiction, which is actually a violation of the Gambling Act. What's this about? In recent years, the adverts of gambling, called games of luck, are in the most watched television time, and the lotteries they offer are among the big advertisers on public television. Advertising is total, which results, in my opinion, in negative terms. A national representative survey from March this year of the Institute of Social Research and Marketing showed that almost half of the Bulgarians are involved by chance or constantly in gambling, and notice the 44% of those who are playing are already playing constantly, participating in such gambling. Only 10% of them participate for fun. Something more disturbing. A sociological study among 225 students from Montana and Vidin shows that the risk of gambling addiction for adolescents is serious. Ten percent of young people between 16 and 19 each day buy coupons and 11% each week. The conclusion is that 11% of the students between the 8th and 12th grade are at high risk of deepening gambling behavior, 9% have already developed problematic gambling behaviour, while 48% of the parents of the students studied participate in some gambling and children accept this as normal. At the same time, in the Gambling Act...................................................................................... 10, para. 1, it is said that direct advertising of gambling is prohibited. What do you mean by direct advertising? I quote verbatim: Any information distributed in any form, by any means and, provided that it directly invites users to participate in gambling, including giving the impression that with their participation in the game users can solve personal or financial problems and will achieve financial well-being, or will receive large profits. My question is this: why does the Ministry of Finance and the Gambling Commission not respond to the obvious for everyone, I repeat, for all of us a drastic violation of the Gambling Act and the direct excitation of the Bulgarian population to gambling dependence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u281	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u282	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Lilkov, according to the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Gambling Act State supervision of gambling in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the State Gambling Commission. As part of this supervision, it is the obligation of the Commission to control the advertising of gambling to be carried out according to the requirements of the law and to comply with the prohibitions laid down in art. Ten of the same. In accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Gambling Act in the case of gambling advertising is allowed: announcement of the names of the games, registration of the trademark of the organizer, the results of the games and the winnings, withdrawals of the circulation. In carrying out its control functions, the Commission has initiated a national representative survey, which you quote in your question. Based on the analysis of the results of the study, checks have been carried out by the Gambling Commission and administrative-criminal liability of offenders is committed and 18 acts are drawn up to establish administrative violations. Criminal decrees have been issued on the decisions drawn up, imposing the penalty laid down in the law. The total amount of sanctions is about 50 thousand BGN. It should be noted that in the exercise of its powers, the Gambling Committee is currently carrying out a verification of compliance with the provision of art. 10 of the Law on Gambling of Television Media. With regard to your claim that gambling advertising is in the most watched television time, it is necessary to note the following. According to the provision of art. 10, para. 6 of the Gambling Act, as part of national ethical rules for advertising and commercial communication, special rules on gambling advertising are developed. Legal persons and sole traders who publish, broadcast or distribute advertising are required to publish on their website national ethical rules for advertising and commercial communication, including for gambling advertising. Legal persons and sole traders who publish, broadcast or distribute advertising shall comply with those rules. With regard to media service providers, the same are obliged to comply with the norms of the Ethics Code of Bulgarian Media, developed by the National Council for Journalistic Ethics and the national ethical rules for advertising and commercial communication developed by the Association of National Council for Self-Application on the grounds of art. 76, para. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television. Outside the direct competence of the Ministry of Finance, respectively the Gambling Commission is carrying out control and imposing sanctions for non-compliance with national ethical rules for advertising and commercial communication. In this sense, the State Gambling Commission does not have sufficient legal powers to monitor the exact television time when gambling advertising is broadcast, as well as the number of these broadcasts, and it is limited to assessing whether the eligible under art. 10, para. 2 of the Gambling Interpretations Act relating to gambling are observed or exceeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The People's Representative Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u284	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Dear Minister Goranov, without going into detail and analysis of what you have just set out, I can say the following. Things with regard to gambling and these lotteries acquire an epidemic character. You acknowledge that there are insufficient legal grounds for being able to be, so to speak, controlled and enforced within the framework of the law, both the gambling operators and the televisions that abuse it. It is obvious that not only the Gambling Commission but also other bodies are responsible for control. My appeal is as follows: propose the relevant legal changes with which we can actually put things in normal frames and provoke a meeting-Conversation with all the responsible factors for controlling this problem. This national survey is a cause for serious concern! The fact that over 10-11% of students between 16 and 18 have already developed gambling dependence is very worrying. So if necessary, drastic changes to the law or restrictions should be made here, for which I, and I believe that my colleagues in Parliament, too, will support you. My appeal is an hour sooner to react or things will get out of hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u285	Thank you, Professor Lilkov. A hole? You will not benefit from the right to dodge. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Have a good job, Mr. Secretary. We move on to current issues with Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy. First will ask his current question the people representative Borislav Milanov on Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness." Here you go, Mr. Milanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u286	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask you an additional question: there are other announced procedures in this year and what is coming under the Operational Programme over the next few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u287	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u288	Dear Mr. Milanov, a total of four project selection procedures were announced in this year under the Operational Programme, namely: lv.• Support for the development of innovations by start-up enterprises, where the total amount of the grant applied for amounts to nearly 279 million. lv.• Development of management capacity and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises with a total amount of 129 million of the grant applied for. lv. and procedure "Energy efficiency for small and medium-sized enterprises', under which the deadline for submitting project proposals is up to the end of today's working day. Over the next few months, two more procedures are to be announced directly to the business, namely: The development of clusters in Bulgaria and a budget of 20 million. EUR and the main objective of providing support for the creation and development of clusters as a factor for increasing the competitiveness of Bulgarian enterprises, with the maximum and minimum amount of aid being 100 thousand respectively. lv. And $2 million. BGN, and "Increasing the energy efficiency of large enterprises with a budget of 50 million. EUR and the main objective of reducing energy efficiency. The maximum and minimum aid amount is 500 thousand respectively. lv. and 2.5 million. lv. They are eligible under this measure: implementing measures that contribute to improving the energy efficiency of enterprises, including activities to re-use residual heat in industry, introducing and certification systems for energy management, carrying out construction and installation works, which reduce the energy efficiency of the existing building fund of enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on a government decision to refuse the state shares in the Plovdiv Fair. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u290	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 27 July this year the government transferred to the municipalities of Plovdiv and Varna the ownership of the shares held by the state in Plovdiv International Fair. The municipality of Plovdiv, as we know, receives 11 million and 600,000 shares, which are 20% of the capital of the International Fair, while the municipality of Varna is 16 million and 300,000 shares, i.e. 29% of the capital of the company. Minister, with this decision, the state is giving up 49% of its share at the International Fair. The remaining shares, I stress, are owned by the businessman and local leader of the BSP Georgi Gergov, who owns the majority stake through his company Poldin Tour Invests.The area in Varna, on which to build a largo with archaeological finds, and above them exhibition palaces of the Plovdiv Fair, is also owned by Mr. Gergov, as the investment estimated at 20 million. EUR, is expected to come from European programmes. My question to you, Minister, is this: what economic considerations did the government in which you are a minister give up its shares in the Plovdiv Fair and what is the state interest in these operations? And isn't that, Mr. Minister, draining the state budget that favours large businessmen holding high positions in parliamentary parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u291	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u292	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Enchev, the issue of the shareholder structure of Plovdiv International Fair is undoubtedly important and significant, but for me this issue would be even more up-to-date if it were asked in the period 2006. Then the Council of Ministers adopted a Strategy for Restructuring and Development of Plovdiv International Fair. The strategy envisions the inclusion in the company's capital as a minority shareholder of Poldin Tour Invests.A company which you mentioned, which has a predominantly municipal participation. The strategy explicitly provides that the state share of the International Fair Plovdiv is not to be less than 51%. Two capital increases of the company were subsequently realised first, in 2006, and second in 2007, and during these periods followed by the capital increases of Plovdiv Municipality, through which Plovdiv lost its majority stake in the company. The following is the buying-in of shares of restitutions, as a result of which the state loses its majority stake in the International Fair Plovdiv. In practice, in this period, a strategy is adopted that is not being implemented accurately. After all, a state-owned company becomes majority private, neither the State nor the municipality manage to protect their interests. There is also no effort to protect the state interest in the opposite direction, with the only experience being made by the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism, then Mr. Traykov, at the end of 2009, which leads to cases that win in one instance, but in the tri-instant production. Thus, we find ourselves in a situation where the state remains a minority shareholder of 49,63% of the capital of the International Fair Plovdiv. Since 2007, minority participation in the Fair has brought nothing to the state. The statute and the regime in place then do not allow the State to actively participate in the management, respectively, and to receive even a dividend. During this period a significant part of the company's assets are bet against credit and burdened with burdens. All these facts, along with the minority participation of the state and the inability to define a role in management, lower the possible price of the state participation in the International Fair Plovdiv. This fact, combined with the possibilities for development, is part of the economic considerations that you are asking about. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the current government is pursuing both a common and regional economic development policy. In this case, I will not quote the number of decisions of the Council of Ministers, which provide funds to municipalities or are given to them for management and disposal of private government property. In this case, the state allows to provide a certain number of shares from the International Fair Plovdiv and Varna respectively to the municipalities of Plovdiv and Varna. In conclusion: I strongly do not share your claim that the decision of the Council of Ministers and its implementation leads to draining of the budget, as the shares are not provided, I stress, to natural or private legal persons, but to the Bulgarian municipality. In this case, the objective is to provide opportunities for regional economic development and to attract investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u293	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You set yourself exactly within the three minutes scheduled for an answer. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u294	Mr. Minister, you are right. In 2006 this question should have been raised. Then I put this issue only in the media, but now I have this opportunity to place it in the legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why I ask: how is it that Mr. Georgi Gergov, a prominent businessman manages to find allies in every government and push unthinkable bridges between supposedly irreconcilable political opponents? In this case, the government of GERB gave an invaluable gift to a high position in BSP, holding a high post with Mr. Georgi Gergov, with one, in my opinion, a strange exchange of properties. The society continues to live with the feeling that the managements of GERB and BSP are in severe conflict, that is, instead of being sold through the exchange, as were the initial intentions, these 49% state shares, they were generously donated to two municipalities - Plovdiv and Varna, dominated, of course, by GERB party. However, the impressions, Mr. Minister, are that the two parties are doing an ideal business in which prominent businessman Georgi Gergov will get rid of an unnecessary and loss of property in Varnaou against which he will increase his share in the Plovdiv Fair. In this case you claim that Varna wins, but Varna is ruled by GERB party, of course. In this case, I would also like to say that the Plovdiv Boycott of the Municipal People's Council, thank God that this boycott of Plovdiv is there, so far minimizing the deal and it is not known how it will be realized, but it seems to me that the dance between the leadership of the main opposition party, figuratively speaking, and the ruling party is a fact for the whole country. Finally, two interesting facts: indeed, if the municipality of Varna takes a percentage in the so-called "Dupka" and builds it, this, Mr. Minister, will be in the distant future and at the price of more Bulgarian and European millions. For European millions, I think it's about 20 million. EUR, i.e. the only guaranteed interest in this case is Mr. Georgi Gergov. The second fact is that the municipality...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u295	Please, Mr. Enchev, bear in mind that it is a matter of legal persons, not physical, at least in the answer, so that you mention names several times, which I think is wrong and I allow myself to point out to you that the municipality of Varna, as well as all municipalities, are managed by a mayor and by municipal councils and not by a particular political party. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u296	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Enchev! My duplicate has become meaningless in relation to what you said, Mr. Chairman, as a lawyer who knows things well from their legal point of view, namely that nowhere, never in my question, nor in the legal peace, there is no decision of the Council of Ministers, with which, as Mr. Enchev between the ideologists managed to say, shares are being provided to the honourable Mr. Gergov. Nowhere in the decision of the Council of Ministers is quoted and there are neither shares of Mr. Gergov nor shares of the company he runs. From now on, any tracts on this issue should be directed either to the municipality of Varna, or, of course, to be released just like that in space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u297	Thank you for your coat, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Dimitar Shishkov, Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev, Kostadin Markov, Martin Dimitrov, Atanas Atanasov, Boris Stanimirov, Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev and Willi Lilkov regarding the transfer of the state share of the International Fair Plovdiv. The issue will develop the People's Representative Dimitar Shishkov. Here you go, Dr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u298	Thank you. Dear Minister, the matter is somewhat duplicated by the previous question, but I would still like to supplement what was asked in the previous question. In what principle is decided and why exactly are the shares decided to be transferred to the majority of the municipality of Varna and, for example, not to Vidin, Haskovo or somewhere else and to develop the municipalities somewhere else? What has the Plovdiv Fair been spreading out of Plovdiv as shares? Why?! My question is specific: why is the transfer of shares not entirely to the municipality of Plovdiv, whose territory it is, and the injustice that was once the one you talked about did not recover? This is the question of the Plovdiv people, of my constituents who want an answer and justice. They want this justice, which was in 2006, as we said, to be otherwise structured. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u299	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u300	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I will try to respond quite informally, beyond what we have prepared as an answer. Directly to the question: why Varna Municipality, why not Vidin Municipality or any other municipality? We need to keep this in mind. Outside the fair town located on the territory of Plovdiv Municipality, International Fair Plovdiv is owned by a number of assets on the territory of Varna Municipality. The opportunities of Plovdiv International Fair for further development of the exhibition business on the territory of Plovdiv Municipality are relatively smaller than the municipality of Varna. There is an initiative to create an exhibition hall on the territory of Varna Municipality, respectively exchange of exhibition stands, as well as presentations of specific events, coordination of joint initiatives with Plovdiv International Fair and Varna Municipality. The presence of an information centre or exhibition hall in the city of Varna provides an opportunity for the realization of the city's saturated program, as well as the implementation of the projects in connection with the title won by Varna. The Municipal Council of Varna will have the opportunity to work to develop an additional concept of cooperation with the International Fair Plovdiv. In conclusion, in a nutshell of your question, which is a consequence of the patriotism that I know well about the city of Plovdiv, and the interest that the municipality in Plovdiv has shown towards the minority share package, I would ask you: provided that the decision of the Municipal Council is not to accept this part of the shares, which is provided by a decision of the Council of Ministers, how do we conclude that the municipality of Plovdiv has in general any interest in participating in the International Fair Plovdiv and shares in the same fair? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u302	Thanks for the answer. I will not speak on behalf of the Municipal Council, of course, but I think they see this injustice that has started since 2006, and the idea of the Plovdiv Fair must be really reprogrammed. Yes, there is local patriotism and it is normal because the Plovdiv Fair worked very well and very well developed Plovdiv. Ever since he got into the hands he's in right now, he's not working properly, and it's a place for, let's say, a deal, nothing else. I appeal to you, as a minister, to return Plovdiv's fair to Plovdiv and to Plovdiv. Plovdiv will also become the capital of culture and it also needs funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u303	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Will you use the right to the back? No. We move on to the last question provided in today's parliamentary control. He is from the National Representative Georgi Gyokov on the activities of the Board of Directors of the Sofia Airport Stara Zagora. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u304	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, my concern, as you have expressed yourself in the previous answer to my question about the development of Stara Zagora Airport, and my interest in your inadequate management actions in exercising the rights of the state as sole owner continue. This makes me put a third parliamentary question in a row on this subject, and I assure you it will not be the last. Just to remind you of the situation with the management of Stara Zagora Airport which, believe me, is quite comical and is worthy of Guinness records because it is probably the only company with a Board of Directors of five people, with three employees of the state. Unique and unheard of indeed! Let me also remind you of your answer to my previous question, I will quote verbatim: "The filling of the board of directors' composition up to five people is not provoked by political or other objectives, but is related only to the potential of future development of the project. When it comes to conceptual development, it is normal to depend on the deployment of the management body and not on the deployment of staff numbers, respectively the state of the company. In this context, I inform you that members of the Board of Directors have experience in attracting investment in management, finance and financial control. The quality of the company's management is also confirmed by the good financial results for 2015, compared to last year 2014. And another quote from your reply: "Now the actual development of the airport is directed to the industrial zone and there is interest from foreign investors, including Chinese. It is logical that they will not meet with the people who sell tickets, the cleaners and the sweepers, but will meet with the management of the company, which needs to be in a heavier group. And now they follow the logical questions that are a continuation of the previous: How many, documented with the relevant protocols, meetings were held by the Board of Directors at the State Airport Stara Zagora. Secondly, how many investors have the Board of Directors held meetings with Bulgarian and foreign investors, including Chinese, at this state airport? What is the result of these meetings? What experience do they have in attracting investment, management, finance and financial control members of the Board of Directors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u305	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u306	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, for the detailed information already provided to you about Stara Zagora Airport in previous questions and questions, I give you detailed information regarding the experience, management of the company. Two lawyers are included in the Board of Directors of the company. One of them works in the field of finance and has held a position of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Currently he is a consultant on European projects, loans and risk management, investment and migration of business. The third member of the Council is an engineer, who is a manager in the Board of Directors, is responsible for management systems and has led a project under an operational program, which has spent nearly half a million levs. The fourth member of the Board has worked in a leading position at the Bulgarian Investment Agency during the Oresharski cabinet, which I have already informed you about in your previous question. Member of the Board of Directors is the executive director of the company, which is an engineer for the operation of air transport and a former pilot. It has led the company from May 2010 to the moment of which you are also duly informed. As regards the activities of the Board of Directors, it should be borne in mind that nine meetings have been held in the last seven months which have been reported. In similar order, the Board of Directors prepared a presentation and provided detailed information at the Ministry of Economy, which is used to promote investment opportunities at the former airport at all international forums, including all meetings of intergovernmental committees. A similar presentation of investment opportunities on the territory of Stara Zagora Airport was last held during the Bulgarian-Chinese Mixed Commission in the last week of September this year. At the end of September was held a meeting with a consortium of leading international companies, including US companies with experience in cargo and logistics projects, including the transportation of long-distance cargo. The Board of Directors at its meeting outlined a programme and adopted measures to attract investments as well as to expand the operation of the airport by taking action to cooperate with the regional governor. The organization of promotional meetings with companies for storage and logistics, with TIR carriers and their divisions, meetings with logistics associations and air carriers and their units is launched. The Board of Directors organizes contacts with the commercial and economic chambers of the countries with investment interest in Bulgaria and with the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Investment Agency in order to increase the intensity of the offer at Stara Zagora Airport as a logistics hub and appropriate location for investment. In addition to the actions taken to attract investment, the Board of Directors is working actively to increase revenue in the company. As a result, exhibitions of agrarian equipment are being organised and held twice a year on the territory of the airport. Cooperation was also achieved with the Bulgarian Automobile Federation for the implementation of joint events on the territory of the airport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a replica, the People's Representative Georgi Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I've been listening to your answer. I can't be happy with that answer, even though it's comprehensive, accurate. Mr. Minister, don't you understand that this five-man leadership situation with three employees, if it wasn't for the example of dreary and rude partying at state posts and offices, would be very funny. But it's not funny because it's funny. Relatively normal in my opinion, I do not know and according to whom no, three people Board of Directors: one professional director with salary, whose size is a direct reflection of the financial results; one member of one of your experts from the Ministry of Economy, with a remuneration of maximum minimum wage and one member of the expert from the state airport in force, for example from Sofia airport, with a remuneration of maximum minimum wage. This most appears to be the best financial results for 2015, which are only 25 thousand. lv. profit and I think are very far from good results. The other, Mr. Minister, is the use of state-owned companies, including Stara Zagora Airport, at which the Ministry of Economy and you are a principal, for party appointments and finding work for a larger number of party members. People and teams are appointed who have no expertise, have no skills to analyze and guide, but whose allegiance to the party that has appointed them is rewarded with excellent salaries for Bulgaria. Mr. Minister, let me be clear that until you take some adequate action on the management of Stara Zagora Airport, I will not leave you alone. This also applies to other companies in your ministry, of course. I haven't asked you about them yet, but I'm about to ask you. I seriously consider whether the prosecution should not refer to this carelessness, idleness and draining of the state company, because this is precisely the draining of this company. Provide peace and pay for three, four, five people. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I don't know what you're going to say to me in the back of my head, but you're going to have to wait for new questions on this subject until we sort this out and get things back to normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u309	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u310	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, many things have been put in your line, I will try to cover everyone. First of all, you return again, perhaps your line is to the previous question about the number, because the question you have now asked me, I think it was quite comprehensively answered in terms of experience, the number of meetings, the subject of meetings and meetings with investors. As far as the company is being drained and whether the prosecution should refer to it, as a lawyer I can tell you that the prosecution, in addition to having a hearing, may also refer to it, for which you can then, outside the meeting, provide you with an address to the prosecution, if you do not know it. Since it is not for the first time that you put the issue of guerrilla and party membership of the Board of Directors of Stara Zagora Airport and of something contained in your question about the qualification, I will answer you with a look back at the time when you, as an active member of BSP in Stara Zagora, also had an active intervention in the personnel policy of the Board of Directors. So I'm going to look back a little bit in time to see whose hands Stara Zagora Airport was in before the appointment of the current board of directors to talk about party appointments and specialty. For example, let's mention Mr Boycho Bivolarski, former leader of BSP in Stara Zagora, municipal councillor in BSP Stara Zagora and former candidate for mayor, who by education is a professor of livestock. I'm sure this has a lot to do with investment intentions. Another member of the board of directors during the previous management was Mrs. Vanya Stoeva. Against the background of this information, your questions about political appointments and doubts whether the current Board of Directors has sufficient experience in personal investment, in the management of finances and in the exercise of financial control, all these issues do not sound adequate and on-the-spot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-28.u311	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question in today's parliamentary control. I declare the next plenary session on 9 November, Wednesday, 2016 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
