ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, by letter No 654-00-52 of 24 March 2016 the People's Representative Ivan Stankov of the ABB Parliamentary Group informed me that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure withdrew the draft amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act by No 654 01-40 on 23 March 2015. On 24 March 2016, a General Draft of the Laws amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game adopted at the first vote on 17 March 2016 was received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly. The project is prepared by the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 24 March 2015 the National Assembly received a Report on the extent of implementation of the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Health for 2015. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. As you know, today's plenary day is entirely devoted to parliamentary control under the order of art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. New questions for the period 18 March 2016 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man - Asked by the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, about the policy of the government and actions related to the dropping of the cooperation and verification mechanism carried out by the European Commission. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 1 April 2016. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on two issues from the National Representative Antony Trenchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a request from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a request from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to five questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Valeri Simeonov, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, two questions from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov. - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Dobromir Prodanov. A group statement please, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! We, the MPs of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and we would like to express our outrage about the way in which once again the examination of the Law was postponed, providing access to people with hearing and speaking disabilities in Bulgaria to Emergency Number 112. Apparently, there will be no good news for them today. Fifth year, third parliament we ask, convince, urge, to put an end to the unbearable situation in which tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens live. Put yourself in their shoes for a moment! Think about what it feels like if a thief enters your apartment, a fire breaks out or your loved ones get sick, and you can't, you don't have a chance to call for help. Common sense cannot understand why you are so stubbornly opposed to changes in phone 112! You are the first to greet and celebrate the International Day of People with Disabilities, but when we have to do something specific for them, there is no one across the street who is totally insensitive! Why not make life easier for people who can hardly hear or speak? What bothers you so much that you don't even want to discuss it? Maybe there are technical obstacles?! Didn't we find out last year that the new cars are already equipped with special 112-based communication software? So cars can and people can't?! You may also be worried about yesterday's broadcast on TV, which has shown that practically the entire 112 system has been compromised. Is there no money again that you, for a minute in this room, loaded all of us with 16 billion, and now a hundred thousand seems a lot to you, or don't you want the Law because we brought it in from the opposition, and then you bring it in?! We will support you as long as we finally do something and the problem is solved. Clearly, this government, with all its correctives, is socially insensitive. You have not been touched by mothers, you have rejected our proposal for indexing, you have not hesitated to raise the retirement age, to take away the tax benefits of the poorest, to reach out to the social rights of the police, to limit access to health care, to bleed out free education and to bring out all sorts of words and occupations on the street. People with disabilities will not blow up vuvuzels, nor will they pitch tents on the Eagle Bridge. Their anger is quieter than that of taxi companies, which in a strange way are organized, but it would be a mistake to underestimate it. Every day these people overcome far worse challenges like nothing tomorrow to decide to overcome you too! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u3	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to do a procedure in the way of the organisation and the conduct of parliamentary control with two examples that show that parliamentary control should have a different name, not that. On 25 December last year, I tabled a question, to say it directly, to public procurement directly concerning Mr. Delyan Peevski's companies. It's March 25th. And today? 25 March, Madam President, you have put this issue in one of the last places, so only theoretically there is an opportunity for it to pass, given that the Prime Minister has already given a directive and you know that this tender, this contest has been cancelled. He asks: "What is the point of such a delay in the questions of the MPs who lose their actuality and become meaningless? Second example. Last week I asked Minister Meglena Kuneva a question about the change of summer time. This issue has been postponed for another week, provided that only 48 hours after the summer time comes into force. And he asks: What is the point, Mrs. Tsacheva, of putting this issue, since next week it will already be in force, and I suppose it will not again enter the programme of parliamentary control? I therefore draw attention to the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly, to you, Madam President, that parliamentary control, if it continues in this way, should be a parliamentary farce and not parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u5	Dear Mr. Enchev, the number of questions and questions addressed to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and cabinet members is many times more, as a necessary amount of time to answer, from the possibility in the prescribed hours every Friday from 11.00 to 14.00 for an answer. This is why, due to the huge number of accumulated questions and questions, we should devote fully today to parliamentary control. As far as your first specific objection is concerned, it is not within the authority of either the President or any of the members of the parliament's management who are selective in order to arrange matters. The questions shall be arranged for each parliamentary control, with a view to the time when they are asked, and shall be linked to the rotation in the members of the cabinet in ordering them to participate in the parliamentary control. On your second question, the specific objection to time. It is right for each member of the government to request a seven-day delay in answering the question. This is the specific example that you gave with a question about time, and as you can see, today's parliamentary control does not provide for Mrs Kuneva's participation because of her pre-supplied commitments and inability to be today to answer your question in particular and your question. Are we ready to start the actual control work? First today Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin will respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. He will answer Mr. Velizar Enchev's question about the government's discriminatory decision for an Easter supplement for only 60% of Bulgarian pensioners. You have the opportunity to develop your question, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u6	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! With a government decision of 1 million. $260,000. Bulgarian pensioners will receive 40 leva for Easter. For this purpose, the Council of Ministers has made an additional transfer of 50 million. lv. under the budget of the State Social Security. The additional amount to the pension will be paid to pensioners, to whom the pension or the sum of pensions, together with the supplements and compensations to them for April, amounts to up to BGN 300. The amount of poverty line this year. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, provided there are 2 million in Bulgaria. 200,000. pensioners, this means that an Easter supplement will receive only about 60% of Bulgarian pensioners. I believe that this approach is discriminatory towards the rest of the pensioners who worked and contributed their share to the pension system. Personally, I think, and many experts, that it would be socially fair to give an Easter supplement to all pensioners, but to be differentiated according to the size of the pension, that is, the smaller the pension, the greater the cash supplement. On this occasion, I would like to ask you the following question: since the Finance Minister has announced a serious overexecution of tax and customs revenue for January 2016, which is more than 500 million. lv. more than the month of January 2015, why does your government not increase the basis of pensions, which I think will be truly socially fair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u7	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, you ask a few questions that are different in your questioning, including mixing the allocation of the amount on a different principle on all pensioners and increasing the basis of the pension. I will start with the question you finally asked: why does this additional income not increase the basis of pensions? The basis of pensions means to recalculate all pension payments in the country on a new basis. This thing, by the way, was last done in 2008, taking into account the last average level of insurance. Such an exercise is extremely expensive. This is measured in billions and there is no way to do it right now. But if it were to be done with this amount, which was allocated to 50 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, this means that all pensioners would get a little less than BGN 2. monthly to pensions. Obviously, this exercise is pointless, will not help anyone and it is better to spend this resource differently. Your second hypothesis that these 50 million should be allocated to all pensioners. Yes, there have been such examples. By the way, the practice not only of this government, but also of previous government, is both to give money to people with the lowest incomes and this amount, which is separated, to be distributed to everyone. The government's opinion, which we have maintained since the beginning of his work and which has been regularly supported by Christmas and Easter supplements, is that this is a payment that is not related to the insurance income of the persons, but rather is related to their low incomes and low opportunities. It's a kind of social assistance to people who have the lowest pensions. The difference from classical social support is that their property is also assessed in the classic property, when a property test is carried out, and here only the pensions they receive are assessed. So for us it is more valuable for a person with a low pension to receive 40 BGN, life and health during Christmas holidays, too, than to receive 20 BGN. and the rest of 5 and 6 leva to be distributed to people with high pensions. That's why we're doing this. It's not discriminatory, it's helping people who have the lowest income. Why so much money? I'm done with that answer. The latest data on over-execution of the budget from the revenue of the National Insurance Institute shows 61 million. lv. - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Since the beginning of the year, we've been spending a little over 50 million. This is reasonable and does not jeopardise the financial stability of the budget. We see that the changes made by parliament last year in pension insurance are beginning to have an effect, it is beginning to become more self-sufficient, and this is the pensioners' money from the budget. I think this is how we should continue to take care of the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u10	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! You have stated that it is more valuable for a man with a low pension to receive 40 levs than nothing or very little. I think that all Bulgarian pensioners with low pensions are more valuable, even those with 301, 302, 310, 350 BGN. and so on to get a fair Christmas supplement, and, as I said in my question, a differentiated Christmas supplement the lower the pension, the higher the Christmas supplement, and the higher the minimum and even symbolic one than this discriminatory solution. In addition, the prime minister said there are 3 billion in the treasury. lv. more. Where's that money and why you're only giving away $50 million? lv. for the Bulgarian pensioners and only with pensions up to 300 BGN and not think about the others who have a pension of one, two and five BGN more? Moreover, we all know how much refugees in Bulgaria receive monthly, which is in times more than the lowest Bulgarian pensions. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Bulgarian pensioners are people with dignity and honor, people who have been making huge contributions to the treasury for 30 or 40 years. You, not exactly you, but the Prime Minister, he's rubbing us every month on how much the state pays out of the budget for their pensions, and at the same time with such a discriminatory decision, you're further humiliating them. On this occasion, I would like to ask you an additional question: where is the money from the contributions of the people who worked for 45 years and have pensions 150 BGN.? Where are the contributions of people who don't wait for a pension who died last year and how much is that money? Where did that $2 billion go? BGN, who were, to say it directly, assigned by Mr. Borisov's first government in the face of Finance Minister Simeon Djankov? And to this day, I don't know that $2 billion. lv. Where did the fiscal reserve go for pensions or something else? And besides, the most important question I want to ask you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, why the difference between minimum and maximum pension in Bulgaria is six times the minimum pension 157 BGN, maximum 910 BGN.? In the civilised countries with which we like to compare, in the countries of the so-called old Europe, this difference is exactly three times, which is yet another discrimination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear Mr. Kalfin, you have the right to the back. I remind you that there is no possibility of asking additional questions in the question and answer procedure, and the requesting Member of the National Assembly has the right to reply to your reply, and then to state your rejoinder of his reply. You don't have to answer any further questions. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u12	Thank you, Madam President. However, and although Mr. Enchev well knows the answers to the questions, I will say them one more time as many people are interested. A pension fund during socialism, Mr. Enchev, as you well know, wasn't. That's where the money went into the budget and was spent on the budget. Since there's a pension fund, we've been trying to keep him as independent as possible so people can know where their pension money is. Yes, many people have imported 40 years, but not into a separate fund, not in a separate account in which these funds have accumulated, but have imported into the general budget and received the pension from the state budget. This thing's been going on for years. That is why the reform we made last year in the pension system was precisely the money of the people at the National Insurance Institute to be more preserved. And as of this year, we see that it is changing in a positive proportion between subsidies from the budget and what it has as its own revenue in this fund. Regarding whether a ceiling should be placed 300 or 305, or 320 BGN, wherever a ceiling is placed, and so it is for all social payments, the one that is slightly above this ceiling is not included in it. Think of it as some solidarity of society to those who take the lowest income. That's why we do it this way. Three hundred leva is the line of poverty for 2016, which is increased, it is slightly higher than last year, the range of pensioners is slightly larger. So it's helping people with the lowest income. Again, this has nothing to do with the pension system and the accumulations. The latest data we have are near the end of February and are for overexecution in the NSI's revenue of 61 million. There's no way we can talk about billions. So what we have, we distribute, and we do it regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u13	Thank you for your participation in today's control, Mr. Kalfin. We are moving on to the answers of Minister Lukarski, Minister of Economy. By mutual agreement between the MPs asking questions and questions, the first to ask the question will be the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev on the results of a working visit to Hungary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to thank my colleagues for their understanding. Dear Minister, in the period 16 March 2016 a visit was made to Hungary by the Bulgarian delegation, led by you. During the visit a Bulgarian-Hungarian business forum in Budapest was opened, where, according to information from the media, many representatives of the Bulgarian and Hungarian business took part. In this regard, my question is: what are the objectives and the real results of the visit to Hungary and what are the opportunities to improve our cooperation with their country? Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to cut back on my duplicate time, because my answer is a little longer. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Delchev! At the beginning of the answer, I would like to thank you for this question. The Bulgarian side attaches essential importance to the activation of trade and economic relations with Hungary. This was the main purpose of the working visit to Budapest, which was held on 17 March at the invitation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary Mr. Peter Siharto. Within the framework of the working visit to Hungary was held, as you said, a Bulgarian-Hungarian business forum, where nearly 140 representatives of Bulgarian and Hungarian companies took part. The Business Forum was an excellent platform for discussing the opportunities for developing economic cooperation with Hungary, as well as marking specific initiatives that would contribute to strengthening our bilateral partnership. The forum was organized by the Hungarian National Commercial House and the Bulgarian Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises. During the forum presentations on opportunities for expansion investments and trade with Bulgaria made representatives of the Bulgarian Investment Agency, the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and the National Company Industrial Zones. Within the framework of the business forum was also discussed a draft Memorandum of Cooperation between the National Company "Industrial Zones" and the Association of Industrial, Scientific, Innovation and Technology Parks of Hungary. It was agreed to be signed soon after approval by the Council of Ministers. During the forum I had the opportunity to present the state and perspectives of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, priorities of economic policy and the advantages of the country as an investment destination and opportunities to promote exports and cooperation of export-oriented enterprises. The prospects for attracting Hungarian investments are linked to high-tech sectors such as machine building and electrical engineering, information technology, telecommunications, research and development, environmental protection technologies. There is also potential in the field of transport infrastructure and logistics, agriculture and food products, including biofood and healthcare. During my visit, I also held a meeting with Minister of National Economy Mihai Varga, with whom, along with an assessment of the potential of bilateral economic relations, we reached an agreement on exchange of experience and good practices in the implementation of the dual training system. The Hungarian country is ready to cooperate in this area. In Hungary there are 330 vocational schools that have passed under the coordination of the Hungarian Ministry of Economy. Every year, the Ministry and the Business Chamber set priorities and specialties for vocational training according to the needs of the business, which is subsidized by the state. 53,000 young people are currently being trained on the system. Given the good economic performance of Hungary and the potential for expanding cooperation between the two countries, we discussed the possibility to further reconcile the holding of a meeting of the two governments. An important role for the promotion of business contacts will have the opening of the direct airline Sofia. Budapest from 1 November this year, which was confirmed at the meeting. During our meeting with Minister Siyarto, we noted the excellent relations between the two countries, in particular an increase in trade, with Minister Siyarto pointing out that in 2015 a record in bilateral trade was achieved, which marked 14% growth and amounted to 1.3 billion. Euros. Here is the time to note that in order to promote trade relations with Bulgaria, Hungarian Eximbank has granted a low-interest credit line of 370 million. EUR to assist bilateral trade. Another important result of the visit is that Minister Siyarto and I signed an Economic Cooperation Agreement between Bulgaria and Hungary, setting up a mixed intergovernmental commission that will work to promote trade and increase investment in a number of areas of mutual interest. The establishment of the intergovernmental commission is an extremely important step in stimulating economic cooperation with Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u17	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Your line? You're giving up, Mr. Delchev. Asked by the MP Slavi Penchev Binev about privatization policy. Here you go, Mr. Binev. You have the floor to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will refrain from asking you questions for which you will thank me, but if you wish, you can thank me, as they are only as an opportunity for you to really correct the mistakes in your ministry. Mr. Minister, you have recently stated that shares of state-owned enterprises with significant investor interest will be privatized. However, what has been observed since the beginning of your term of office? We have zero activity, inactivity and negligence. Unfortunately, that doesn't surprise us anymore. What is the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control for when no privatisation activity has taken place for some time? The ambitious annual plans prepared by the Agency are not being implemented, state resources are being wasted on a non-functioning institution, which ultimately does not contribute to an increase in revenues in the treasury. I believe that an extremely ineffective policy is being pursued, and policy must be improved and the burden reduced by the sinking businesses which have long since become the arena of corruption. What are the measures identified by the Ministry of Economy to improve privatization activity in the Republic of Bulgaria? What has been achieved at the beginning of your mandate so far in terms of privatisation?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Lukarski, come in, you have the right to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! I am grateful for your concern for privatization policy because it is part of the common economic policy and should produce effects. In particular, in my capacity as a body exercising the rights of the state in the capital of some commercial companies, the policy that I follow is to be able to guarantee investment, creation and preservation of jobs, reindustrialization of the Bulgarian economy, respectively the generation of economic growth. However, it is essential to apply an individual approach taking into account the specific situation of commercial companies. As an example, I can give that the privatisation of companies from the military-industrial complex is not appropriate at the moment, such as VMZ and "Kintex" AD, which endure development, provide jobs, generate added value and support the general economic and social development. With regard to other companies not included by the National Assembly in the prohibition list, an extension approach should be applied to ensure growth of investments and economic development. Parts of companies which are essentially non-operative assets should be privatized in such a way as to provide a financial resource for development. In this context, in my capacity as Minister of Economy, I lobby for the development of a mechanism in which privatisation will be used as a reindustrialisation tool using part of the privatisation revenues for new investments in the economy. Dear Mr. Binev, regardless of our common views on privatization policy, I would like to point out that the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control is a secondary authorising officer of the Ministry of Economy. In accordance with art. 22, para. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act The Agency is an administration to the Council of Ministers for the implementation of privatisation and post-privatization control. It shall draw up annual work plans containing the priorities for its activities for the relevant period and shall be made public. The annual plans shall be submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Economy is not the only body that defines privatization policy. However, my team is working actively to secure a privatization resource and, in this context, I pay attention to the need and review of the so-called "prohibited list" as part of the companies included in it, the National Assembly may decide in the future to sell them. In addition, I note that the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control shall submit to the National Assembly the six-month and annual work reports of the Agency. Reports are available to MPs from all parliamentary groups. The Agency's final report for the period until 31 December 2015 is to be submitted. I assume you've familiarized yourself with the documents available at the National Assembly. They were submitted by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control in order to inform the MPs. I'll let you know anyway. During the management period of the current government from November 2014 to 31 December 2015, the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control worked on a resource of 30 companies with majority state participation and 18 separate units, 111 private state ownership properties and 25 properties.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For this period, the Agency has prepared and proposed 60 sites for sale. 42 public tenders were announced with apparent bidding for sale of 37 sites. Three centralised public auctions have been conducted, where the Agency has offered for sale majority packages and shares of the capital of 22 companies, privatization procedures have been carried out for a total of 10 sites, two transactions for bundles of shares of companies below 50% State participation and another 5 units of private state property sold, and 3 pieces of separate units. As regards the specific question concerning Privatization of BDZ "Cargo services', as you know, the same should rather be referred to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. This is one of the companies you mentioned weighing on the state. Nevertheless, I inform you that by a protocol of 15 December 2014 the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications authorised Holding BDZ Holding JSC to request its participation in BDZ "Cargo services" through its offer for sale by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. The privatisation procedure of this company was delayed due to the fact that the company is extremely difficult to privatize and with many unresolved problems. However, the Agency is prepared to launch a procedure for its sale as soon as possible, since the developments in the legal analysis, privatisation evaluation and information memorandum have already been presented. Regarding one of the other companies that you raise in your question, but you did not mention it here in the Chamber of Commerce, it should be borne in mind that numerous disputes concerning the company's properties should be resolved. In recent years, a number of properties have been removed from the company's capital, which were subsequently provided for the management of state institutions such as Fire, Law Enforcement and others. The capital of the company included a large part of the streets in the district of Ovcha kupel, which were also provided to Sofia Municipality. There are also a number of property disputes with regional administrations currently being resolved. In view of this, the company is to be declared for sale this year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In relation to the realization of properties, it should be noted that at the beginning of 2015 an increase in the investment interest towards them and expectations for the development of a serious number of sales of properties managed by the district managers to ensure investment in the economy is recorded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u21	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Two supplementary questions - Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lukarski, I would like you to mention a firm about a serious firm that has been sanctioned by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. No one is sanctioning offenders in Bulgaria, which is an extremely bad signal for those who want and wish to follow the rules. I'm trying in every way to give you a hint and make you look at this agency, which is definitely becoming a burden and does not perform its functions. But if this does not happen, in any case, because you have a good attitude and you obviously believe that everything is going according to honey and butter, I will really need to ask the real data to the media now who will publish them is another issue, as you have enough budget to clarify these issues from your point of view. But I am absolutely sure that there will also be those that will clearly reflect the differences between your answer and the truth. It is very important that your constituents, and that the people who support you in this post, know that one of the most important things is to look absolutely objectively at all the problems and not turn a blind eye to the problems that exist. The privatization agency and post-privatization control, unfortunately, is currently not performing any function. You know very well what happens in another country if someone fails to fulfil their privatisation commitments. There's never been a case like this here before. We have all kinds of deals. As you say, it works flexibly, and in Bulgaria, unfortunately, it means that no one will be punished.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u23	The two supplementary questions, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u24	I pay extremely serious attention to this issue, as I think it will be an occasion for a much further discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u25	Minister Lukarski, come in. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, I never heard two supplementary questions. You've transferred from privatization to post-privatization control. I'm asking you to make a difference though. If you are asked a written or oral question, I will give you an exact answer to which privatized companies have been sanctioned under post-privatization control. Otherwise, I agree with you. Perhaps your frequent absences from plenary are related to your frequent absences from the country and you have not understood that there is no ministry anymore and no governing body under European funds that has any resources for media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u27	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Attitude to the answer Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u28	Of course, I will always try to go beyond the written question that is asked and, of course, nevertheless, to cover the exact question that is still asked inside. Because if I warn you what I'm going to ask you, which will show if you really know your ministry, it is very likely that you will stick your nose on the list that your assistants wrote you and read us their answer and not your personal opinion on the matter. So many times, I have only wanted us to talk as people who really see problems and wonder how to solve them and not read the answers of their subordinates. This is perhaps the biggest problem and is valid not only for you, but also for other ministers. We need to do everything possible this Agency, which, at least in my opinion, does not perform the functions it needs to perform at the moment if it is not restructuring and you do not really see ways in which this will happen, I think this dispute will continue and people need to decide who is thinking more correctly on this issue. I believe that this Agency is not operating at all, there are no sanctioned companies at the moment. It is the centre of corruption, especially in your ministry, and you must take some measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u29	Ask by the MPs Stefan Georgiev Kenov and Chavdar Slavchev Peychev on the economic growth policy of the country in 2016. Mr. Kenov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! According to data from the European Statistical Office EUROSTATE, based on gross domestic product per capita, individual Bulgarian regions are located at the bottom of the ranking. If we take a closer look at the statistics, we will find that without Sofia, in the whole Bulgarian territory not 5 out of 6, and all 6 regions in the country are the poorest of 270 in the European Union. Another worrying phenomenon is that, following the disproportionate general trend in the European Union to reduce unemployment and increase gross domestic product, the Bulgarian economy is contrary to this trend for explosive growth of a positive trade balance, which in 2015 amounts to nearly 64 billion. Euros. The Bulgarian economy achieves 1 billion. EUR negative trade balance with third parties for 2015 The positive trade balance is a key indicator of the viability of an economy and its ability to create and realise an estimated value. The Ministry of Economy must work to build a competitive economy to ensure Bulgaria's growth and development to promote and accelerate investment, innovation and competitiveness. That is why we are addressing you with a question: what measures have been taken to turn our country into an attractive investment destination in the long term? What are the measures the Ministry of Economy will take to improve the investment climate? What are the export revenues of Bulgarian goods? And what goods do Bulgarian producers export to the external markets?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Here you are, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kenov, Mr. Peychev, one of the main priorities in the work of the Ministry of Economy is improving the investment image of Bulgaria, as well as creating prerequisites for the development of the country as a centre for intensive knowledge and high-tech industries and services. In the implementation of these objectives, an investment promotion policy is applied by providing administrative financial incentives under the Investment Promotion Act. In 2015, changes were developed and adopted in order to implement the incentive measures granted under that Law in the form of State aid schemes in accordance with the rules of the new European Parliament for block exemption. The main benefits for businesses from legislative changes are that they have allowed the continuation of effective implementation of incentive measures to establish the costs of insurance and health contributions, training staff and grants for priority projects in the industry. In addition, it should be noted that administrative requirements for investors were alleviated by the amendments adopted, the application procedure for issuing certificates under the Investment Promotion Act. In November 2015, by Decision of the Council of Ministers the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization 2014 - 2020 was finally adopted, which is the basis for the implementation of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The strategy sets out four main thematic development areas that will focus on the focus in the coming years, including mechatronics and clean technologies, information and communication technologies, biotechnology, nanotechnology, creative industries, pharmaceuticals and food industry. In order to integrate and promote investment activity and employment of the least developed regions of Bulgaria, which is related specifically to one of your questions, changes to the Corporate Income Tax Act were drawn up and approved in 2015. The measures have been implemented since the beginning of 2016, allowing for the transfer of corporate tax to investments, production activities and the creation of at least 10 jobs in municipalities with unemployment by 25% higher than the national average for a certain period of time. The measure is an extremely important incentive for undertakings which started the economic activity in these municipalities. In 2015, data on foreign investments and investments reported positive developments. According to preliminary data from BNB in the country for January, December 2015 foreign direct investments amount to 1.593 billion. EUR, accounting for an increase of 308 million. EUR 24 per cent, compared to the same period for 2014, when their amount was 1,285 billion. Euros. This is the highest reported amount of foreign direct investment since 2012. According to the latest data of the National Statistical Institute, investments, gross capital formation of fixed capital for the period January 2015 amounted to 18,3 billion. lv. 21,2% of gross domestic product, accounting for an increase of nearly 4% compared to last year. For January and December 2015, investments as costs for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets amounted to 18 billion. lv. according to preliminary data from the National Statistical Institute. According to data from the updated autumn macroeconomic forecast for 2015 of the Ministry of Finance, the expectations for 2016 are for direct national investment levels to be of the order of 3.2% of gross domestic product. Real growth of investments of 1,5% is envisaged. For a tangible increase in foreign direct investment in the country in 2015, the Ministry of Economy prepared an analysis of investors' problems. Together with the Ministry of Finance started work on establishing a mechanism for regular monitoring of the investment climate. The analysis was adopted by the Council of Ministers by Decision of August 2015, with the approval of key problem areas covering regulatory obstacles directly related to the investment process in Bulgaria. An interdepartmental working group has been established for each problem area, which will propose to the Council of Ministers this year measures to address the problems, improve the business environment and stimulate investment activity. With regard to the volume of Bulgarian exports and leading export goods, it should be noted that according to our foreign economic strategy, the Ministry of Economy is working hard towards promoting the export of traditional Bulgarian food and agricultural products, machine-building production, production of electrical engineering, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and chemical industry. Leading goods of Bulgarian exports in 2015 were oil oils and other oils, refined and unrefined copper and copper alloys in raw form, medicines, men's confection, wheat and a mixture of wheat and rye, electricity, various isolated electrical wires, ores of precious metals and their concentrates and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two additional questions, according to the Rules, by the MP Chavdar Peychev. Here you go, Mr. Peichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs! My first question is: Mr. Minister, tell us which branch of the Bulgarian producers have you provided an external market in the last three months, thanks to your efforts and efforts of the employees of the Ministry of Economy? What is this outside market? My second question is: what actions did you take and take at the moment to improve the competitiveness of Bulgarian production and business environment in Bulgaria? I'm going to throw you some pointing topics: - measures to limit the scale of the grey economy; - preparation of the necessary footage for the business, with the necessary qualifications; - reduce the price of gas that has the highest value in the European Union. Perhaps here the government can concentrate on accelerating the development of the production of gas in Bulgarian deposits; - reduction of the big administrative burden for the business - the e-government is introduced sluggishly and chaoticly; - reduction of bureaucratic procedures when applying to European funds. Here I would mark the high price of electricity. There are known to society aggravating factors such as US power plants, renewables, but there is another element, which is the share of electricity produced by NPP, Kozloduy, in the energy mix, which can increase and thus lower the price for all Bulgarian consumers. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u35	Mr. Peichev, thank you, too. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Peychev, Dear Mr. Kenov, to the first specific question I will answer you the industry to which we provided markets in 2015 and external ones is related to the export of food products, in particular dairy products of the food industry, as well as processing of rose and other oils, which I mentioned in my speech, and according to the data of the National Statistical Institute in 2015 the total exports of Bulgaria increased by 5.2%. The markets that you are talking about are traditional markets, but there are also such markets, I do not know if you participated in the delegation to China, where we signed several export agreements. Mr. Kenov was in Uzbekistan this year. Our focus, apart from traditional European Union markets, is also on third markets, especially the markets of Middle and Far Asia. With regard to the question concerned with the competitive environment. I absolutely agree with the things that you said about the development of new gas fields, not only for the price of gas, but also for the access to gas, because a large part of the Northwestern region of Bulgaria, for example, is not gasified and this returns many of the investors who had and have directed towards a Vidinski region where gasification is not reached. Dual training, lack of personnel is another major problem for which we already have an understanding by the Ministry of Education and Science in the face of Minister Kuneva. I hope that by the end of this year we will adopt a law relating to dual education, because this is one of the main problems that we have discussed and raised by the Ministry of Economy. It is a sick subject and it is not a coincidence that one of the previous issues related to our visit to Hungary was long and widely discussed with Hungarian colleagues. We have come to some conclusions that are related to the application of German, Austrian or Swiss examples is good, but what I personally liked about Hungary is the introduction of some Hungarian innovations with regard to the specifics relating to Hungarian reality, and I hope we can apply it to us to implement the dual system. With regard to the administrative burden. The Council of Ministers adopted several packages to ease the administrative burden. The fact is that the e-government reform has not yet happened, and I hope, as you have said, that this will happen as quickly as possible, because it is indeed one of the things that makes the business environment difficult and I agree with you in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u37	Mr. Secretary, thank you. According to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for attitude within a period of up to two minutes, the public representative Stefan Kenov. Mr. Kenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. As a liberal party, the Bulgarian Democratic Center has always placed as one of the most important sectors in the country economy. Perhaps many of the problems that we have in other sectors in social policy, in demographics, will be solved in a better economically standing state, with higher incomes and so on. You have our hopes, because, so to speak, in the big football team of the Council of Ministers, perhaps the Minister of Economy should play a playmaker throughout this process. You said that in relation to education, in relation to the e-government, we need some basic driving force. We see in the face of the Minister of Economy precisely this player who should provide the links between the individual units and not stand and write statistics on the bench. Moreover, as the leader of an authentic right, it is right-wing economic policies that are our goal just like you, and we would very much like to see if there is a more active state policy, more direct measures to support the start-up business in Bulgaria, the start-up business and the increased capacity of the already working enterprises. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. We are moving on to a question from MP Borislav Iglev on opportunities for economic cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Iran.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In January this year, much of the sanctions that the European Union, the United States and the UN had imposed on Iran for the country's nuclear programme were dropped. It is a good time to create economic relations with the state, whether they are joint investment projects, business forums or trade links. My question is as follows: what are the actions taken by the Bulgarian government and, in particular, the Ministry of Economy regarding the creation and expansion of economic cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Iglev, the lifting of restrictive measures against Iran has created conditions for the full use of the potential of our bilateral relations, especially in the field of mutual trade, for extending cooperation between the European Union and Iran and for opening the way for deepening dialogue with Iran on a number of other issues of common interest. In this regard, the 18th session of the Bulgarian-Iranian Intergovernmental Commission was successfully completed in Tehran during the 6th March. ambitious tasks have been put forward, which should be effectively implemented in the deepening of the trade and economic relations between Bulgaria and Iran. Specific issues and topics were discussed during the session, which will help to expand diversification, bilateral cooperation in the field of trade and economic relations, agriculture, transport, information technology, tourism, investment, culture, youth and sport. In addition to the Memorandum of Understanding in the 18th session of the Joint Commission for Economic and Scientific Cooperation, a Memorandum of Understanding between the Bulgarian Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Iranian Organization for Small Enterprises and Industrial Parks was initialized. The Bulgarian side expressed serious satisfaction with the sustained increase in bilateral trade in recent years. Among the sectors in which we see future potential for deepening trade cooperation with Iran are the pharmaceutical industry, food industry, car industry, in particular spare parts and auto-accessories, chemical industry and information technology. Parallel to the holding of the session was held an extremely important and useful business forum between leading companies from Bulgaria and Iran. In the work of the Bulgarian-Iranian Business Forum participated representatives from 66 Bulgarian companies representing the main sectors of the Bulgarian economy - machine building, chemical and pharmaceutical industry, Information and communication technologies sector, mining, banking and insurance, automotive parts and accessories for them, energy, trade, agricultural products, shipbuilding and ship repair, tourism and investment, construction and operation of solar parks and RES, tailoring industry, aviation industry and others. More than 130 companies participated on the Iranian side of the forum. Bulgaria sees the development of trade and economic relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran as an opportunity to distribute and impose Bulgarian goods on the markets of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan, and we are ready to assist in the entry of Iranian goods through us into the European Union market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u43	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. For a replica, the public representative Borislav Iglev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u44	Dear Minister Lukarski, thank you for your information. It certainly takes active work to make the most of the situation before it becomes clear that Iran has interests in the gas hub. This could turn Bulgaria into a gas distribution centre for Southeast Europe and the European Union. I hope you'll be negotiating for real investment. By real investors, I mean people who will invest, and companies who will open jobs in the regions suffering the most from unemployment and, of course, my electoral district, Haskovo. Thank you for your information and your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u45	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. There's no double, you're quitting. I thank Mr. Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. One question and six questions will be answered by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Asked by the National Representative Slavi Binev about the policy for dealing with the problems of the natural gas market in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Binev, order to develop it within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, the gas interconnection between Bulgaria and Greece is important for achieving a real diversification of natural gas supply sources. For this reason, I believe that maximum transparency should be ensured with regard to its implementation. There have recently been scandals about the implementation of other key projects, and I believe that such information is needed on the deadlines for the implementation of this project and the procedure for selecting contractors to avoid any problems or violations. What are the deadlines for the implementation of the project for the construction of an interconnection between Bulgaria and Greece? Can you explain the question of the project performers? Will a strategic international contractor with experience be sought, or will companies with vague ownership and history again win the contest, which will then be cancelled? What measures will the Ministry of Energy take to ensure maximum efficiency and transparency in the construction of the interconnector gas connection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Minister Petkova, come in. Answer to the question within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the question you are asking is very important and very relevant for the Bulgarian energy sector. This is one of the gas interconnections, which is of strategic importance for Bulgarian energy, and not only for Bulgaria. This is an interconnector whose construction is strategic for the entire region of Southeast Europe. In practice, it is the interconnector that will enable Bulgaria to connect with the Southern Gas Corridor and lead to a real diversification of the natural gas supply source. The Bulgarian Government, and the Ministry of Energy in particular, have a very active policy regarding the project being implemented within the deadlines we have set. According to its Statute, the company implementing the IGB project, a public limited company financing the design and construction of the IGB pipeline, owns the facility, distributes its capacity, concludes contracts for the transport of natural gas and receives the revenue from the transport of natural gas. The company is in itself a public procurement entity within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. With regard to your question, how will the builder be selected for this extremely important project, gives an answer precisely this company is a contracting entity within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act and the entire tender procedure will be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act with maximum publicity, transparency and the maximum effective spending of the resource that will be used to implement this interconnector. For the implementation of the IGB interconnector there is a grant of the Connecting Europe Facility, which amounts to 45 million. Euros. At the moment, talks are being held to provide additional funding for this project, so that the resource, which will be needed according to initial data in order to implement this connector, amounts to approximately 220 million. Euros. This will be a very serious project in itself. I guarantee you, it will be implemented, it will be implemented in compliance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, respectively, with the rules on public procurement within the Community. With regard to what deadlines the project should be implemented according to the roadmap and the final investment decision we made on 10 December 2015, and it is one of the most important documents giving a horizon allowing for the actual construction of the interconnector, we have foreseen by mid-October 2016 to start its construction, and by mid-2018 the project must be put into commercial exploitation. There is a very important process currently under way related to the realization of the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria, and this is precisely the implementation of the market test. By the end of March, the first phase in terms of the market test, which is related to the submission of non-binding offers by potential suppliers and traders that could book the capacity for the interconnector, and by the end of April, the second binding phase will be completed, already with the specific binding offers and quantities for reserved capacity. The interconnector is very important, we are working very seriously in this direction and I hope that we will meet all the deadlines and all the conditions that are laid down in the final investment decision and in the roadmap that we have presented to our partners in the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u49	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Mr. Binev, two supplementary questions - two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should have started with something else. Madam Minister, first of all, I want to thank you because you have shown that when you are told that there is a defect, you remove it very quickly. The fact is that one of the big investors to whom the payment was delayed after the notification that was made to you, you have decided this issue as a true statesman. I think that's very good. This is how we can encourage investors to continue doing something in Bulgaria. One of the big problems, at all, for the whole country as a whole, is this. So when I talk to you, I do it in the hope that all the details that we are setting out at the moment are not like a question-provocation, but are questions that we should have in mind together and see how to solve them. There is one of the major problems, as these are large infrastructure projects. They will be monitored by the European Commission. I have the assurance on this. There aren't many companies that can compete on this field. It is for this reason that they will be extremely careful, will discuss all cases and any such wiles that are valid in our territories, will be eliminated or sanctioned. I raise this issue also because it needs more transparency in its resolution. I would like to thank you once again for the quick intervention that you have shown, because it is not typical of our government. I think that's a very good signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u51	Thank you. In fact, you did not have two supplementary questions, which is why there will be no answer to both questions. Thank you, Mr. Binev. A question from the MP Vasil Milanov Antonov about the future of the Fifth and Sixth block of the NPP "Kozloduy" and the prospects for our nuclear energy, including the construction of new capacities. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Petkova, until 2008 of the Fifth and Sixth blocks of NPP "Kozloduy" has been upgraded by Western companies for 560 million. EUR, the aim of which is to work safely for the period from 16 years, i.e. to 2024. In 2012, only four years after completion of their modernisation activities, programs for complex examination of the actual state and residual resource of their structures, systems and components were launched. In 2014, the programmes, together with the measures referred to therein, were approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Agency and, as of 2014, the amount needed to extend the life of the Fifth and Sixth Blocks has doubled. At the end of January 2016 in the framework of the international Bulgarian-Russian Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation, a contract was signed relating to the extension of the period of operation of the Sixth Block. In your words, personally to you, the contract is related to one of the main priorities of the government in the sector....................................................................................... of the Fifth and Sixth blocks of the NPP....................................................................................................................................................... Over the past year several times, including the Prime Minister, an opinion was expressed in the direction of taking action on the construction of the Seventh and Eighth blocks of the NPP. In this regard, it is also my question. Everything that has been said so far gives the impression of a chaotic and inconsistent action by the government in the sector............................................................................................... My question specifically to you is: what is the future of the Fifth and Sixth blocks of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and Bulgaria's prospects for the development of nuclear energy, including the construction of new capacities? I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u53	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Minister Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, indeed your question is extremely current and very, very important for the Bulgarian energy sector. As you mentioned, as we have in our programme of the government in the field of energy, we have clearly identified the main priorities. One of our most important priorities is precisely the extension of the life of the Fifth and Sixth Block of the NPP. In fulfilling the legal requirements for the activities of the NPP "Kozloduy" concerning the continuation of the life of the Fifth and Sixth Blocks were read in two main stages. The first stage, this is the complex investigation and assessment of the residual resource of the equipment and facilities of the Fifth and Sixth NPP units of Kozloduy, which is currently completed. And the second stage of the programme for the preparation of the Fifth and Sixth Block of the NPP "Kozloduy" for the program for the extension of the life of the Fifth and Sixth Block. The Fifth Block Programme is under implementation and 242 implementation measures are provided for by the end of the license period. The implementation of all measures has started, 55 measures have already been implemented. A contract has been signed with a consortium in the composition: Roussatom service company Ltd, Concern.Rosenegroatom and Electrity le Frans............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The other measures shall be implemented by other organisations or by own resources. For Block Six, 228 measures are envisaged. On 28 January 2016, as you have noted, a contract was signed between the NPP and the Roussatom service and the Rizsk engineering for the development of a justification for the continuation of the duration of the operation of Unit Six of the NPP up to 60 years, including analysis, estimates and quantitative evaluation of the residual resource. The activities envisaged for 2015 under the project "Extending the duration of the operation of the Fifth and Sixth units of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" are implemented within the deadline. In 2015, the measures under Block Five were most actively implemented, taking into account the time limits set. During the planned annual renovation of the Sixth Block in October 2015, the planned measures of the project were implemented, the necessary reporting documentation was prepared and completed. The internal organisation established at the NPP....Kozloduy.. allows for the implementation of the measures under the Fifth and Sixth Block under strict control of the ongoing activities, taking into account the deadlines and financial resources set, timely update of the project management documents, which is why it is not allowed at present and, of course, in the future, overlaying of the measure and the existence of critical circumstances for the project. With regard to the question you have raised regarding the impression of a chaotic and inconsistent policy regarding the construction of new nuclear power capacities, I would like to say that the government is extremely consistent in its vision, in its policy regarding the construction of new power, nuclear power, and we have clearly indicated from the very beginning in our programme that we insist that Bulgaria retain its capacity as a nuclear state and will work in this direction, but any such project in order for it to be implemented must be economically viable and must be supported accordingly by the necessary economic base, not to require that the provision of state guarantees. This project must be built entirely on a market basis, so our policy on this issue is very consistent from the outset and it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Antonov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I must definitely say that I am partly satisfied with the answer, and it is with regard to the repair of the two energy blocks and the schedule that you have quoted. Of course, the time limit for compliance, performance and quality are one of the important control functions that you should perform as a minister. Definitely with regard to the new nuclear capacities, there was no specificity in the response. You have very generally quoted the new nuclear facilities related to market principles. You didn't mention anything about building new nuclear power plants for the nuclear power plant, and it is clear to us all that there is a ready-made, authorized site and at the same time a requested and executed power block that is in Rosatom. Please, when you answer this question further, do not put my patriotism in doubt as you have answered the previous questions. Answer specifically: why do we not put the implementation of the power plant at the nuclear power plant on the market? Moreover, one of the new blocks that you commented on for Kozloduy NPP, and recently also had comments about it, about unauthorized individuals, without the decision of the Council of Ministers, that there was information that there was hardly anyone offering them, including China, as it is on the Women's Market, in general, so they offered them. Finally, although I am running out of time, very recently in Der Tagesspiegel came up with information regarding the quality and operational maintenance of existing energy blocks. There were not commented in the best way the two remaining energy Blocs in "Kozloduy" who work, although previously the expert assessment, which was carried out by the MAE gave nine good practices to our energy blocs. Thank you. If you can, answer all the specific questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u57	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, since your question was mainly focused on the fact that the government has not been pursuing a consistent policy regarding the construction of new capacities in the nuclear energy sector, respectively, I dare say specifically in my reply, and I will confirm again that the government has been pursuing an extremely consistent policy from the very beginning in terms of the construction of new nuclear capacities in Bulgaria. As far as the additional question that you have put regarding the NPP project is concerned, you know what the current situation with regard to this Project is. At the present time, the arbitration is to be held on this subject, so I think it is good that we do not comment on this matter further until we see what the Arbitration decision is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u59	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev on the Ordinance on public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 and over 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital. Mr. Tanev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the Ordinance on public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies by 50 and over 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital. Dear Minister, as you know, with an amendment to the Energy Act, in force from 24 July 2015, the Minister of Energy had to issue a Ordinance on public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 and over 50 percent state or municipal participation. According to the Law, this had to happen within three months, i.e. until 24 October 2015. And at the time of asking my question in February, that is, almost six months since the Law entered into force, there was no such regulation. What we see on the Ministry's website is a published Draft of such a regulation, dated March 8th. This draft regulation is proposed and initiates the disclosure of costs and tries to introduce some control over them. My question is: do you think this Regulation, so done, is enough? I have infinite respect for you as a professional and a regulation of one list hardly exists, at least I have not seen in my 10-year civil service experience. With regard to disclosure, serious experience has been made with the Annex to this Ordinance, but with regard to the control, I believe that what is written in it is extremely insufficient, as the measures proposed are related only if, in the case of undue and ineffective costs, the principal adopts a reasoned decision to take measures. That is, we believe that everything in energy is fine and that we cannot set any reasonable limits and parameters from now on, which should be followed and controlled by you, which seems to me to be part of the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u61	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, your question regarding the Regulation regarding the disclosure and optimization of expenditure in the companies of state energy is very relevant. As you know, in order to get to this point, a change was made to the Energy Act, which was dictated precisely by the desire to control the cost process in companies where the State or the municipality owns more than 50% of the capital. The fact is that there is a delay in the issue of this Ordinance. As soon as the Law was passed, a working group was formed by my order, which had to analyse and establish all the companies, state or municipal, which could fall within the scope of this provision of the Energy Act. This had to be done a very large-scale survey in all municipalities and ministries to see how many companies this Ordinance actually refers to and where we could apply it. This has led to some slowdown in the working group's rate of work, but the Ordinance is a fact anyway. It was uploaded for public consultation, and it ended yesterday. Opinions were received with regard to the Ordinance. They will all be examined and reflected in this draft regulation. If you believe that there is a need for any specific additions, specific texts or specific form of this Ordinance in terms of and control, I and my colleagues are ready to discuss them. As regards the appropriateness of the costs of all these state-owned companies in the field of energy, I would just like to point out that there are, of course, other control mechanisms by which costs could be reduced or controlled. Let us not forget that in each ministry there are internal audit units that have such an opportunity by law to verify any of these state or municipal companies that fall within the scope of the respective ministry or municipality or the municipality or the ministry are principal there, so there are other forms. Rather, we could consider in this direction what coordination between the Ministry of Energy and the principals of the companies concerned and the internal audit units or the Court of Auditors, the Agency for State Financial Inspection. I agree that in this direction there is much to be desired in terms of control. My team and I are ready to discuss any proposal. That's what they did. We will, of course, reflect all these changes and I am available to discuss any option that you think is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u63	The line, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u64	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I see in you a desire to start, to make enough efforts to optimize and control expenditure in the sector. What I would like to add, and if you consider that it can be done, is what you promised, namely, a reduction of about 10 percent of the costs. Set this goal, describe it in the Ordinance. Give the task to each of the principals and let's see who has fulfilled, who has not, and hence, it seems to me that the results will be there when there is self-control about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u65	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u66	Dear Mr. Tanev, yes, as regards the reduction of costs by 10%, I made a commitment and it is fulfilled at the moment. The Bulgarian Energy Holding and the companies that fall within its scope have optimized all over the costs by 10%. For the period from August to December 2015, the cost reduction is close to 42 million. lv. within the framework of state energy. As regards other companies whose principal is the municipalities or other ministries respectively, some coordination could be considered with regard to the vision of the principals in relation to the costs incurred for companies implementing activities under the Energy Act, so I fully support and undertake to reflect such a form of control and commitment by all energy principals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova, that despite your prior commitment, you have respected the National Assembly and during the time you are able, you have given an answer to the Members of the National Assembly. The other Members who have questions asked to you will receive their answers in the next parliamentary control. We move on to the questions and answers addressed to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova. The first will develop their question Mr. Georgi Kuchukov and Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov, as Mr. Slavi Binev postpones his questions. Mr. Belemezov, we're listening to your question to Mrs. Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u68	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the regulation of medical and health tourism in Bulgaria. Medical and health tourism is one of the fastest growing spheres of tourism. Our country has a material base and exceptional natural resources for its development. In recent years, there has been a certain increase in the number of people using this type of tourist services as well as the interest of the hotel and restaurant business in improving the quality of service. In this regard, there are certain problems in the legal framework of this activity. In the current legal documents there is only a draft regulation on the terms and conditions for certification of the The project was proposed for discussion on the website of the Ministry of Tourism, but for one year there has been no movement on it. I am in a hurry to say, Madam Minister, that the question introduced by us was more than a month and a half ago. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: when will this sub-normal act be adopted and promulgated and is it consistent with Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare? I'm saying this in connection with and with art. Art. 114, Art. 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Dr. Kuchukov, Dear Mr. Belemezov! Regarding a parliamentary question concerning the regulation of medical and health tourism in Bulgaria, I inform you of the following. A major focus in the work of the Ministry of Tourism is the development of a legislative framework for the development of specialized forms of tourism. The first step in this direction and mainly in the direction of the development of health tourism is the adoption of a Regulation on the terms and conditions for certification of a balneomedical spa centre, spa center, wellness centre and thalassotherapy center. The legal basis for the drafting and adoption of the Ordinance is art. 138, para. 3 of the Tourism Act. The Ordinance introduces for the first time in our legislation uniform requirements, minimum mandatory requirements, which should meet the centres in which balneomedical medical spa, spa wellness or thalassotherapy services are provided. The main objective of the Regulation is to improve the quality of the service offered and the awareness of users of tourist services. The criteria introduced to meet the balneological, spa, wellness and thalassotherapy centers are intended to ensure safety and quality in treatment, rehabilitation, restoration or beauty. The adoption of the Regulation creates prerequisites for the development and successful promotion of healthy tourism and the opportunities that this product creates for the treatment and strengthening of health. The regulation was announced for public consultation in June 2015 and passed a long coordination procedure with the Ministry of Health. It was promulgated in No. 11 of the Official Journal of the European Union of 9 February 2016 (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union) As regards the transposition of Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare in national law, this has been done by amending the Health Act and is in force since 3 January 2014, introducing the requirements of the Directive. The procedures for exercising patients' rights in cross-border healthcare are laid down by Regulation No 5 of 21 March 2014 of the Minister for Health. This Regulation lays down the conditions and procedures for the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare in another Member State of the European Union. The ultimate objective of the Cross-border Health Directive is for all citizens of the European Union to have equal access to quality health services in accordance with their specific needs. The efforts of the Ministry of Tourism are aimed at making Bulgaria a leading destination in terms of one of the most promising types of tourism, and this will have a multiplier effect in economic and social terms, which will take place in the long term and will find a concrete manifestation in the creation of a favorable image of Bulgaria such as a balneo spa wellness destination with strong competitiveness and offering products with high consumer value on the global tourism market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I rather take the replica procedure to express my attitude, which is positive for your response. In fact, after the adoption of the Ordinance in question of 9 February this year, we have the opportunity to improve the effectiveness of this type of health tourism in Bulgaria extremely intensively. We from the parliamentary group of ABB are extremely closely monitoring the processes related to the tourism industry in Bulgaria. I wish sincere success in this direction, as we believe that all of these resources that our country has built for many years is extremely important to preserve and improve as a tradition, including at internal level, that we have the opportunity to improve our portfolio of services, which will bring us to an additional effective destination for cross-border visitors. I would like to express my attitude in talks that we have had with citizens of the Republic of Macedonia, they prefer Bulgaria as a tourist destination in view that including their 5-star hotels do not have spa centers. We have absolutely all the prerequisites to deploy this service with a serious scale. I hope that in 2016, as we had the opportunity to improve a number of tourism sectors in 2015, such as rural tourism, we will also have the opportunity to improve our activities in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Actually, your line was a positive attitude. I hope he doesn't have the back. Yeah. A question from MP Borislav Iglev on relief for Russian tourists. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Tourism is one of the important sectors in the Bulgarian economy and Bulgaria has always been attractive to Russian tourists. My question is: what specific measures are being taken to ease the visa regime for Russian tourists? What is the expected growth of Russian tourists in 2016? What measures will be taken to choose a holiday in our country?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u75	Thanks for the short question, Mr. Iglev. Minister Angelkova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iglev, regarding your specific question about Russian tourists, I assure you that the intensive and thorough dialogue that the Ministry of Tourism is conducting and which we support with the representatives of the Russian Federation is already giving its concrete results. According to the data at the airports Varna and Burgas to date, the increase in Russian charter flights planned for the upcoming summer tourist season is 83%, with a total growth of the requested charters from all destinations, I stress the planned charters of 30%. The information of the Association of Russian Tour Operators is for growth of 30% of the early bookings by Russian tourists to Bulgaria for the season 2016, with additional registration of dozens of new applications for accreditation for work on the market Bulgaria by local tour operators. As regards visas, as early as February 2015, it was agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ease the procedures for issuing visas to Russian citizens. The reliefs also apply to Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Georgia. Short-term two-fold or multiple-entry visas shall be issued in order to organise tourism with a period of validity of up to one year to the citizens who used Bulgarian visas in previous years. The owners of real estate are entitled to short-term double or multiple visas for a private visit with a period of validity of up to one year and those who have used Bulgarian visas within the last 12 months have a period of validity of three years. During the intergovernmental meeting of the two countries at the end of January 2016, a Protocol on Cooperation in the field of tourism was signed. The scope of visa facilitation for the citizens of the Russian Federation was extended as persons up to 16 years of age who come to children's organized tourism and festivals will receive free visas. As of 1 February 2016 a special number for Russian tourists has started operating at the Ministry of Tourism, which gives them up-to-date information about the opportunities for tourism in Bulgaria. With very strong interest passed the round table, which the Ministry of Tourism organized in Moscow only three weeks later on February 24th. More than 100 tourist companies and industry organizations, parliamentarians and representatives of local authorities discussed the possibility of an increase in tourist traffic. The activity of bilateral dialogue allows the unfolding of the entire potential of tourism relations between the two countries. In addition to being located at the most central location of one of the largest tourist exhibitions for the Russian market, Bulgaria will be presented at four major tourist forums next month in St Petersburg, Ekaterinburg, Kazan and Samara. In June this year, a tourist fair for Bulgaria will be organized in the center of Moscow. For five years in Bulgaria there has not been a visit by a Russian country with the rank of Mr. Oleg Safonov, Chairman of the Federal Tourism Agency. I am happy with the reciprocal gesture and the opportunity to represent our country as an active tourist destination in the Russian State Duma. Such an opportunity has not been received by a Bulgarian minister in the last 27 years. Finally, I would like to announce that we expect a very good positive summer season, and of course, to call all industry representatives for responsible behaviour and offering a quality tourist product.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u77	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister Angelkova! It's a good thing you have activity on the subject. It is important for hotel and restaurant industries to be reassured that Russian tourists will choose Bulgaria again this time. You remember last season's losses. We definitely need to think about visa relief and other preferences that will attract them back to us. Do you plan to hold a common meeting and can you guarantee a more successful summer season for hotels and restaurants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u79	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. It's a hole, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iglev! The data I just presented from the market Russia and not only from the market Russia. The growth of the planned charters at both airports of Varna and Burgas, which mainly serve our summer resorts, is 30% to date. The growth of the registrations in the major tour operators, with which the Ministry works as a main approach in the new marketing strategy of the Ministry from the end of June last year to the present date shows an increase in the bookings of 40% of the TUI, about 40 We have a very positive season ahead of us. I use the tribune to call again the industry, as we have always worked together, to pay particular attention to the quality of the product it offers; to avoid double bookings; to focus on qualified staff so that we can develop sustainable tourism and tourists who visit our country this year to continue visiting it, and to return to the following seasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. I thank Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. Dear colleagues, according to yesterday's parliamentary control announcement within 120 minutes, Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who is traveling to parliament, should respond. It has a total of 32 questions to answer, which will obviously not be answered in the framework of today's parliamentary control. Two of these issues have gone from oral to written question Mrs. Pavlova will answer within 120 minutes of 30 questions, one of which is a common answer to two questions and a common answer to three questions. The first question is from Mr. Manol Genov on the measures for rehabilitation of the Republican road III-667 in his part of Parvomay through Debar Here you are, Mr. Genov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about measures to rehabilitate the Republican road III-667 in its part of the town of Parvomay through Debar district. Dear Minister, this section is a third-class road from the Republican road network of the country, but its location makes it extremely important. At Parvomay he crossed the Republican road I-8, passed through four villages and at Asenovgrad joined the Republican road III-804. In its range, there are a number of settlements that rely on it. This is the road by which tourists from Northeastern Bulgaria reach famous monasteries in the municipality of Asenovgrad, Sveta Nedelya, Sveta Petka Moldovska and other tourist sites. In the last 10 years the road was extremely busy after the connection was closed through the village of Popovitsa by the end of last year. I thanked you for really rehabilitating this time, and now I'm using the moment again. People have rested from the holes and craters on it, but you have some things to finish. You promised me in the spring we'd cut the ribbon together. According to local mayors, only the part located on the territory of the municipality of Parvomay was renovated years ago. The rest of the territory of the municipality of Asenovgrad is maintained only by patching the asphalt. The road is included in the Regional Strategy in the part of Plovdiv district, but there are no real measures in its serious rehabilitation so far. Madam Minister, my question to you is: are and when is the overall quality rehabilitation of road III-667 in the part of Parvomay sq. Deep spring, Debar? Asenovgrad? Do you have an up-to-date assessment of its current state of affairs, the intensity of workload and the risks of road accidents? When will the connection be built from this road to the road hub of Orizovo, after travelers along this road artery are deprived of a road connection with the motorways of Maritsa and Trakia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Minister Pavlova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! As you rightly said, the condition of the third-rate Fruity "Primumai " Asenovgrad is unsatisfactory in all sections. The road was built more than 40 years ago and since then, apart from partial rehabilitation, we have no serious reconstruction of the road surface. The road appears to be loaded, with high traffic intensity, but without areas with high concentration of road accidents. It is precisely his unsatisfactory state that shows the need for complete rehabilitation if we want to solve the problem permanently and long-term. From the analyses and estimates we have to date, the value of such rehabilitation is over 15 million. lv. This is precisely why, in the years back, it is probably not planned, at least at this time I am talking about overall. What we are planning for this year is the continuation of the actions and efforts to maintain this road section within the framework of the current repair and maintenance programme by the Roads Agency, within the framework of the budget and the funds available to us. With regard to road connections and connections between highways "Trakia" and "Maritsa" the links are carried out in two ways: in the case of a road hub "Orizovo" and in the case of the connections that are built at present. For the time being, for the road hub itself, we do not foresee any further construction of new facilities, as this is technologically impossible. You know, at Orizovo we only have one overpass. In order for a more serious road connection to be made in all directions, a brand new large road node with a brand new bridge facility must be built, which would cost much more than the existing road connections that are currently built. Therefore, as compensation as well as ensuring the conduction of traffic both in the directions that come from the highway in the direction of Sofia, and respectively from Burgas for the connection with the highway of Maritsa. Our ambition was to make the road node of Fruity last year, but unfortunately, an appeal to the EIA decision or rather the decision that an environmental assessment was not necessary, which took a long time, did not allow us to build it until the appeal procedures were completed. This appeal ended in favour of the State. The procedure for selecting a contractor was also carried out. It is not over yet, but I hope that it will end very soon, with which it will be possible during the construction season, which begins now, to build fully and to complete the road hub, which will ensure the necessary road connections in all directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u85	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here you are, Mr. Genov, you are entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u86	Dear Minister, I am not deeply satisfied with your response, but even less satisfied are the residents who inhabit the settlements on this road. Yes, you of this high enough and, of course, responsible tribune promise to keep this road ongoing. I've witnessed what this maintenance is about. Three people with three shovels throw asphalt, clog holes. One rainplow, maybe lighter than me by weight, comes after them and tramples them. If that's what we call current road maintenance, God forbid they get white. You said the concentration was small, but this time there is no horizontal marking, we are talking, Asenovgrad. The mayors of settlements had gone out to protest. Me and the district manager and the traffic chief went out to reassure them that they were gonna be taken care of. Then these people showed up with the shovels. If these are measures of ongoing maintenance, excuse me! Take steps really, as long as we will keep it in a normal operating state, let them be adequate to its condition. So we really disappointed people living around this transport artery and enjoying it continuously, that in the near foreseeable future, nothing good is being done on the rehabilitation of this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Genov. A hole? You're giving up the right to the dot. The next question is from the MP Mihail Mikov, but I don't see him. We're gonna postpone his question a little bit. There are two general questions to be answered. The first is from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov on reform in the water sector and the second is from the MP Yanaki Stoilov on financial assistance for municipal water companies that will not be included in the water associations. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, to develop the first question, then Mr. Stoilov. The answer to both questions is common. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, it has indeed been talked for years about the reform of the water sector, but at present I would say that it has neither progressed very seriously nor ended. Unfortunately, we have another delay. So far, I'm going to be shorter here. I've prepared a more detailed exposé. All 28 water associations have already been established, but according to the information I have available, only 16 of them meet all requirements and there is only one with a separate water operator. It's in Smolyan. In a nutshell, the reorganization in such a way is also delayed as associations and as regards the transfer of ownership, management and operation of the systems and facilities in the separate territories. It is repeatedly stated that by mid-2016 all contracts between the water associations and the water operators in all 28 separate territories in the country are to be signed. Undoubtedly, the reform is quite complex in the sector, it is difficult, but if it is not completed by 2016, the European Commission has the right to stop the funding of projects under Operational Programme "Environment" for the 2014-2020 programming period. In one word, the Operational Programme is approved under condition and the finalisation of the reform in the water sector is one of the important conditions. We all know that there is a huge need for construction of water infrastructure, treatment plants not only in order to meet the criteria, but also in order to improve quality and standard of living, this is very important. In view of this, I would like to formulate a few questions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Very briefly, Madam President. When do you plan to end the consolidation of the water supply...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u89	It had to be in time, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u90	Yeah, I'm done. When do you plan to complete the water reform in the form and volume expected by the European Commission, so as to start the implementation with regard to the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u91	Next up is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's question. Because the two questions are on one subject and we are going in a procedure with a common answer. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u92	Madam President! Madam Minister, my question is how will the relations with municipal water companies be settled, which will not wish to join the associations, and what will be the commitments of the Bulgarian state to them? We know that procedures are currently being carried out to transfer the assets of municipal water companies for the formation of these water associations and the requirement is to have one water operator in the territory of each district. I ask the question because in Pazardzhishka region are most of the municipalities that have neither interest nor intention to participate in these associations, but the issue concerns several dozen municipalities and their companies throughout the country. Because if they enter these associations, then the cost of the water that citizens use will be reduced. They have still put funds in place to support the water network, and further the costs that are done, they won't be able to compensate. I want to know from you a few important things that concern them. First, will you follow the voluntary principle, according to the law, that the owner dispose and manage his property? In other words, is there not at some stage to resort to some administrative pressure or to seek legal changes to force these companies to join the associations? Secondly, whether you will not limit them to using some of the national financial instruments, as under the PUP or others, since it is clear that they will not use European funding. Finally, are you ready to consider other financial mechanisms to assist these companies so that they can develop their activities in their territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u93	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov, Mr. Stoilov! I will start a little bit more generally on the topic "Reform in the water sector" because I am convinced that all of us, representatives of the Bulgarian institutions, have an interest in uniting our efforts to complete this reform. A reform that has been spoken of for many years and which is in its final rights. To you, Mr. Chakarov, you, as former Minister of the Environment, know how important it is for Bulgaria to respond to all the conventions that the European Commission has put on us so that we do not compromise Bulgaria's ability to absorb funds from the European funds for investment in this important sector. I think that we should pool our efforts and broadcast positive messages, including to our European partners, so that it does not turn out that in the middle of the programming period, as the regulations provide, and the European Commission already has the opportunity to take Bulgaria's money, which has been given to it as a grant for investment in the water sector, and to redefine it for refugees, whether for other problems, whether for other sectors. This is something that we should not allow and something that we should, I hope, join forces on, because this is a non-party, this is a national priority. With regard to reform as such, I would say that it is already over, as under the Water Act adopted by the National Assembly, the reform is based on three pillars. The three pillars of the reform include: firstly, the water infrastructure to be public property and this is something that has already been carried out. As a process for completing the entire property to be public, municipal or state owned and represented in the State in the persons of the regional governors through the water associations which have already been established. The first step of reform is complete. The second step of the three pillars of the reform is the public owner, namely the State represented by the water associations managed by the district managers, to conclude contracts with the water associations. We also have the form of the contract that is signed, so this step also I believe is complete and executed. The third step of reform, under national law, is the existence of master-general plans to describe what infrastructure is and what investment needs are. Such master plans have been developed, have been validated and they are available. At national level, the steps, as set out in the Bulgarian law, are completed and the reform from this point of view can be accepted as complete. There is an important condition precisely because of European funding. This has already been accepted, albeit on a voluntary basis, in these 28 administrative areas to which the 28 water territories are aligned, to have a single operator chosen to operate public assets for the whole area. Here, too, I think we can make great progress, because from 265 municipalities across the country, in 242 municipalities we already have agreement and, in fact, with the exception of four districts in the country, in 24 districts we have already chosen and walked the way under the consolidation procedure and the procedure for choosing one operator. Twenty-four districts have also completed this stage of reform, which is extremely important. From now on, there are two challenges left. For those who have gone through the steps of the reform and are eligible for European funding in the new programming period, for them, according to the conditions of the European Commission, we must have developed pre-investment studies. For 14 of them we have already conducted a financing procedure under the Environment Programme, we have selected performers. Two of the contracts have been concluded, the other two are due next week, and the work on drawing up application form, studies, so that these 14 areas will have the necessary projects, for the rest of them the work continues, and I hope that in the coming months it will be over. There are only four areas left, and that was Mr. Stoilov's question, in which we are refusing to move on to the steps of the reform. These are Blagoevgrad districts there, unfortunately, we have a problem because the municipalities of Kresna, Petrich and Sandanski are the ones who do not agree to break into the reform. For this reason Blagoevgrad will not be able to apply, it will not be able to be a beneficiary for European funding under the Environment Programme. What we will do, however, is what Mr. Stoilov asked about the state budget funding under the PDOOS and under what the Ministry of Regional Development provided....we will primarily finance activities related to the water sector in these four areas in which the reform is not completed, but precisely those municipalities, first, who agree to participate in the reform and who suffer for Kresna's unwillingness, Petrich and Sandanski to participate in the reform. In the district of Kyustendil these are Dupnitsa and Sapareva Banya, in the district of Lovech this is Troyan and in Pazardzhik are the nine municipal water companies. I hope that they will be able to join in the framework of the reform. We will support the other municipalities that are suffering and do not want to participate in this corruption process. What you said about supporting small municipal water companies. Small municipal water companies are ineffective, they do not have enough resources, resources, either to provide a good service or to invest back in the network so that it can be developed so that it can provide a better service so that there can be no leaks and losses of water in the system. That's why she's not self-inflicted. The aim of this reform is the consolidation, economies of scale, less administration and more investment and infrastructure costs, better water infrastructure, better water supply. We are continuing the work with these settlements that I have defined, they are much less than the number of.. again I say: 242 municipalities are already involved and are part of the reform, and I am convinced that by the end of April we will conclude the contracts with all of them, which are part of the investment study [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and by the summer of this year the others will join us, so first we will work with those in the four areas that are still holding back this process so that we can support them as investments and by completing this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u95	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. - What's the line? First Mr. Chakarov's line, then Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u96	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Prime Minister, honourable Members! The answer I receive, Mrs. Pavlova, shows that it has been done very little, but in general, unfortunately the fact is that there is a delay in the reform and it needs to be finalised. In the context of what I said, this is one of the important conditions for the launch of the Operational Programme "Environment" in relation to the first axis, namely building infrastructure for the water sector, this is very important for us. At the end of my line, I will call on all of us to unite and be fully solidarity. It's more like our offer. As opposition, I would like to tell you and the whole public and the Prime Minister that this is discussed in our parliamentary group, in our political power. We are constructive and through the prism of our positive and negative experience we all need to make the necessary efforts and effectively implement the water reform so as to start construction in the water sector, even more so, given the negative experience from the previous programming period. I am not saying that this is negative, given that there is a need and a technique in the various aspects in which funds have been relocation, but an undisputed priority is the construction of the water infrastructure that we all need. Here, on the Black Sea coast were built treatment plants, the water infrastructure is used by all of us, improved quality and standard, has an indirect attitude towards the development of tourism. That's a necessary condition. I've asked Minister Ivelina Vassileva that question as well. I answered the question after the previous programming period... I have received positive assurance. I'd like to point out some pre-investment research. You pointed out that master plans are ready. Funds have been allocated and it has assured us that the information acquired with these pre-investment studies will be used so that time and effort will not be wasted again, and that the reform will be accelerated. Indeed, we need to combine efforts so that the water reform is finalized, there is a start to the realization of the water infrastructure. Moreover, if we 100% realize all these funds, we could build only 40% of the necessary water infrastructure. We all know that, and I also call for a more active dialogue with all of us, and even if there is a political consensus here [[the President signals that time has run out]] , with the European Commission, so that earlier and more timely we can begin the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u97	The line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u98	Madam President! Madam Minister, I'm going to try to summarize your response to help with further activities. I understand that administrative pressure will not be exercised on municipalities, and each of them will decide whether or not to join the water associations. With regard to the support, it is my opinion that opportunities should be created to not call it assistance, but assistance for the municipalities that have wished, or for those who have not wished and will not anyway create these water associations, because they must have eased access to financial resources after which to pay off and be able to improve the condition of the water network. Here I find some difference between us, but I suggest you once again consider the scope of this activity. The third conclusion concerned the effectiveness of the activities of water associations and the consequences for water management in Bulgaria. On the question of effectiveness, I will disprove you, as small companies are in some cases effective, unlike large companies. The example of Sofia Water is eloquent because the first operator takes the big water loan, then transfer the management, water losses in Sofia are not significantly reduced, and prices you can think of have increased dramatically since these water consolidation reforms started. Bulgaria is one of the richest in drinking water and for a reason I put the issue from the perspective of the Pazardzhik region. This is a strategic resource, and I do not exclude that part of the purpose of this reform is to come large powerful operators to push municipalities and other Bulgarian entities and to manage this resource, because in the future it will continue to have more and more importance and strategic and financial. From this point of view, I am not as naive and very optimistic as some of the people who comment on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u99	Hole within four minutes. You won't use it. Thank you, Minister Pavlova. We will now interrupt your answers to enable colleagues Krasimir Karakachanov and Yavor Haytov, who postponed from the previous parliamentary control question to the Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, to now ask their question, and he is about a training session between the army and the Ministry of Interior under the name of Granica 2016. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u100	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! The matter was postponed at our request last week. Unfortunately, it became more up-to-date in view of the events that took place a few days ago in Brussels, as it concerns the subject of the preparation of Bulgarian security forces, the police and the army, on the occasion of the joint exercise held after 3 March between the Ministry of Interior and the Bulgarian Army under the name "Grannitsa 2016." My question to you, Prime Minister, is: in which parts of the country was this occupation conducted and what are the results of it? What were the results and benefits found during the occupation? What are your conclusions and at what level is the stick between the two departments for the performance of joint tasks and the specified shortcomings and remarks that you made to the personnel after the completion of the joint exercise? I remind you that it was about the danger of the invasion of illegal immigrants from a Greek country across the Bulgarian border, but this joint exercise may have led to conclusions what is the level of the two departments for the execution of tasks, in view of the newly emerging situation, which I think is important for the Bulgarian Parliament and for the Bulgarian society to hear the readiness of the institutions that are called to protect the territorial integrity of Bulgaria, the security and life of the Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u101	For an answer, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u102	Mr. Karakachanov, Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen! I have a very bulky answer, and if you'll allow me, I'll leave it to you, because there are a lot of numbers, a lot of estimates, reports, not to bother everyone with them. The occupation is not only because there are now those in the region of Gotse Delchev and elsewhere, but I would like to begin my answer with gratitude to Parliament for allowing the Ministry of Defence to participate in border guards as well. That is why we have conducted these exercises, which, I repeat, continue at the moment, so that the forces and funds can be stacked, respectively, and the leadership not only of the army and the Ministry of Interior, but also of the Red Cross, of all organizations involved in them............................................................................. What dictated that? It was dictated that, with the decisions taken in Brussels, the Republic of Turkey has very clear commitments to enter into force the Agreement, so at the moment, I do not expect surprises from there. They are ambitious because what the European Union has adopted as a solution and a road map obliges them to do a lot of work, and one of them is respectively readmission, respectively border guards. And it is no accident at the time of the Bulgarian-Turkish border that the pressure is small. The real problem I expect will come from Greece, because you see in recent days the government, of course, with a lot of help from the Red Cross, from private companies, we have sent aid both to Greece and Macedonia. Our statement is that in a poor Macedonia, the camps are graveled, concrete, with playgrounds with the best conditions in a poor Macedonia, I say. While in Greece, with the huge, hundreds of millions over 700 million. EUR, and Greece's commitment was yet November the hotspots to be ready for the hotspots, but at the moment they can't account for anything really done and in their camps the conditions are really terrifying. That is why we mainly targeted and deployed a very numerical group of the Ministry of Interior, army, gendarmerie, Red Cross, equipment. That's where they're distributed. Because a few days ago, with the president of Macedonia, even what he asked me to do, I took it to the European Council, their services had also acquired new routes and a very slender organisation from where and how to go. This was granted to the DANS, which was granted to the Ministry of Interior, respectively, at the meeting of the interior ministers in Brussels. Indeed, the conditions and the risks there are terrible. On several occasions they leave, so far the Greeks are stopping them, but they know that we are ready to stop them. Of course, there is also information that says that there are currently organized groups and that there are more than 1000 people, because they know our estimates and similar groups could not easily stop them. Therefore, we have all the readiness, including for a light enclosure, if necessary. That's why we're training the army and the Ministry of Interior to move quickly. I must tell you that from the findings I have made and from what I have observed, yesterday they went on signature, today nearly 5 million and 200,000. lv. We released to the Ministry of Interior mainly for equipment of personnel helmets, helmets, special shoes, shields. Turns out the army has better equipment than the gendarmerie itself, especially in the face of the shields, the helmets. You know, the army is transparent. He sees what's happening in front of him, while the gendarmes are dense and make it very difficult for them to act. So not just for equipment, for their electronic systems, what they wanted, that's what we gave them yesterday. As a matter of fact, I was pleasantly surprised by the commitment, motivation, the desire for action of both the members of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. Moreover, we continued last week at ministerial level with the Macedonians. You know, they've come across the border, we've made hotlines to exchange information with, and we've routed people to our neighbouring countries to monitor every departure or organization of such a movement. So at the moment, I can tell they're working in good sync, we'll get them ready. The main threat I see at the moment is from the Greek border. It is, you know, very long, not protected, and my concern is that the Greek government has not taken the necessary measures in a few months in a row. Our expectations that NATO ships and NATO security in the Aegean Sea will do the job, so far, is also not working. I mean, I have a lot of data that I'm going to give you to see, but this is my finding that I want to share with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u103	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister! From the time you were elected Prime Minister on 7 November, this is my fourth question to you, and you always find time within 20 days to come and answer to Parliament. I say this because, unfortunately, much of your ministers do not find the same time to fulfill their constitutional obligation and obligation under the Rules to appear regularly and to answer specific questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u105	It's just that there are more questions to them and they're getting better in time, Mr. Haytov. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u106	But get to the point. This response on your part was important and not so important to us MPs, it is important to all Bulgarian citizens because really the last weeks and months there is a feeling of anxiety. Especially after the attacks in Brussels, Bulgarian citizens ask the rhetorical question: Could the same happen in our country? But there is one thing that all of us and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Commission, led by Mr. Lazarov for control of the security services, have established without sharing with the government and opposition: Bulgarian special services are doing everything possible for Bulgarian citizens to feel protected and secure to the extent that our powers are sufficient. But there are some things that worry us. Mr. Prime Minister, in the media recently leaked video footage from the Bulgarian-Turkish border, which clearly shows that about 60 illegal immigrants, I would say not without the participation of employees of our services, cross the Bulgarian-Turkish border. This has been discussed and is a matter of verification by the Ministry of Interior Directorate and we expect answers from Minister Bachvarova because this is what we commented during the joint meeting, as I told you, to the Commission. And I want to be assured by you that this is a single case and that it is not a mass practice in this way to violate the inviolable Bulgarian border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u107	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u108	Mr. Karakachanov, Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen! Everyone's concerns are absolutely justified. The world is currently under extreme stress. Of course, we have a resort season ahead of us. Currently we have nearly twice the number of Russian tourists requested. At the moment, they are also a risky group. So the Ministry of Interior and I are preparing plans to protect Russian tourists as well as Israeli tourists, because for the conflicts and what we have as incidents in Egypt and the like, many measures must be taken. As far as border guards or customs officers are concerned, we are constantly conducting operations and detaining people. The fact is that inside the territory of the country and the Serbian border, what I will leave you will see how many people are being held there. That means they got in somehow. I don't think this is the only case. But I repeat, from what I can tell you, I don't know how many developments are being conducted on these people. It's an extremely profitable sewer business. And yesterday, the one we held on Sitnyakovo, we've been stalking him for maybe two or three weeks. And he managed to get them in and bring them to Sofia. In addition, in all places where they meet in larger cities, police operations are currently underway, a hundred percent surveillance by the services, so that anyone who has passed through in any way can be detained. We therefore rely very much now, especially in the Anti-Terrorism Act, the parliament, of course, when we bring it in or a group of MPs to submit it, but it must be done in the fastest way all these problems that have to solve the services and slow down the work... I'm just giving you one example. A foreign citizen who keeps him if we keep him for 24 hours, how do we determine his identity? Here, yesterday the various media say: detained Afghans, Syrians. We're not in one day, not in five... In this case, bear in mind that there is a mass of countries like Libya, such as Syria, where there is no administration. Until we find out whether it is Boyko Borisov or Yavor Haytov, these people need time. If someone, for example Karakachanov, believes that he can quickly say how. And we're supposed to let him go on the 24th hour. We therefore rely very much on Parliament to make the changes quickly on these topics so that they can facilitate the work of the services. We are making huge efforts and if something saves us at this time, it is that they know that even if they break into Bulgaria, they are then detained at the green border of Serbia or inside the country. Fortunately, they're still around us. If there is no breakthrough from Greece, so there, I repeat, we concentrate as much as we have as resources and opportunities. I think Turkey should not expect surprises. And I spoke with Prime Minister Davutoglu in Brussels, indeed what we have done for them, especially visa liberalisation, is an exceptional gesture to Turkey. Money's a little speculated. That 3 plus 3 billion. euros do not go to the Turkish state, but to these camps, as we have given to Greece nearly 700 million. I can make a commitment to you that we very carefully monitor the boundaries, and every intruder will sooner or later keep him. Not to mention that now and inside, when we keep those inside the country, they start talking and we get to those who let them go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u109	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Come on in next Friday. We continue with the questions to Minister Pavlova and her answers. Next is a question of the MP Yavor Haytov about the road section... Before that, excuse me, Mr. Haytov, just to rest from the Prime Minister's reply, there was missed, it wasn't there the moment Mr. Mikov came his turn, now it's you. Question from the MP Mihail Mikov concerning the repair of the road Vidin - Serbian border section village of Byala Rada - village of Voinitsa.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! To Minister Plevneliev, I asked this question twice. About a year ago, I asked Minister Pavlova again about this time. We are talking about an international road of 200 meters, where there is a gap, a real gulf of the international road! In April last year, I told you I'd ask you again about this time or rather about this 200-meter stretch. It is absurd to talk about highways, about miracles, about viaducts and big things, after there is a gap on the international road! Then you told me you were going to study the work, spend some money on research and stuff. Apropos, they spent some money making this precinct, and it fell apart. There's been a precipice. And now let's see how far the work has come and see how much the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian government, the ministries, the API and a hundred institutions can repair the 200 metro section gap, if you have to viaduct do there too, spend 10-15-20-50-100 million, because in this you have to, in order for the road between Vidin and the Serbian border to be walking and normal. When will this precinct be on the road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Minister Pavlova, you have the opportunity to answer the question that has been so engaging.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u112	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mikov! The fact is that in the direction of the road Vidin You know that a bypass route has been built, the so-called bypass route, in order to ensure the passage to today in this direction. As I have answered you before, what we have done is that we have commissioned research and design works what are the necessary reinforcement actions that must be done to solve the problem of this landslide permanently. You know that the reinforcements made in the previous period did not reflect because we have a serious landslide process that requires serious reinforcement activities. We conducted a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. In December, we signed a contract with the projector to analyse, to do detailed research and to give several project solutions that could strengthen the landslide. The projector's deadline for providing these variant solutions is completed, they are provided and their coordination is ongoing by the Expert Council of the API and the Expert Board of landslides so that these actions can be validated. The indicative value of the proposed options in order to strengthen the landslide is 2,5 million. lv. The Road Infrastructure Agency is preparing this project to apply and to finance the strengthening within the framework of the Environment Programme, in which you know that in the new programming period there is a budget to strengthen landslides. So we will submit the project under this Programme, in parallel with this, however, we will conduct a selection procedure for a contractor so that we do not waste time and choose a contractor to be assigned to. Of course, we will also hope for this funding under the Environment Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u113	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, just to tell you that the period of the bridge through the Kerchen Strait 20 km is in 2018. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] One mandate passed by President Plevneliev, whom I have twice asked you to be alive and well and you to become President [[crowd cheering and laughing from BSP LB]] I hope to finally settle this issue for those 200 meters. [[Applause from BSP LB]] from the international road with our western neighbor. No bypass was ever done. This is the old road from 50 to 60 years ago, a socialist road! [[Laughter and applause from BSP LB.]] And this time it was socialist, but it became a way of public procurement, because there are millions in those 200 meters. Who was responsible last time? It's not strengthened at all! You dig it all up, you make a new path and about a year!? About a year, and it's gone! This is how we build in Bulgaria with public procurement, with research, with his miracles, with his commissions, with all kinds of players! That's what's happening! And people look and say, "Where are we, what Europe, what five leva?............................................... Please force this because it is a great exposure that there is a country in Bulgaria at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Would you like a douche? No. Mr. Haytov, next is your question from the southern border. We're going to the cave. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Your question is about the road section of Vratsa Zgorigrad. You have the floor to develop your question! Please be quiet in this Chamber, fellow Members on the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to invite you to come to Vratsa District really not at the election time. We just found out you don't have any service cars available. [[M Minister Lilyana Pavlova's line]] I promise you I'll get you one because it's really good out of elections to see what's done and what's not done. But basically, my question is this. One year and four months ago, I asked you a question about when and what are the options for starting a road section in the part of Vratsa village of Zgorigrad next to the cave. This is an extremely important road section that gives access not only to the Cave, but also to the several hotels located there and the possibility of tourist visits to the natural park of Vrachanski Balkan. Your response at the time was that it was your priority and you are providing funding under the Programme for Regions 2014-2020 in the road sector. The project is in the first priority projects to be launched. We have provided financial resources for it for both design and construction. That was an exact quote from your response back then. Like I said, that was a year and four months ago. Now I ask the same question to you again, and it is: when and what are the opportunities to provide funding and when do you plan to start the main repair of this road section, namely Vratsa "Zgorigrad" Cave, as part of the natural park "Vrachanski Balkan"?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u117	Thank you, dear colleague Haytov. Minister Pavlova, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! As I answered the last time you asked this question, I can confirm my answer to date with some up-to-date information. This time, this project is an important part of the priorities for the development of road infrastructure, as it leads to tourist attraction, including also funded by European funds, albeit significantly ocapped by the municipality of Vratsa. However, I hope that the Iceman and the locality there will be and will remain an attractive place for tourists to visit. What I can confirm is that funding has been provided and, as a design and technical project, the same is fully ready and completed. It was part of the first 12 priority projects to be used by the Agency to apply for funding under the Programme.), The program was open for application and the Roads Agency submitted the first 12 projects for funding in this priority axis, where we have 380 million. lv. to rehabilitate priority road sections leading to tourist attractions or leading and connecting roads from the international and Republican road network and European corridors. The project is submitted, the Road Infrastructure Agency is preparing the tender documentation to announce the selection of a contractor, as we want in parallel with the process, while the evaluation and approval of this Project is going on and the conclusion of a financing contract under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" between the Operational Programme and the API, along with this API, prepares the documentation in order to announce the tender procedure and if there is no appeal, even in this construction season, in the summer or autumn of this year, to be selected a contractor and to start the specific actions for road repairing. Full repair and rehabilitation is envisaged with drainage systems and facilities 17 km from this whole road. Its indicative value is 13 million. lv. and they, I hope, will be confirmed by the operational programme and I hope that even this year its renovation will begin again, in a successful tender procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Haytov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, do you know what impressed me when you were in charge? You didn't read, you spoke freely, and you accurately quoted the amount, and you quoted the kilometers. That's important to me. It is important, because you do not fit purely administratively to read what your employees have written, but quite clearly, correctly and specifically you have seen into the problem. But I sincerely hope that in a year and four months, I will not stand on this stand again and ask you the same question. Because time is running out, the construction seasons are starting and interrupting, and we are meeting with our constituents, our relatives and relatives from Vrachan region, and we are wondering what to tell them. They cannot understand why really such, at first glance, small things from a national plan and scale do not happen. We cannot hide the fact that in fact Stara Planina divides Bulgaria not only in northern and southern Bulgaria, but in the rich South and the poor North, and unfortunately, the even poorer Northwest. You, as a government, are finally obliged to look fatherly at this region and to start investing more seriously and make people there live authoritatively and dignifiedly. I have a letter from one of the mayors in one of the small municipalities in our district, in the Vratsa district, in the municipality of Hajredin, and there I would like to assure you, they have also applied pictures to the letter that people invite you, want to meet you, to introduce you to sharp problems, because the roads are really not only impenetrable, but they are also dangerous to the health and life of the citizens. Allow me to give you the letter, just as the Prime Minister has given us his reply and I ask you to read it and really get an answer. [[The National Representative Yavor Haytov delivered the letter to Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u121	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Do you need a duplicate, Mrs. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question by Mr. Ananiev, however, he is transformed in writing, so you will reply in writing. The following is a question from the MP Mariana Boyadjieva concerning the poor condition of Republican Road III-502, from the branch of the village of Patres to the village of Dolna Lipnitsa on the territory of the municipality of Pavlikeni. Mrs. Boyadjieva, I remember that this must be the third time that this question is being asked within the current Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This section of the Republican Road III-502 is in an extremely depreciated state. The municipality of Pavlikeni has repeatedly turned to state institutions to receive support for its maintenance. Regardless of the partial patchings that have been made using the technology, the condition of the road remains very bad, I would describe it as tragic. And this time it is important because it connects two municipalities of Pavlikeni and Polski Trambesh, and is the most direct route to Ruse. Several thousand people from the two municipalities are struggling in their movement because of the state of the road. From this day on, middle buses carrying students pass ambulances, cars that fill with bread and essential goods, bus carriers are already in trouble. The situation is really unbearable, people are totally disappointed with the attitude of the state. Therefore, once again, Madam Minister, we ask the question: what will the Ministry do so that it can really be brought into such a state, which looks like a road from the Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Boyadjieva! On the third-class road, Polski Trumpesh "Dolna Lipnitsa "Patres, 29 km long, there are really areas with seriously compromised pavements, the worst is the section of Pavlikeni municipality, in the region of Dolna Lipnitsa "Patres, about 6 km. They are in the worst and most unsatisfactory condition. It is an undisputed fact that a complete rehabilitation of both this and many other third-class roads connecting district centres and settlements is necessary. Within the framework of the budget available to the Road Agency, ongoing repairs and maintenance activities shall be carried out. The analysis shows that the overall solution and rehabilitation of the entire road section requires quite serious investments over 7 million. lv. This is the reason why such a thorough rehabilitation has not been awarded at the moment. What I can assure you is that for this most compromised section of the road, these 6 km, priority will be provided within the budget of the Road Agency under the Programme for Current Repair and Maintenance of the Road, so that we can begin in stages, initially from the worst sections, repair and partial repairs, so that we can bring the road to a certain, unfortunately, not in the best condition, but still make the way in good condition for use and so gradual, I hope, with time little by little, we can fix both this and other road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Boyadjieva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u126	Dear Minister, I appreciate that you understand the grave condition of this road and it is really important that the state fulfill its commitment because people have repeatedly protested. Just last May, over 300 people from the settlements in the region went to protest because there is no longer a driver going down this road who has not been injured and has no damage to his car when he travels to this precinct. In those six miles that you're talking about, there are six settlements. People in this area have made their way through the clearings or through the meadows to go faster. Even to the village of Patres have made their way, called by the people with the bitter irony of the surrounding or around the ring. So I urge you, indeed within the year, to provide funds and to correct it this time, because I want to tell you that there are already other roads, for example, to the village of Karaisen, which is also from the Republican road network, which are beginning to become even worse than this section, for which I am asking you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? No. The next question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova is from the MP Manol Genov. It is about the implementation of a project for extension of road II-86, Plovdiv "Asenovgrad," in 2016. It is probably a second-class road. Here you are, Mr. Genov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I appeal to you about the opportunities for realization of a project for extension of the Republican road P-86, Plovdiv This question has been raised and is constantly put by colleagues from past mandates of 17. Plovdiv mandate electoral area. In 2012, you, as Minister of Regional Development, say in such a response that funds from the state budget and a loan from the European Investment Bank will be provided for the financing of this project, and the procedure for selecting a contractor will be carried out by the end of 2012 and from the spring of 2013 to start the implementation activities of the first stage of construction. In parliamentary control since June 2013, your successor Minister of Regional Development Desislava Terzieva stated that the rehabilitation of road P-86, Plovdiv In addition, that a proposal for an extension of the loan agreement to 2016, which is currently in coordination with the European Investment Bank, has been prepared together with the European Investment Bank. I have information that the alienation procedures for 34 properties, which are necessary and entering the server and in the canvas area, are complete. My question is this: Is your ministry planning to announce a procedure for selecting a contractor for the implementation of this project in 2016? Is there funding for its implementation, how much and from where? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u130	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, what I can confirm to date is that the project for rehabilitation and expansion of the road Plovdiv was completed as a design, and the procedure for alienating 42 properties is also in progress. I would say that for these 42 properties, which must be alienated, in order to be able to build and expand the entire road section, 37 cases of property owners were filed. In part of the cases they did not appear in these cases, so we took the procedure that allowed us the law, namely to transfer the amounts due as compensation to the governor. This enables us, in fact, to assemble this project in order to issue its building permit. The travel agency set up the project and submitted it for funding, as I had answered a previous question on this topic for funding under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project was submitted, as I have already answered for the Iceman, within the deadline for submitting the programme, which expired last month and the evaluation of this project proposal is under way. The indicative value of this project is 22 million. BGN, which are provided for in the program. This project is in the first 12, which were submitted as the most priori to funding. It is ranked fifth as importance and priority, as we are aware of the importance of this road and the serious traffic that is going through it. While the evaluation, approval and conclusion of a contract between the managing authority of the operational programme and API is ongoing, API shall prepare the tender documentation in order to be able, in parallel with this process, to announce the tender and to conduct the selection procedure of the contractor. If there is no appeal under this procedure, at the end of the summer or autumn of this year, I hope to say again, at the latest, if there are no appeals, the contract will be concluded and the activities of the implementation of this road direction will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u131	Thank you, dear Minister. A hole? Mr. Genov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u132	Dear Minister, I hope that what you have said from this tribune is true, and if you announce the procedure in time and there is no appeal on it, all of this will happen. But both I and the people who are interested in this construction are under the impression that every government comes and promises that it will solve this issue. Something's getting in the way, something's happening, the project's always gonna be crooked, and the alienations will be predicted later. I understand from your words that all estrangement procedures have been completed, that is, there are no obstacles to organizing the order and the competition documentation, and I hope that the words you said from this tribune, indeed in the autumn, to do the next one, but this time let it be the last first dig of this object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u133	A hole, Mrs. Pavlova? You won't use it. We are going to questions with a common answer of the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Velizar Enchev and Vasil Antonov. They are related to the design and completion of Hemus Motorway. He will be the first to develop his question, Mr. Kadiev, whom I do not see in this Chamber. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor. The Quaestors, please look for Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u134	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! In early December 2015, the National Company "Strategic and Infrastructure Projects" was a state enterprise subordinate to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, published the final ranking of the builders of 60 km highway "Hemus". It became clear that 500 million. lv. They are going to a consortium close to DPS MP Delyan Peevski and 300 million in the consortium of GP Group and property of another prominent Bulgarian oligarch. Adding the VAT amount, almost 1 billion is received. BGN, which makes the 60 km segment the most expensive in the world. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: why do the winners' offers exceed almost twice the project's estimated value? And why did the state eliminate candidates at the lowest prices from the competition? As I said at the beginning of parliamentary control, this question was asked on 25 December last year and only now, three months later you answer me after the Prime Minister has already intervened. For this reason, I accept that with my question I have provoked the Prime Minister's actions in defence of the public interest. And I also hope that you will answer now in your question, in particular, to guarantee that the new auctions will be fair, transparent and subject to only two criteria of law and public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u135	It's Mr. Kadyev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Pavlova, as you can see, on the one hand, a great deal of interest in this issue, it is still a matter of 1 billion. lv. Three MPs have asked the question and, at the same time, a three-month delay in the answer, which makes this whole hearing a farce, because the matter has already been partially resolved. What I would like you to answer, in addition to Mr. Enchev's question, if there is a violation of this procedure, which we obviously believe there is, then who is punished and how? If there isn't, then why did the Prime Minister stop the order? And in addition, of course, the question: how are we going to make sure that in the future it doesn't happen a second time and a third time to remove companies that have the lowest offers and win companies that are close to the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u137	And Mr. Vasil Antonov's question regarding the completion of the highway
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Pavlova, I take advantage of my right to ask you my question, all the more so that I have repeatedly raised the question of the highway and its construction. In my opinion, too inadequately started the execution of the design at the beginning. For a long time you have argued, and in the previous answers, that the project, which is going from the direction of completion of the highway to the section of Pleven Lovech, is perfect, and in fact we see that the big problems after the suspension of the procedure are in this particular part. With all my responsibility, I would like to ask once again: how do you really see the deadlines for completion of the procedure and these deadlines, which you have repeatedly delayed with the completion of the procedures, with the beginning of the construction, with the procedures for alienation, on appeal and so on, do they have an end? Or will you once again give us hopes and leave the people in this part of Bulgaria lying? Such an important part of Bulgaria, in which the only hope is connected, first, with the construction of the highway of Hemus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u139	Nine minutes for a joint response, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u140	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, Dear Mr. Kadiev, Dear Mr. Antonov, first of all, I would like to confirm once again the intention, desire and will of the government for the construction of the highway of Hemus and those remaining, although remaining, but more than 250 km from this highway, so that it can be fully completed. The design, the construction of these 250 km, together with two other projects, was given as an opportunity, as one, to call it a pilot initiative and a new initiative within the previous cabinet of the government Borisov, was entrusted to the National Company Strategic Infrastructure Projects. A company to try to prioritize its efforts in the direction of the best way of choosing, preparing projects, analyzing how to build this highway. In these studies, no one and no two routes and possible directions for crossing this route were studied, and in 2014 the route was finally chosen to pass the entire 250 km section, some of which were the first 60 km, for which a tender procedure was announced at the beginning of last year. Here I take the case to answer the three of you that the tender procedure, which has been carried out, although terminated to date, since you are asking the question, I would like to clarify, has been declared a two-tier tender procedure with preliminary selection of companies to appear and submit their technical and financial offers. The first phase is a phase of eligibility for whether the companies that have expressed interest in number 14 meet the requirements to be able to build such an expensive and complex site, such as the motorway. "Hemus" which is built in complex terrain. From then on, the 11 companies that have successfully passed the preliminary control procedure are invited to submit their offers. Then is the period when the design of this object is finished. The public procurement was not declared on the principle of the lowest price, but on the principle of the most economically advantageous tender, which means that the final assessment of the companies to which the financial offers are opened and therefore calculated which company is the winner is not assessed only at the criterion price, but also the technical assessments given by the evaluation committee for the company's ability to fulfil the relevant section. The procedure was completed in December. Checks have been carried out to date on the procedure, showing that it has been carried out in compliance with the Public Procurement Act and that during its implementation no violations have been detected in the conduct of the procedure. The procedure, I say again, is the most economically profitable. When opening the offers there are also offers that are slightly lower than the offers of the companies selected at that time for performers of these two lotts 30 km each. However, I would say that in this case, the rated financial offers of those companies which were rejected and subsequently appealed the procedure do not meet the requirements of the procedure and would in any event be rejected by the evaluation committee. If these companies had a sufficient number of points to be selected as contractors, the financial offers do not meet the requirements of the tender procedure. What happened since then, after the choice of performers? Contractors were selected for these two lots, there was an appeal and an appeal procedure, which, you know, suspended, suspended the contract process. Parallelly, after the analyses, the talks, all that you mentioned, an analysis and a review of the possibilities to secure this significant financial resource was carried out. The financing of the highway was also put as an opportunity as a backup project under the new Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure 2014-2020" but, unfortunately, we were also informed by the Managing Authority of this Operational Programme that the available financial resources for the entire programming period 2014 "2020," for all road sections is worth 670 million. Euros. This is the maximum value of all projects that would be financed under this Operational Programme, with which the Managing Authority confirmed that these funds would be sufficient for the completion of the remaining three sections of the Struma Motorway and the completion of the Western Rainbow of the Sofia Ring Road. There is not enough financial resources to finance the construction of the highway. This was also the basis on which the National Company Strategic Road Projects terminated the tender procedure for selecting a contractor, as the requirements of this tender procedure strictly complied with the requirements of the Operational Programme and the additional activities which should be financed if these sections were built with funds from the European funds. This is information about the completed procedure. Affirmative, it is closed, held on the principle of an economically most advantageous offer, is not at the lowest price. It's legal, it's terminated, it's also legal. Since its termination was contested by part of the companies and the complaints were rejected in favour of the National Company that the termination of the contract was done lawfully and on the grounds of the grounds for its termination. What's next? You know, at the first vote passed the Law amending the Roads Act, with which National Company "Strategic Road Projects" was to be closed in this form and the Road Infrastructure Agency................................................................................. the implementation of this project........................................................................................................................................................ If this Bill succeeds at second reading, and enters into force, from the next or the following month the Road Infrastructure Agency will take over the implementation of these projects again the completion of the Struma and the launch of public contracts for the selection of performers of the motorway of Hemus, in its sections. How do we plan to do that? The analysis showed that these first 60 km, this section and the chosen route were selected as a road direction, design was made, the EIA procedure was made, there was a positive EIA solution, there were activities carried out with the approval of parcel plans and detailed development plans for the implementation of the project. What was taken as a decision after the analysis of the documentation was to redesign this section in order to reduce the design speed on the basis of which the construction of the highway was designed. The design speed at which it was designed is 140 km per hour. Such design speed requires a maximum straight road path, with much smaller curves and curves in order to achieve this design speed. Taking into account the environmental requirements for avoiding protected areas, the route includes two very large tunnels and several large facilities, the viaduct, the type of facilities of Vitinya, in this cross terrain. This gives the justification why construction is so expensive in this section of this motorway. The decision we have made is assigned to the specialists, redesigning this section, reducing the design speed to 120 km, between 100 and 120 km per hour, reducing the dividing line between the sails of this motorway in order to partially narrow the gauge. The reduction in design speed will enable a minimum of one to be removed, and perhaps both tunnels along the route, to choose a different terrain in these areas, which will significantly reduce the value of the order, since on average these tunnels would reduce the order and the value of the award, construction and construction by about 100 to 150 million. BGN, as heavy, complex facilities meeting all the standards for design and construction of such type of highway gauges and sections. The 60km division will be divided into four subdivisions. The first one, which is also indisputable, is the division from Yablanitsa to Boaza, the first 10 km there is no redesign, there is no doubt, there is only a small reduction of the position which has already been done and is entrusted. Once all appeals are passed and we have the right to declare this procedure, with the reduced gauge, at the reduced construction value we will be able to immediately, I hope another June month to announce a public procurement contract under the new Public Procurement Act for the first 10 km from the direction of the motorway, namely from Jablanica to Boaza. For the other three sections, the average division of sections between 15 and 17 km each of them will be redesigned because these are precisely the sections in which the tunnel solutions are to be redesigned, to drop out, to reduce the large viaducts, to reduce their scope and gauge, so that after redesigning we can carry out the procedure for amending the environmental impact assessment, as there are protected areas in this area, and then for these sections to be declared a public contract for the selection of a contractor under the Public Procurement Act. Whether it will be an economically most profitable offer, as it has been held at the moment, or will be at the lowest price, it is a topic and issue that we are about to discuss, because, as many times in the years back, we have discussed when talking about rehabilitation of road sections [[the President signals that time has run out]] , then it is possible to talk about the lowest price. When we talk about more complex facilities, it is important, apart from the lowest price, to take into account the capacity, the ability to build and experience, especially to build complex facilities, type of highway sections, on which to do all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u141	Replices, coworkers? In the order in which you asked your questions, the first is Mr. Enchev, then Mr. Kadiev and Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u142	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! I am not pleased because you have not given an answer to the most important question asked by Mr. Kadiev who are responsible and how they will be punished. Namely, we need to know who is responsible for what happened, because Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's intervention is proof of one thing that the project is not viable, therefore it is corrupt. There's a logical connection between the two. The fact is that 3-4 companies in Bulgaria in the last 20 years have won the projects to build new lotts, in this case they are in the highway. It's also quite questionable, not to say opaque, and why not corrupt. You say the principle of economic gain is more important than the lowest price. Then put the question of the quality of the works carried out in the construction not only of the highway "Hemus" but, let's say, of the highway "Trakiya". We all know and we see the tracks that only appeared a year, a year and a half after the construction of the sections after Rice. What does that tell you? By choosing the most economically advantageous offer, with the lowest price, you have chosen the worst private company that has done the repairs in this way. I continue to argue that the Prime Minister's intervention in this case, which was purely formally correct, and from a legal point of view is quite controversial, but it proves once again that in Bulgaria, in road construction, and obviously in the project, which will be debated in three sections of the motorway.......................................................................... In this sense, I think that we all see with our own eyes what is the quality of the constructions not only of the highway "Trakiya" but also of the highway "Struma" and especially of the section from Sofia to Pernik. If I am not mistaken, the contractor was a Turkish firm, and, if I am not mistaken, this was right during the mandate of Mr. Boyko Borisov's first government, where you, Minister, were also responsible for these sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u143	Mr. Kadyev, your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Pavlova! Both I and the Bulgarian society have no doubt that you have chosen the most economically advantageous offer. The problem is that you think it is the most beneficial for society, and according to society, it is the most beneficial for you, for certain corrupt people in the government, for the companies that have won this contract and for the people behind them, according to media publications, colleague Delyan Peevski and Valentin Zlatev. The Prime Minister said he verified this order. It means he's done something on top of it, he's looked at it. I'd like to know if anyone seriously checked this thing. I immediately give you several data: the estimated value of the first segment is 168 million. lv. He won a company with 298 million. lv. Who made this estimate? Is this guy that incompetent? Or, in fact, half the money was stolen. Let's say the first segment is an exception. We're looking at the second segment of the total cost of 266 million. BGN and final price 499 million lv. Same job, one in two. Either you have some horribly incompetent people who have made the forecast, or at the end price is calculated 50% commission for whoever has arranged the auction. Take a look at the average of every mile of highway that has been built in recent years: the Thracian highway. On average, about 4.5 million, the Struma highway is about 6 million on average, and this is about 15.5 million. Now you're suddenly saying, "We're going to slow down, we're going to take out tunnels in order to make a different track design and reduce the price." Well, where have you been? So we ask everyone, who is to blame for this thing? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because we all think there's some kind of corruption scam here and it's not for a lev, two or three. You said that the companies that have been removed have given a slightly lower price. The lower price is 70 million. lv. If this is not enough for you, for people it is not. But all these questions are left unanswered today: who is guilty? Who tried to steal the money? Why the state of Bulgarian highways and so bad in Bulgaria? It is bad precisely because of corruption in the construction of highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u145	Mr. Antonov, you're up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Pavlova! Unfortunately, I'm not going to tell you anything other than what my colleagues have. You didn't get any good news from your response today. The regret is even greater because we understand that there will be no de facto highway. Of all the questions that we have asked once again, this is the third time I have put the question to you in this National Assembly. In general, you've explained the procedure. These are actually the previous answers. The only new thing I was able to learn from you today is that the route from Pleven to Lovech is divided not into two lots, but into four, four sections sooner, but nothing else than what you answered me a year and a half ago and nearly seven, eight months ago. Once again, I would like to remind you that you have been chosen, including by the people of Northern Bulgaria, especially because of the Transport and Transport Infrastructure Programme, and the implementation of the highway of Hemus. Today you inform us that this Programme and the Hemus Highway are a complete failure. You didn't commit to a single deadline today, you didn't commit to anything. Today, we understand from you that there will be no highway, and you fail to perform this highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u147	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Enchev, I will begin in the order of the supplementary questions that have been asked. The first thing I have to say as a general comment is that, as I said at the beginning, I will confirm it and finally to my reply: the highway is our priority. Just because it needs to be redesigned and made differently does not mean that we are giving up this priority. On the contrary, we will now put further efforts and energy into making it so designed that it is designed in a way that meets the requirements for design and construction of motorways, in a way in which to protect, however, a better price for its construction, which, in this case, means the need to redesign its gauge and its design speed. What you have mentioned, dear Mr. Enchev, and the comparison you made with "Trakiya" is incorrect because the highway "Trakiya" "at its construction," as well as the motorway "Maritsa" are built with funds from the European funds in the previous term are built by companies that were chosen on the lowest price and not at the most economically advantageous price. The fact is that some of the sections have defects, there are defects not only in these areas, defects occur, unfortunately some performers have more than others, but the defects are something that is removed at the expense of the guarantees that we hold against these performers. They shall be carried out at the expense of performers who have committed one defect or another, and they shall have their period of five years respectively, a period to remedy the defects, if any. This is something that we introduced within the previous term, because until then the removal of defects at the expense of the performers was only in a period of one year. The choice of this and the transition from the lowest price to the most economically advantageous price, and our desire and will to make this decision, was precisely in seeking a better quality and not necessarily the lowest price when talking about complex objects and facilities. The construction of the highway is in the terrain quite different from the terrain of the highway "Trakiya", as highway "Hemus" and the route of the current highway on one Vetinya, let's say, is complex, heavy terrain, are complex conditions of the relief that require the construction of tunnels, viaducts and corresponding facilities for crossing this terrain. The design, which will be carried out, of course, will make sure that this section goes to the chosen route to the maximum extent, but to follow the conditions of the relief and the terrain, this will automatically reduce the cost of its construction. The termination is lawful, confirmed and verified by the control institutions, the new procedure, I would like to assure you, will be in the spirit of the new Public Procurement Act, which creates prerequisites for more transparency, so the procedure will be carried out by the Roads Agency in a transparent way, following the Public Procurement Act, which was adopted by the National Assembly. Regarding Mr. Kadiev's question about who made the decision and whose fault it is, if we can speak in the case of wines, yes, here you are right, and I can agree with you that there is an incorrect, incorrect calculation by the employees of the National Company's team, Strategic Road Projects, which, when declaring the indicative value of the public procurement for these two lots, declare it, however, in the context of an unavailable complete project with all the values of this project and have determined this value, it is a reference, again, to the construction of the two sections, not complying with the need to build these complex facilities, tunnels and viaducts, which are part of the project, which was made and completed in the past year, so this is the fault of the National Company, Strategic Road Projects which have not made the necessary calculations. They made them actually, but they did them on preliminary projects, not on the final idea design, which comes out later, which I can say in their defense. What I can say about the procedure, you asked: has an inspection been carried out? Yes, the inspection has been carried out by the control authorities, by the Inspectorate, and I have already mentioned, once again, no violations have been detected in the procedure itself. We have the incorrect calculation of indicative values on the one hand. The procedure itself was carried out legally. Regarding Mr. Antonov's question, I think that's what I started with, but I'll finish with that too. Highway "Hemus" remains a priority. I told you, after completing the appeals of the terminated procedure and the entry into force of this termination, and when these activities are transferred to the "Hemus" Agency, without delay, I hope, at the latest June, will announce a tender under the Public Procurement Act, an open procedure for selecting a contractor for the first section of the motorway........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In parallel, the Agency with the teams will also assign the redesign of the other three sections of the first stage, which is up to the branch of Pleven "Lovech" to be redesigned in such a way as to avoid these sections where necessary, where necessary at the moment, and it is envisaged at the moment the construction of two tunnels and two complex viaducts and facilities, thus making such a design, leading to a significant reduction of the value and the means necessary to build this motorway by about 100 to 150 million. lv. until it's built. All of this will also be entrusted immediately another month of May, at the latest June, to the Roads Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u149	My fellow Members, I would like to make an announcement that by the end of today's parliamentary control questions and questions will be raised to Mrs. Pavlova. She has cancelled her commitment, but given the time we have left, and the many questions that have been raised to her, by my preliminary calculations we will probably get to the 22nd issue included. This is Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's question about the 2016 travel funds for Sliven Ichera. It is possible to change if one of the MPs is not present in the Chamber, so for colleagues who are on the list of questions after the 23rd to Minister Pavlova, there will probably be no time left. The same goes for Minister Moskovski, Goranov and so on. On the list, we cannot, within a single day of parliamentary control, exhaust the required 15 hours for answers. Now we're doing a very short recess for 10 minutes, and then Mr. Borislav Iglev, please be in the room, you're okay. Ten minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u150	Honourable Members, we are continuing today's parliamentary control. The next question is from the MP Borislav Iglev on the reconstruction of a road section, generally speaking. Who he is we'll hear. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I have repeatedly asked questions related to reconstructions of road sections in Haskovo region. Everyone travelling in the area is known to be in an extremely miserable state. My current question is related to the road connecting the town of Madzharovo and the city of Harmanli. This is a stretch that is almost impenetrable and more like a route for offroad racing. Still, if someone dared to cross over on it, it would have cost them about 45 minutes for a distance of about 14 km. In this regard, I ask you to answer: is the reconstruction of this area envisaged? Within what deadlines is the road repair envisaged and what are the financial parameters for its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u152	And thank you, Mr. Iglev. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u153	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Iglev, Madzharovo, Harmanli, which is served by two of the Republican roads: the road from Harmanli to Dolni Glavanak and from Dolni Glavanak to the branch for the village of Borislavovtsi, is implemented also with connection to one of the municipal roads on the territory of Madzharovo. The two road sections we are talking about are operated by the Roads Agency within the framework of the Program for Current Repair and Maintenance of these roads. During the past years, including in 2015, activities have been carried out under ongoing renovation and partial improvement. With regard to the road from the town of Harmanli to the village of Dolni Glavanak, road III-808, its length is 34 km, of which almost 20 km are cut in a satisfactory condition. Unfortunately, however, there are also sections in poor operating condition and they are about 14 km. The analysis shows that a resource of over 7 million is needed for the overall reconstruction and rehabilitation of these areas. lv. That is why the Agency's budget will continue its efforts to repair these road sections under the Programme for Current Repair and Maintenance this year. As for the lasting solution of the problem and the complete repair of the road will not be sufficient available financial resources, so we will continue to maintain it within the framework of the efforts, within the framework of the Programme and the funding available for ongoing repairs, and we will, of course, prioritize the sections of the road that are in the worst condition. With regard to the second third-class road from the village of Dolni Glavanak to the branch of the village of Borislavovtsi, this is a 10-km stretch, along which are observed single destructions and deformations, which will be carried out within the framework of our Program for Current Repair and Maintenance, which begins now after the winter season is over. I hope that with the funds we have in the budget, we will be able to improve the state of these sections as part of the measures that we are starting from April, May and June on repair, rehabilitation, patching up and improving the state of the roads after the winter season that ends, I hope, at the end of this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u154	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Mr. Iglev, straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u155	Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I asked you exactly about the sections for which repairs are most pressing. It's about 14 kilometers. Once again, I stand behind the thesis that second-class and third-class roads are no less important than others. For some areas, these roads are the only way people can move. I will ask you to take my words seriously, and not because of me, but because of the people who live in Madzharovo, Harmanli and the surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u156	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Madam Secretary? You're giving up the right to the dot. Question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev concerning the inclusion of student dorms in the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings. Here you are, Mr. Tanev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the possibility of including student dorms in the National Energy Efficiency Program of multifamily residential buildings. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, on 2 February 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted Decree No 18 on the adoption of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multifamily Buildings. The decree has been supplemented and amended twice and amended on 8 May 2015 and 19 October 2015 respectively. According to the Methodical Guidelines of the Programme eligible for application are all multi-family residential buildings built by industrial means, i.e. so-called "panelers." It becomes clear that they have the right to apply only private buildings in which there are dwellings, as is known, in which they do not live, or if they live, they live very little. On the other hand, under this Programme, it is not permissible to have the student dormitories renovated. As you know, in Sofia and in the country there are over 100 such dorms where there are almost three students living everywhere in a room. My question is related to the following to enable student dormitories, through higher schools or through the Ministry of Education and Science respectively, to be able to apply for this. It seems extremely unreasonable, on the one hand, for the state to spend hundreds of millions on the Programme, and for this effect to extend to a relatively small circle of people and, at the same time, students, our children, the smartest and most intelligent part of the population, cannot be included in this Programme and therefore cannot improve their conditions. Moreover, the costs associated with their indwelling, overheads.. heating, lighting and so on are entirely state or entirely costs which they themselves bear through the fees. My question is: would you take the necessary measures to include higher schools, respectively student dormitories, in the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u158	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Minister Pavlova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, the topic of financing and energy efficiency measures of the student dorms, not only on the territory of Sofia, but also all dorms throughout the country, we discussed within the previous programming period. Energy efficiency activities, which we financed under the Regional Development Programme, were not admitted to be possible after coordination with the European institutions in terms of the likelihood of unacceptable State aid in buildings and intervention sites, of an investment where this investment, in this case, energy efficiency, is invested in commercial companies that manage such hostels, because they are, in their own sense, generating income from the rents that are paid for the use of these dorms. This was the reason why these dormitories were not allowed to be financed in the previous programming period. For this programming period, given that we are aware of the need for these dormitories to be renovated, to be energy efficient, not only as a kind of building, but also as costs for their management, the analysis has shown that by observing the hypothesis that we do not allow funding of projects that may fall into unacceptable state aid, we have also found this opportunity within our new Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020 ", we have given the possibility for the municipalities to benefit from the 39 major cities, in the territory of which there are universities that have dormitories, if they provide for these housings to be renovated in the integrated plan for urban development and recovery under the budget line of energy efficiency, then these generalities can receive partial funding and partial funding from the several funds that will be created, with the funds that will be created, with the funds from the Operational Programme of Growth Regions, the Urban Development Fund. It is a fund that provides long-term low-interest lending to revenue generating sites and receives support under the operational programme through the created financial instrument So the 39 major municipalities, after the urban development funds are created, if they have provided for this type of investment for repair and energy efficiency of these dorms, the municipalities will be able to apply and receive funding under the operational programme and long-term lending. The second option that we have for financing dorms is provided on the line of so-called Esco contracts are applicable when we have one building owner. It pays the total bill for heating and lighting, and the esco contract represents a preliminary investment for measures of energy efficiency and savings, it is paid for a certain period of time. With regard to the National Energy Efficiency Programme, it focuses solely on multi-family residential buildings that are priority. These are the panel buildings on the territory of the country. 3 million Bulgarian citizens live in them and therefore they are a priority and subject to funding under the National Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u160	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here's a line, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u161	Dear Minister, I am partially satisfied with your response, as I see you are looking for the possibility to resolve the problem of renovation of student dorms through other measures. I fear that, in this programme, if we make further efforts, this could happen, and the change in this programme, as I said, has been changed twice in terms of the inability to be financed in the light of unacceptable State aid, on the one hand, I would say that part of the dorms belong to higher schools, i.e. they are state property and not property of a commercial company, and on the other hand the possibility of State aid could be investigated. Accordingly, an inquiry can be made to the European Commission. I'm sure they'll understand. I know some of the dorms get a cab. That's one of the problems. My question is: does the station of the National Assembly or the station of the Council of Ministers in Sunny Beach not take revenue? Takes revenue, but the state shows understanding and repairs from time to time. I hope that you will make an effort, if possible, to change this programme and, after the European Commission's permission, to allow this instrument to be used as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u162	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Right on the back. You're giving up. The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski concerning the project "Modernization and development of sustainable urban transport" in the city of Plovdiv, funded by the Operational Program "Regional Development." Mr. Tarnovalysky, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Minister, Municipality of Plovdiv implements the Project "Modernization and development of sustainable urban transport" funded by Operational Program "Regional development" with a total value of more than 44 million. lv. The project envisages implementation of three components: design and construction of bikes, construction of a system for urban transport management............................................................................................... The initial deadline for implementation of the project is 2 July 2015. At the request of Plovdiv Municipality the deadline with annex was set on 2 February 2016. Last week the Plovdiv media informed that Plovdiv Municipality has requested a new delay in the final of the transport project by two months. According to the media, the reason is in the lack of a report on advance financial assistance under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" amounting to 14 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Madam Minister, what are the problems with the quoted project of Plovdiv Municipality? Is there a risk that financial corrections may be imposed for the whole project due to non-compliance with the deadlines? Is there a possibility for a new change in the final deadline for reporting the project?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u164	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Come in for an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, I would like to assure you that we are closely monitoring the deadlines for the implementation of the projects financed by the operational programmes that the Ministry manages. The specific municipality of Plovdiv is a beneficiary within the previous Programme of the measure for financing activities for integrated urban transport. The value of the project is 44.3 million. lv. I can assure you that the project has been successfully implemented. It shall be reported to the managing authority in accordance with the rules of the managing authority within the time limits provided for. At the moment, the managing authority is in a verification procedure so that by the end of April, as is our deadline, we can send it for certification and final reimbursement of the project costs, together with all other projects implemented under the operational programme, by the end of April. What you are referring to in the media and what you are quoting is the incorrect understanding of some of the requirements of the programme. Initially, as you said, the project was 36 months and it was running out. The municipality requested and received, as it was well motivated, an extension of the project. It was extended until 2 February 2016. This means that until 2 February 2016 the municipality had a commitment to submit its final payment together with all the supporting documents on the payments made, on the activities carried out and accordingly on their entry into service. This was done by the municipality. The deadline has been met. Further extension of the deadline will not be necessary and will not be necessary. What is quoted in relation to the other deadline for April 2nd is something different. Each municipality beneficiary, when submitting its request for final payment, must be accompanied by a record of an order which is two months after the deadline. As the deadline was February 2, recording an order from the Municipality of Plovdiv in favour of the Ministry and the Managing Authority had to have a deadline of 2 April 2016, but this was not in order to extend the deadline for submission of documents, and this is the period during which the request for final payment will be processed. During this period, the recording of an order in favour of the Ministry and of the Managing Authority shall be for the purpose of approving and completing the project and the advance payment granted under this project. All this is done. The papers are in order. As I said, the project has been successfully completed, the indicators are accounted for. The final document package shall be processed for its submission, closure and reimbursement by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u166	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. The line, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u167	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. It is important to me and to my fellow citizens that from this high tribune you have ensured that the project is accounted for by the rules, which means that financial corrections will not follow for the municipality of Plovdiv. The concerns that raised the question to you, this question, are really out of misunderstanding, but these were also the answers given by Plovdiv municipality. No one from the municipality of Plovdiv firmly and clearly said that the project was accounted for. On the contrary, until very recently it was claimed that an extension of the contract would be required. Anyway, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that this project for the municipality of Plovdiv should happen, there should be no financial corrections, because if this happens, it will be the second major project for the municipality, which will not be implemented during this programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u168	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. A hole, Madam Secretary? You're giving up. Question from MP Filip Stefanov Popov concerning the failure of the road Vidin "Bregovo." Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question is also from the Northwestern series I see that other colleagues have asked similar questions. That was also Mr. Mikov's question, which clearly speaks of the government's attitude towards the Northwest. My question is more precisely about the road "Bregovo," Vidin, which has fallen for more than a year in the villages of Inovo and Gumzovo. This is an international road, not to mention that Bregovo is also a bordered town. The border crossing has been built for many years with the Republic of Serbia. I repeat: it is part of an international road, creating prerequisites for road accidents. On the other hand, in Vidin region not only is Vidin cut off from the rest of Bulgaria, but also in the area citizens cannot freely move to the different municipalities. My question to you: when will the two sections of the road be repaired? I hope that some procedures have been carried out to begin repairing these failed sections, because when I go to Bregovo, I need to have a concrete and clear answer to this question and to say: the Minister said that within one, five, ten years they will be repaired.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u170	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! Undoubtedly the second-class road 26 km long from Vidin to Bregovo and respectively to the border is an important transport artery. Unfortunately, heavy rainfall last year resulted in failures and damage caused on this second-class road. At a second kilometer to a kilometer, we have compromised areas. I can assure you that the necessary view has been made by the staff of the Roads Service. A valuation has been made and specific measures have been provided for the restoration of this road section. A technological project has been prepared for this purpose. Its indicative value is about 300 thousand. lv. The funds are provided in the name list of the emergency programme of the Agency for Roads for this year and their implementation is due to begin in the coming weeks. I hope that they will be completed as soon as possible and that the road will be brought to the necessary state for safe passage into this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u172	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that once they have been able to carry out a survey in one year, within a few months they will be able to repair these sections as well. I hope that this action will happen by the end of the summer. I will address this as an answer to the citizens of Vidin, to the citizens of Bregovo and will remain to wait to see if these repairs will really take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u174	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Minister Pavlova is giving up the doppelganger. We enter into a procedure for a common answer to more than one question on one topic under art. 102, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the construction of a bypass of the town of Dimovo, Vidin district. The second question is from the MP Georgi Bojinov about the continuing delay in the construction of a new four-band road between Mezdra and Botevgrad. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question is about the construction of a bypass road in the town of Dimovo, Vidin district. Dear Minister, the construction of the bypass of the town of Dimovo is an important infrastructure project for the region of Vidin and is part of the European road E79. For this reason the project has been seriously discussed over the years, but unfortunately, it has not come to its realization. In 2015, I asked you a question about the possibilities for launching the project. Then you made a forecast that the start of the project can be expected in early 2016. At present, the situation on the road in Vidin district is even more severe than last year, of course, this is caused mainly by double the traffic of heavy goods vehicles travelling on European road E79 from Danube Bridge 2. This largely compromises the road pavement mainly in the villages of Skomlja, Medovnitsa, Bella and Ruzhintsi. I would also like to point out that now the existing road at the village of Bella is crossed by the railway line Vidin This state of the European road E79 in this section also determines an extremely low speed of movement and, as I have already mentioned, there are great dangers. I very much hope that this extremely important infrastructure project will be given priority in 2016 and that the administrative procedures will actually start and then, hopefully, the construction itself. In view of the tender given in 2014 for construction, approximately 13 million. BGN, I believe that this amount is not at all impossible for the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency. My specific question to you: Is it planned to provide funds for the construction of the bypass of the town of Dimovo in 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next question is from the MP Georgi Bojinov about the continuing delay in the construction of a new four-band road between Mezdra and Botevgrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u177	Which you also support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u178	With all my heart and soul.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u179	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, I do not find any serious and particular objective grounds for bringing our two issues together. Perhaps the answer will be the same that there is no money. I ask a question about the continuing delay of this extremely important road section, because in it is collected the entire stream of Danube bridge, from the ferry Oryahovo and the traffic of the three districts: Vidin The condition of the road is disturbing. It's not the pavement, it's the route itself that can't handle traffic anymore. There are two very heavy natural landslides for which you know how much money is needed to bypass the landslide and for these complex structures that restore the road. The third landslide is at the water supply of the hydroelectric power plant. Nothing you said earlier about forcing the owner to overcome the compromised right dike that destroys the road, the road, the pad on the other side, naturally, a landslide, is not happening. So the maintenance of this road is now becoming extremely expensive. You know very well that the government of Plamen Oresharski had foreseen in the Operational Program "Transport" the financing of a four-speed road from Vidin to Sofia, including this narrow section. Rosen Plevneliev's caretaker government changed this Operational Programme, removed this from the list of funded sites. You, when you ran for office, made another offer. We protested back then that this wasn't happening. The people chose you. What will you tell him today in fulfillment of what you promised and of what is absolutely necessary to happen, because traffic is becoming already dangerous, and when there are accidents and accidents, and impossible to surround this place? That's a very serious question. I expect an answer to the question: when will we find this road?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u180	Mr. Bojinov, you're 30 seconds behind schedule. I didn't interrupt you because this is an extremely important issue for the entire Northwest. Keep that in mind! Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Bojinov, with all the seriousness with which I can give this answer, I want to assure you that I understand the state of the road and the importance of the problems that need to be solved in two directions. On the one hand, these landslides are on the existing road, both on the main road and on the accompanying road that we talked about just now, as they are our commitment and must be strengthened within the capabilities of the Roads Agency, so that we can ensure the current traffic, which is moving along the Sofia direction, Vidin through Vratsa, Montana and Dimovo, to pass through the best possible conditions. On the other hand, it is undoubtedly important and necessary to make all the necessary efforts to build up........................................................is a matter of opportunities and financing, but.................................. Since you said the Oresharski government had predicted it, the Oresharski government never anticipated it and never made any effort on this project. You probably meant the government Stanishev, which should have foreseen it in the previous Operational Program, but never made it something concrete. What do I mean? This project, in order for it to happen, as any project, you are well aware, honourable Members of the National Assembly, must have its design readiness. The reason why the realization and construction of the section from Vratsa to Vidin of Sofia Motorway did not take place for so many years is that for this project there is no project readiness. All this is a necessary condition for a project to be part of any operational programme or to start its implementation and implementation. Nevertheless, I also believe that we should not politicize the subject, but we should find a way to build this project, as well as to build and build the highway "Hemus" all projects, projects and directions that are extremely important but also very expensive. The construction of the Sofia direction will cost Bulgarian citizens, all of us about 1 billion. BGN, but this is a very important investment in order to be able to be built in its entirety. The Sofia Directorate Vidin in its sections, which remains to be built, is divided into four sections: The division, if we start from the second bridge of Vidin: Vidin Dimovo; Dimovo, Ruzhintsi; Ruzhintsi, Montana until the beginning of the bypass road that we finished; Montana from the end of the bypass road to the bypass of Vratsa, which we finished. These are the four sections in which there is a different stage of progress and effort in the years, but what we have done in the last year is a few important things. Firstly, we have completed the activities related to the design and those related to EIA procedures. Unfortunately, however, the EIA procedures are being appealed and the EIA procedures have been appealed since January 15th this year, which was last held, has been appealed. Then we have an appeal issued and implemented in advance by the Ministry of Environment and Water, but this preliminary implementation of the EIA decision is also being appealed and this is the reason why we cannot proceed. When the appeals are completed, when the EIA decision on these sections enters into force, we will be able to move on to the next important step to finalising the preparation, to call it the Project for its realization, namely the validation of the parcel plans, the announcement of them to the citizens, in order to make the necessary alienation procedures along the entire route, and to be ready for concrete realization. The other sub-question that has been asked is specifically for the most problematic ones, I would say, in this direction section at the present time, which we also appreciate as the most problematic and most critical one, this is Dimovo's tour. The tour of Dimovo, as part of the overall Sofia "Vidin," is part of the project for the construction of the highway from Vratsa to Vidin in these four subdivisions, four lots, which I said at the moment, and for it we have a corresponding design for the passage and route of this tour of Dimovo. So, as part of all the efforts, the entry into force of the EIA, the carrying out of alienations will enable us to have a ready and complete project. If we do not have funding for all sub-units to start at the same time, our proposal and expert solution is to start precisely from Dimovo's tour, because the section there is the most heavy and the busiest. Mr. Bozhinov, you have asked about the other alternative approach proposed within the team of Mr. Oresharski's previous government. This is an alternative approach and is not part of this project, which I just mentioned, namely the Vratsa direction It's a different alternate approach. I think that you, too, Mr. Ivanov, will agree with me that there is no reason to make two tours of Dimovo one now for 13 million, which does not coincide with the gauges, does not coincide with the track and is different from the course of the overall Vratsa direction, and when we have full design readiness, to make a second round of Vidin or to try for some unknown what, perhaps without clarity how to attach it to this direction. That's first. Secondly, for this alternative different perimeter of Dimovo, part of the highway direction of the section, there are also no procedures for alienation, PSU and EIA. This is also the reason why, instead of wasting double efforts and they are in the wind, to make a small alternative approach to Dimovo, our efforts are aimed at completing the EIA procedure, to do the necessary activities to alienate the route of the highway section of the Vratsa direction, Vidin, so that we can have a design readiness and begin the gradual construction, starting precisely with Dimovo's approach as the most important and most critical section of this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u182	Perhaps in the line you will comment on the question Mezdra "Botevgrad"? Let's hear lines if there are any. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam Minister, I share in part what you said, and I am partly satisfied with your answer, but I will also ask the most important question: when in time is this expected to happen? Everything is as good as a wish. Yes, I agree that two tours should not be made, but once again I would like to remind you that the situation on the ground is extremely heavy in a coin. There are practically no higher speeds than 40 50 km per hour in the entire section of Dimovo to Ruzhintsi, and it is not at all small as kilometers. In this regard, I ask you to comment on some forecast timing when in time this would be possible because the people in Vidin are primarily interested in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u184	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, you were short and correct, specific. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov. I hope you'll fit in as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u185	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, a brief matter. First of all, on the problem of Dimovo, because I monitor the parliamentary control system and carefully, there is nothing new in the answer to the question about Dimovo since Mr Popov put the same question several times for this time. As far as my questions are concerned, I shall begin in the order in which you answered. Madam Minister, these landslides will cost us more and more expensive. They are the result of the harmful effects of the water and this harmful effect will increase because the practice of those people who called them cantoners has been discontinued in Bulgaria for a long time. Since this practice has been removed, this harmful effect will cost us very dearly not only on this road section but also on many others. Think about this practice. As far as the road itself is concerned, when it started. It is true that the government of Stanishev took it as a priority, the government of Oresharski continued, and in order to start the real spending of funds for design, work projects and alienation, it was included in the Operational Programme. He was taken out of the service government. When we protested, we were answered that we would find another way to finance. I ask you, is there a solution, or is it not? If there is no such road, there will be no road, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to fulfil the purpose given to it by the national road infrastructure network. The matter remains open, and we must find a solution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me 20 more seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u186	Thank you, too. For the coat, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov, Mr. Ivanov! I'll start with the deadlines you asked me about. It is difficult for me to say a specific deadline for the simple reason that I cannot determine when the appeal will end. Following the completion of the appeals in the Supreme Administrative Court and the entry into force of the EIA entry, this will enable us to immediately move on to the next step that I mentioned, namely the process of the detailed planning, the parcel plans, their approval in order to be carried out, according to the Law on Structure in the Area procedures, to be subsequently alienated the terrains, which must be alienated for the construction of these directions, not only for the tour of Dimovo, I refer to the whole section, as we have prioritized the tour of Dimovo as a section from which to start. I failed to answer your previous question regarding the Mezdra-Botevgrad precinct, as it has, I would say, the best project readiness. The Mezdra division "Botevgrad" has an indicative value of about 250 million. BGN, it is divided into two lotts, one of which is 19 km. This is the first section for which we have developed an idea project. For the second section of 14 km we have a technical project, so we have the best ready there and this is the only section for which EIA has entered into force. What we are working on are the other three sub-dimovo and the other sections for which we should and I hope that we will be able to reach this stage so that we can at once perform the alienation procedures. With regard to funding, we can certainly go back a lot, I have been working in the system of European funds and operational programmes for 15 years, so I can argue with you which government put what where and took it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u188	We're not gonna argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u189	I want to tell you: it is important who will do the job, it is important who makes the design, alienation and who will do what is necessary for this project to happen and, believe me, our efforts are precisely in this direction and we are extremely not only well-intentioned, but we are making this possible because we realize how important it is for Northwestern Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u190	That's why we're asking ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u191	Funds from the European funds, as I answered earlier today, unfortunately, there is no money. Europe no longer gives money for roads. For the entire seven-year period, we have 600 million. Euros and they will only be enough for us to finish one Lot of Struma. Therefore, our efforts are directed by budget funds or funds from the European Investment Bank. This site, as well as other priority directions, we have included them and proposed them in the future programme "European transit corridors" as a natural continuation of the existing and currently programme "European transit roads 5" with the support of the European Investment Bank. I hope that we will receive support from 2017 to finance whether it is specific for this project, whether it is like the whole programme for the It is with a special focus and a top priority that is Northwestern Bulgaria. Once again, I confirm that these two priority directions are extremely important to us. Undoubtedly, the highway is priority No 1, but also the Vratsa direction Vidin, so the efforts are made to have a good project readiness for when we have funding, to have a ready project and to start their realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Mr. Manol Genov on the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, our question is about the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. In 2015, the widely promoted National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings is with a total budget of 1 billion. lv. and precisely defined criteria for its implementation. According to accepted methodical guidelines under the National Program, it began to be implemented. In connection with the ongoing implementation of the programme, please reply to me: have any changes been made to the methodological guidelines of the National Programme which substantially alter the initial objective, namely the overall and qualitative renovation of the multi-family residential buildings of the approved candidates? If so, for what purpose is this done and will it have an impact on the procedures already in place for the execution of individual objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Genov, Dear Mr. Ivanov! As regards the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings, I would like to assure you that the priorities and objectives of the programme remain the same. I am glad that despite the extremely negative anti-campaign that has been held over the past year since we implemented this programme, the interest in it has increased. We have successfully completed buildings on the territory of several municipalities. We have over 2,000 buildings that are in the process of implementation under the programme.. each of them at different stages of implementation. What you are referring to is perhaps the amendments to the programme that were made in the decision of the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the amendments that we have made in the indicative reference values that have been applied for the purposes of uniformising the financial resources and better efficient and efficient use of these state funds, which are invested in the private and not public building fund. I'll start with the changes in the program. The changes in the programme aim at two main things - one change aims at better control at all levels in the country, regional managers, municipalities, investor control of the implementation of the programme, to ensure that the activities, measures that are carried out on buildings, first, are quality, but secondly, meet the requirements of the programme. The second amendment concerns the reduction of indicative reference values to which municipalities must adhere as contracting entities for the selection of programme contractors. However, reducing these reference values will in no way damage the implementation of energy efficiency measures that have been determined for each building individually on the basis of an energy audit by licensed auditors. The objectives of the reduced funds are actually several. Firstly, we have seen that indicative values initially announced under the programme are high enough and we actually have savings from funds. The procedures carried out showed that the values could be lower. The second is that 156 buildings were built for energy efficiency and successfully completed in 2015, funded by the Program Regional Development of Energy Efficiency of Bulgarian Buildings. All of these 156 buildings have been successfully completed and put into operation. The average reference values are even lower than those reduced, which you are referring to, which once again proves that we will not have damaged buildings, there will be no problem that the measures envisaged for the energy efficiency of these buildings will be implemented. The only thing that needs to be an object and will be, and is subject to our serious control, these are the measures for constructive strengthening of buildings, as they are different from energy efficiency measures. What we have seen, and that is why we have reduced the scope of funding under the programme, is that instead of the main objective and focus of the programme, namely energy efficiency, renovation, roof repairs, replacement of insulation, replacement of windows of these buildings, we have seen a staggering in the main and current renovation of these buildings. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is the commitment of the owners of these buildings. In the programme we finance constructive strengthening where buildings are threatened or constructively unstable, but not current renovations of the building, with a major focus on energy efficiency measures, the value of which, again I say, is good enough to be able to be done in a qualitative and good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u196	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Mr. Genov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u197	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. This methodology and these guidelines, I think, have changed twice. From this tribune we and a colleague then gave you advice to expand the scope of the program. Indeed, after that, the methodological guidelines that were changed included buildings with a wider, so to speak, spectrum of structures within the buildings themselves. It is very good that no spending is allowed, the indicative values were quite high and increased. Here you have really completely transferred responsibility to the municipalities for quality control, because ultimately no one doubts that the Ministry has such administrative capacity to control this thing because the lack of capacity is seen in the other programme, which will remain for then, in my other question. Thank you for your answer, though.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u198	Thank you, Mr. Genov. A hole? You don't want to. There is a question for you from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev about the dangerous road facilities in Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Ananiev, to develop the thesis on dangerous road facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u199	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! On January 25th of this year, we witnessed another incident that caused the fatal condition of a road facility. It's about the accident at the highway of Hemus, where a concrete plate snapped and wounded a man in a moving vehicle. In October last year, three people were killed in the tunnel, as you know, in an unprecedented car accident, and more than 20 people were injured. There is still no clarity and final expert version of the reasons that led to this tragic accident, but everyone who travels through the tunnel often sees that the problems are low lighting, the dark color of the walls, the bad insulation, the tunnel itself is soaked, leaking. In this regard, I ask five questions to you, which are: - Since when is the last prepared report describing the number and condition of dangerous road facilities? - What is the conclusion of this report? - What is the number of road facilities in Bulgaria that are assessed as dangerous? - Is there financial provision in the budget of the MRB for repair of dangerous road facilities? - What financial resource is planned to be allocated for repair of dangerous road facilities in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Madam Minister, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u201	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, the issue related to the state and maintenance of the facilities on the Republican Road Network is extremely important and responsible. It is the responsibility of the Road Agency to monitor and walk all facilities on a daily basis, especially those of them in poor condition, and those of them we are aware of needing repairs. At the Roads Agency we have more, including from the previous term, I confirm, developed such a programme and analysis of the facilities that need ongoing repairs, those that need preventive and those that need urgent or urgent repairs, in order to improve their quality and characteristics. This programme and this analysis is constantly updated and within the framework of the budget available to API, the most avarial and most critical are repaired, albeit partially. That's the current condition. For the lasting, comprehensive resolution of this issue, the funds that are needed are a significant amount. I'll start with the facilities. According to this report, all facilities located on the 20 thousand kilometers of Republican roads in charge of which API is responsible 440 are facilities that need repair activities. Of these 270 are actually those for which more serious investments are needed, which are urgent, to call it repairs of parts of them. Apart from that, the most general repairs, I can say, of course, are connected on the one hand with drainage, marking, flooring, canvases, insulation of the facilities and so on. I use this case to remind you that last year, when 100 million were granted by the government by means of an additional decree of the Council of Ministers, one part of these facilities along the highway of Trakia and the motorway of Hemus was renovated, such as one sail, one direction of Eleshnitsa, as well as a series of several facilities on the highway of Trakia, so this enabled a small part of the facilities to be repaired and put into the necessary condition. Part of the measures included replacement of insulation, replacement of the foundations of large viaducts and facilities. With regard to the tunnels that you have mentioned, particularly "Vitignia" but not only "Vitynya" but "Toply dol" and "Echemishka" are tunnels that certainly need repairing and repairing, in which to bring them according to the requirements and conditions of Regulation No 1 for tunnel safety. Yes, unfortunately, I can confirm that they do not fully meet the requirements of Regulation No 1 for tunnel safety. What do I mean? No major repairs have been carried out in these tunnel facilities for more than 30 years. Several are the main directions of the necessary repairs in these tunnels. First and foremost is drainage, because in these tunnels we have serious drainage and moisturizing of the isolations, a complete replacement of the isolations. This long-standing non-repair has led to this condition that the rewetting and leaks present in these tunnels have partially compromised the lighting. That's the reason why these tunnels are in places where lights don't work. It's not because we don't change the bulbs, we change them every time a lamp burns. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and the reason is that we should actually have a complete replacement and isolation of the electrical system, of the fire alarm systems and fire safety of these tunnels, of course, and the accompanying activities of the emergency tunnel exit systems, replacement of the marking, re-asphalting and so on. For the most urgent of them, the indicative value for tunnels and facilities is about 250 million. BGN, which are necessary to fix the most urgent tunnels and facilities of the highways, respectively outside the tunnels and facilities, which are on the other sections of the Republican road network. We have some minor repairs that we can afford in the API budget, but we are waiting for a good budget implementation, with additional targeted funding from the Council of Ministers, to receive in the summer of this year at least one part of these most necessary and most urgent 250 million s to start with some of the tunnels, viaducts or facilities [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and gradually begin to bring them in line with the requirements of Regulation No 1, and the safety requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u202	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. I've played you a little bit more since you usually save your coats. Here's a line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u203	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. What bothers me is that you say tunnels are a problem. There was also the crash there, but as I hear, nothing has yet been claimed to fix the tunnel. I am also responsible for Smolyan as an area. Very often I travel between Asenovgrad and Plovdiv. You know the three tunnels that are there. I can tell you that in none of the three there is absolutely no lighting at all, there is no light at all, there is just no light! I understand that we need the means to do this. I'm guessing there's one in the MRB budget for urgent repairs, and after this incident in Vitina... Yeah, one of my questions was how much money do you have in the budget? I suppose you should have at least some.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u204	I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u205	Because when accidents happen, this is not acceptable to me, first of all, because of the facilities themselves, but they become the cause of road accidents in fact. Road safety is key to the status of the marking, the state of the infrastructure. I know a lot of traffic accidents happen because of a state of the road and because of the state of the road network. Of course, in some cases it is about API, in another case it may be about the municipality or the local authority responsible for the road. But in my opinion, the urgent repairs, especially the key tunnels that you three mentioned, are of national strategic importance. For me, it must be very urgent that a resource is directed there so that they do not create prerequisites for other such accidents that would endanger the lives of all road users. So I hope that many urgent measures will be taken in this direction by the Council of Ministers, which... Apparently, he thinks he's a target relaxer, but June is a little far away for me, because it's March, and we know when the disaster itself happened. I'm hoping for some quick measures in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u207	Dear Mr. Ananiev, I am taking advantage of the backdrop because I would like to clarify two important facts. First, as regards Plovdiv, asenovgrad, the tunnels that you mentioned, yes, I meant them. We added them as an annex to the existing contract for repair and rehabilitation of the road Plovdiv "Assenovgrad," so the two tunnels will be repaired, including the lighting on them. The deadline expires accordingly in October this year as part of the completion of the rehabilitation. So this is going to be fixed, and for there we have secured funding. With regard to Vitinya, I would very much like to distinguish between the case with the accident in Vitinya and the measures necessary for the repair and adaptation of both Vitinya and the others, viaducts and facilities according to the safety requirements. Vitinya's accident in accordance with the checks that have been carried out is not due to the condition of the tunnel as such. The accident is related to inadequate speed, wet pavement and accordingly non-compliance with the distance. On exiting the tunnel on the other side of the tunnel, there is a fog that is so dense that therefore causes the sudden braking and from there the chain crash. It has nothing to do with Vitina's condition. Not that it's good, but we need to distinguish Vitina's condition and the accident that took place. And these tunnels are really of national importance, and security on them is very important. But with the existing budget that API has, it's enough for minor landslide repairs and other emergency costs. For these tunnels that I'm talking about only about Vitina and the others, we need over 80 million. API's entire budget for the whole country, for all roads, for overall rehabilitation is about that much, so there is no way to separate from the budget. That's why I told you I was counting on a target... And I want it to be now. The sooner these funds are granted, the sooner we will begin repairing the tunnels and viaducts. We have this readiness, but we must respect the possibilities and revenues in the budget. So the sooner we have this opportunity, the sooner we start. But it's all about opportunities and budget and prioritization of expenditure in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u208	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. The next question has been transformed into written by the gentlemen Dimitrov and Slavov. We are moving on to a matter of the MP Mr. Manol Genov. It is related to the implementation of the project BG161........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You also had a written answer. You wish to receive now and oral. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u209	Dear Minister, the project "Energy renovation of Bulgarian homes under the OP started in 2012. Since then, requirements have been changed to the associations of owners who wanted to participate in the Programme. How many European funds have been used on this project so far, and how many buildings have been completed so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u210	Thank you, too. Please come in for a concentrated response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u211	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I have already answered this question in writing, so I will answer very briefly once again orally to confirm what I have also said in the written question. Within the framework of the Regional Development Program 2007 "2013" in 2012 we started the project for the renovation of Bulgarian homes. When we started it, we started it within the requirements of the Programme " 75% grant from the Programme," 25% own contribution. In the beginning, the Programme started at a slower pace, given its own self-participation, which should have given those willing to join the Programme. I am using this case to say once again, and not by political abuse and malice, but let us not forget that the Programme has been completely suspended and frozen and projects, and applications have been suspended in 2014. What we did when entering a mandate at the end of 2014. The National Program was launched in 2015. The national programme includes 100% free funding and therefore, in order to have equal treatment, we added and provided for the European funding programme to pay these 25% from the state budget in order to have 100% secured funding. Thanks to this decision, the candidates for funding increased dramatically in two months and became 299 applications. But the program, as you know, was leaking at the end of last year, so we had literally nine months to realize a maximum number of these buildings. I am pleased and would like to thank the team of the Ministry and everyone who worked because they managed to implement and successfully complete 156 buildings and fully absorb resources of 28 million. lv. on the program. It was originally bigger, but I want to assure you: it was not lost, it was re-launched to other pending projects approved under the Programme and underfunded. So there's no lost money. And the funds allocated to the project are successfully invested in a successfully completed 156 buildings. For the other buildings, we did an energy audit, technical projects and can be financed on both lines... under the new Operational Programme............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u212	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you go. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u213	I only have one more question. A moment ago you said that of the remaining 22 million out of 50, which were originally planned, 28 were spent, 22 were redocumented in the same program or somewhere else? That's my question. And one more question: I know an association of owners who collected 25% of their accomplice three years ago. These people have been waiting three years for something to start. In 2014 the framework contracts were made, nothing happened, and the Programme changed. These people are still waiting. Is there a ministry mechanism, even though these things are being controlled, organised by municipalities, at least these 143 or, as I said, 137 remaining associations of owners, to be in any way primarily included in the programmes of municipalities? And if there is such a mechanism, can you make it happen by interrogating the municipalities, because it is difficult to order them, we know that they are independent in their rule. But at least those people who had the good intentions with their complicity to sanitize their buildings would be given any advantage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u214	Thank you. Here's your coat, dear Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, what I just said is precisely this: these projects, which remained with the project readiness due to the expired period of the Programme, we have provided them to the municipalities so that they can prioritize them, and if they are beneficiaries in the respective Municipality of So my answer is yes, that is exactly what we did with this decision. With regard to these associations of owners that you have said, give me concretely what is the association so that we can see if we can cooperate because of the data that I have so far, the associations that have given these funds have been able to get them back. If any, I am, of course, willing to cooperate with them to get their funding back. And on the third sub-question you asked, the remaining 22 are reinvested back, according to the rules of European funding. They can be reinvested back with projects approved under the Programme, but not under the same priority axis. That's the rule. These 22 million were re-documented in approved renegotiated projects under Priority Axis 1 "City development" to complete Phase 2 of urban development projects in the 86 major and medium-sized cities in the country's territory, successfully acquired and paid off to 100% last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u216	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Mr. Ermenkov, I see you can't wait to ask your question. It is about the funds provided for the road in 2016 for Sliven Ichera. It's a road I think is a rally going on. Now let's see what his condition is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, I am not eager to ask a question, but I think citizens of Sliven are eager to make their way better. That's why I've put this issue as an up-to-date a long time ago, over a month ago, two months ago, it's gonna happen. Otherwise, for the first time since last year, as the exhibit has written, the Sliven road has been closed for several months because of a landslide. That's not news. This forces travelers to extend the road by about 40 kilometers in one direction. And in your last reply from September last year, Madam Minister, you said you could not fix it this time, because there was no provision in the budget for its recovery, and this event happened after the adoption of the budget. Since the beginning of the year, new wine prices have been introduced again at your initiative, which have been increased quite dramatically. In this regard, I would like to be informed whether, as a result of the new prices of the wineries leading to greater revenue in the 2016 budget, funds for restoring traffic along the Sliven route are provided for? And when appropriate measures will be taken to prevent residents of the area from having to pay a high fee to the wineries and, on the other hand, to reduce their travel costs. I hope you heard me, because I see you're getting distracted. [[Mister Lilyana Pavlova spoke with MP Ivan Ivanov.]] Yeah, they're distracting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u218	I heard you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u219	I understand that perhaps one of the measurements of the price of the wineries will be to share the price of the wineries per mile, but I think that this is not the right way to say that they are effective. So let's cut people's paths short and hopefully you can now at least answer me with specific deadlines and dates when this will happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u220	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u221	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, yes, as I confirmed last year, we did not have the opportunity and willingness to finance this landslide on this road Sliven Ichera, but we did what was necessary to conduct a public procurement procedure for the selection of a contractor to do the research activities to present us with the technology project and the way in which to strengthen this landslide. It's all done. It was presented to the Expert Council in December last year and it was validated, respectively the technology project was adopted by the API, with the indicative value of the activities related to the construction and installation activities being 2 million. $700,000. lv. This project is set in the API emergency program, which will be able to start realization this year. There's only one problem that's come up. It is technically and I hope that the experts can resolve it as quickly as possible. It turned out, but these are many cases and you know in the years back that on the current cadastral map this time it was not applied and does not exist. This time it's actually reflected on the map as agricultural land. So now we will need that long procedure through the Ministry of Agriculture to amend the map of restored property so that the purpose of this land from agricultural land can be changed on a road that is already existing anyway so that after the completion of this procedure and the proper application of the path in the cadastral map can be issued and the recovery of the activities can be entrusted. But the funds are in the emergency program so that this can happen in the coming months, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u222	Thank you. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u223	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am satisfied with this answer at 50%, because the job is done at 50%. Not in that sense, if you know what 100 is and what 50% is, but in the real sense of the work done. I very much hope that at least some of the disgusting works that are related to work on strengthening not the road, but to call it conditional levels, as you said, can be started now to move things in parallel. Because the procedure for changing the purpose of the land concerned, for putting it into actual condition, so that the actual condition corresponds to the cadastral, is indeed a long procedure. People are not to blame for not being assigned to the relevant cadastral map this time, and I hope that you will indeed take the necessary measures to speed up the procedure and not for its delay due to the bureaucratic requirements of the relevant law and the relevant provisions. Indeed, it is not pleasant for anyone to make huge tours, traveling on business or personal matters, knowing that there is money, knowing that there is a ready project, knowing that the work, if it starts to be done, will be done for no more than three months, I suppose, knowing what the condition is, will be so much technological time to complete and because of bureaucratic obstacles this work will not be done. If this happens, it does not give a good impression of state management or a good impression of statehood, so I ask you very much, take this matter to heart and nothing that it is not in your office as a prerogative to carry it out, do the appropriate control so that these actions can be accelerated and that the work is done at least somewhere in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are you going to use a hole? No. We move on to the next question by the MPs Dobrin Danev and Ms Mariana Boyadjieva on the design of the highway Ruse Mrs. Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We all know that the road Ruse is the busiest road with the highest number of accidents, injured and killed citizens as a result of the extremely intensive traffic of cars, heavy vehicles and the low traffic opportunity of this section. Citizens in the region of Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo, who live along this road, and travelers on it are constantly under stress for a subsequent traffic accident, including severe cases of injured and killed citizens. At the end of 2014, funds of 1 million were invested in the Road Infrastructure Agency. lv. for the design of this road. The experts' confidence was that in 2015 the design of a highway road would be done. Our question to you, Madam Minister, is: how far has the design of the road of Ruse come to? And what are the views and opportunities for financing and building this important road for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. I would also add to Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u227	And for Europe, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u228	Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Danev, as we spoke with you at the Ministry's working meeting with all MPs from the Ruse region, I confirm to date the progress on the work of this extremely important road, the direction of the European corridor in which huge traffic is realized, but, unfortunately, White's approach as part of it and the passage through Byala are extremely important, as it is precisely the passage of Byala that is the section with the highest concentration of road accidents, with the most dead on the road. To date, I can say that the selected contractor has completed the first phase of its project. At a special meeting of a design team were presented the four options that were proposed initially, for crossing the whole direction, which is about 120 km from Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo, the connection with the Hainboaz Pass and the future connection with the road hub of the future highway. These four options were initially considered and an optimal version of a route was chosen from them to be finally proposed, completed, valued as part of the completion of phase 1 of the project. The overall idea project with the specific coordinate points of passage at the end of February was provided to all districts and municipalities, through which the territory passes from Ruse to Veliko Tarnovo. In general, the road route includes an eastern perimeter of Ruse, as part of which the traffic from the industrial zone can be taken, goes on to a new route, which will now make a western perimeter of Byala, as the heavier, most complex stretch is precisely the high-mountain passage that should be made at Byala. Therefore, the proposed as the most optimal option is a western tour of Byala; down the road to Veliko Tarnovo, the future road node, which is now being redesigned so it can be a little closer to Veliko Tarnovo 15 km from Veliko Tarnovo; down the road continues as a natural connection with the road node and its inclusion in the Passage of the Republic of Hainboaz. That's the general thing. Of course, the parameters of the road have them, they are provided to the municipalities of residence. I am ready to provide them to you as a project route. From now on, a public discussion must be made with all the people concerned, the residents working along the route, who will benefit from this road in order to be able to agree with the citizens this future route. The next phase of this project, once this idea design has been validated, includes the environmental impact assessment procedure, which is also extremely important, as part of the project, public discussions within the framework of this public procurement, so that, after the adoption of the EIA, the detailed development plan, the parcel plan can be established, and proceed to the estrangement procedures. Depending on the selected parameters of the project, depending on the selected terrain on which it will be built, the value of the project varies between 450 and 600 million. EUR for the entire length of the track, as this is a complex section, which, I repeat, involves a number of facilities, crossings into this complex, heavy area. The final value will be able to say only when all the procedures that I mentioned are completed and which are underway at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u230	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. A line? Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u231	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Thanks for the answer. First of all, I am pleased that we unanimously found that the road Ruse is a road with the most intensive movement in the country and the highest concentration of accidents. The black statistic that I wanted to read to you and that you know, maybe I shouldn't say it, but in the last ten days, there have been several accidents with three people killed and so many more injured, which very seriously worried the public from the Tarnovski and Ruse region. When something similar happens, residents of the municipalities Byala, Borovo, Two mounds, Ivanovo, Ruse with a very special feeling expect to hear who will be the next victim. Since more than 20 years have been spoken about this time, and nothing is being done about it in the last 2 years, it is good for the public to know what stage the design is in. What we have heard satisfies us and I hope that the deadlines you have taken will be fulfilled. If you can, in the back, say if there is any view of funding, as the design and all procedures are clear, they will be implemented, but without funding in the next two years, if it is not secured, we will not have this path that is craved by both areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u232	Thank you, Mr. Danev. You're disowning your right to dodge. I was informed by the National Representative Borislav Iglev that he took advantage of his right to put off his question, and he is concerned about problems with the Motorway. We move on to a question from the National Representative Durhan Mustafa concerning the repair of a section of road III-7305 Unite Vresovo, from km 7+300 to km 26+590, on the territory of the municipality of Rouen. Mr. Mustafa patiently waited for the end of today. You have three questions that are foreseen, but the time will only be enough for the first. You have the floor, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to save time, I would ask, because one of the issues has been developed, to move on to the second. Maybe I could unite them into one, if you'll let me. I'll be in time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u234	Minister Pavlova herself expressed a desire to answer the questions as much as possible. I'm understanding. Let it be in the Rules of Procedure. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u235	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! My first question, asked a month ago, is on the implementation of repair activities on road 7305 United "Vresovo." The condition of this road is extremely bad. To save time, I won't describe it. My question was: do you foresee a comprehensive rehabilitation for the current 2016 year? I will point out that we are already working on this road, for which I would like to convey to you the thanks of the residents of this locality. My question is: is there an overall rehabilitation of the entire segment envisaged and, if you can tell me, what deadlines? The second question. At my meetings, it is about the road Rouen Prosenik, with the inhabitants of the municipality of Rouen and hoteliers from the resort complex Sunny Beach. I was asked the question about the condition of road III-2085. It is of particular importance as the section has a very intensive movement. This is the only way that buses carry workers from the municipality to sea resorts. In recent years rural tourism has also increased. The above road is in a particularly bad condition, in the Rouen section. In 2015, I asked you the same question. At the time, minimal funds were allocated, with which surface repairs were carried out. Repair works with laying solid asphalt concrete have not been carried out in the last 20 years. In this regard, my question to you is: do you provide for more serious funding for the current 2016 year in order to carry out more quality repairs to improve the condition of the above road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u236	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mustafa! I start with the first question regarding the repair of the road. It, as well as the first section, which was already executed from km 0 to km seven in the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare, were included at Lot 4 of our Programme. The first precinct ended last year. What I can confirm about the second subdivision you ask me about, 19 kilometers long, which passes through the territory of Sungurlare and Rouen, and in particular from kilometers seven to kilometers 26 with the corresponding kilometers, is included, we have a selected contractor, we have an open construction site, but within the winter period it is forbidden to perform specific construction works, so the site is made only preparation and cleaning. The activities will be restored now, with the start of the construction season, and at the latest, I hope, by the end of October, this site will be fully completed, fully rehabilitated. We have funds in the budget, so this project at this stage I see no reason not to be completed successfully. With regard to the second section and the second question you are asking, this is the third-class Rouen route. I told you that in the past year, although few, funds have been provided under the Programme. The analysis of this direction shows that for its overall re-asphalting and bringing in a good operational state, the necessary funds are over 6 million. lv. That is why we will not be able to secure the entire amount. We will make the priority review of the entire Republican network after the end of the season, as we always do in April, May and June. The worst state of events prioritize them and with them we will start activities within the limits of the available budget opportunities for ongoing repair and maintenance of regional road management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u238	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Mustafa, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u239	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to take my time for the second time Rouen Prosenik. He's been compromised this time. No repairs have been done there for 20 years. It's a very difficult situation. The workers who serve the complex "Sunchev bryag" is one section of 45 kilometers away in two hours. I stressed before that in many of my meetings hoteliers also insist that it be built this time. In a moment, I'm going to introduce you to a petition that was collected by mayors. I would like to stress that the issue is not political at all, because there are mayors from GERB, two independent and one mayor from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I was informed that the discontent of the people is very great and are currently preparing protests that would compromise the start of the tourist season in this complex. Therefore, I ask you, despite the limited resources, to pay attention and to help the resources allocated to be much more than last year, because what was set aside as a budget, as funds, was extremely insufficient. I am convinced that you can help, for which I thank you in advance. [[Passing documents to Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-25.u240	Mr. Mustafa, thank you. I heard from Minister Pavlova that he won't use the right to the back. Perhaps the documents he receives will be developed in a period. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control. Before closing the meeting, I shall announce the next regular plenary session on 30 March 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
