ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, after the Conference of Presidents earlier today, we offer to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for 27 and 28 April 2016: 1. The mandate of the Member of the National Assembly is resigned from the National Representative Irena Kotseva on 22 April 2016. 2. Selection of members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly. The selection procedure is in accordance with a decision of the National Assembly adopted on 8 April 2016. 3. Project for a decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for award with the Order of the Old Mountains. Importers - Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. A joint draft, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs, based on the laws adopted at the first vote on 10 March 2016 with importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs; Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, two drafts; Miho Mihov and a group of MPs; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs from yesterday. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importers sveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories. Honourable Members of Parliament, the unanimous proposal of the fellow Members who participated in the Conference of Presidents earlier today is to continue the meeting today until 1900 with an interruption of one hour between 14:00 and 15:00 when the Standing Committees meetings already announced. I put to the vote the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly at the time of the meeting with a starting time of 9.00 and a closing time of 19.00 and a fixed rest between 14.00 and 15.00. Vote 158 MPs: 130 against 13, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has received a proposal from Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, who proposes as an item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period from 27 to 28 April 2016 to include a draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the Center for Urban Mobility (CSC) Sofia, No 654-02-35 of 26 April 2016. As is clear from the number, the draft decision was submitted on yesterday at 17.53 pm and was accordingly allocated by me by Order No 650-01-148 of 26 April 2016 to the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is why the request for inclusion in today's programme is inadmissible. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to express your satisfaction with your rapid reaction, Madam President, to immediately allocate this to us a proposal for the Court of Auditors' audit. I consider this to be an expression of your intention this time to really support this proposal. I would like to say that, on several occasions, we propose that the Court of Auditors carry out an audit of the activities of the Centre for Urban Mobility, and it seems to me that if the National Assembly had supported this proposal, we would not have witnessed all this history and scandals running in this company. As for the great socio-economic importance and the suspicions of abuse on it, we have put them in the motives and I hope that in the debate in plenary we will have the opportunity to develop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take a procedure in the manner of conduct and disagree with the fact that you do not include our proposal on the agenda, because yesterday at 12.30 in the middle of the night we witnessed how you, today during a discussion of the CEM, will hold an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, so that you can discuss a proposal that your party president has negotiated with the coalition partners so that it can pass today and we can vote on it during the election code. With the same success could have been held at the other committee, where you have distributed things so that tomorrow at a convenient time this issue could be dealt with. Madam President, when the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors do not address issues of public interest but examines them on television, the results are clear. GERB you have reduced your management bodies to seven people, one deputy mayor, in a few minutes we will vote one MP and five members of the Management Board of the Centre for Urban Mobility. So be careful what you do, not to be left without members and executives! Thank you. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u5	Mr. Ermenkov, I have listened very patiently to you. Your statement had claims so it was claimed that it was a procedure in the manner of conduct. I didn't understand any connection to your first few sentences. It is true that the meeting lasted late that night, but I hope we did not dream in the hall, Mr. Ermenkov. What you said has nothing to do with the procedure that has developed. You didn't follow and you didn't come in at the end of the extraordinary plenary session. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 20 to 26 April this year: - A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead; - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - A bill to wear clothing, concealing or concealing the face. Importers: Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, as well as to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - Bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall lead, with the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - A bill to supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Special Bets. Importer: Council of Ministers. Distribution to be made; - A bill to amend and supplement the Private Security Act. Importers: Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers: Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - Project for a decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the Center for Urban Mobility. Exporters: Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015. Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Colleagues, we're going to point one: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. With a letter in my letter. No 654-00-72 of 22 April 2016 has been applied by Irena Ivanova Kotseva. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the 43rd National Assembly. Please suspend my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Respectfully: Irena Kotseva, MP. I offer to your attention a draft decision to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Irena Ivanova Kotseva's authority as a MP from the Twenty-Sixth Election Region. Colleagues, speeches? First Mr. Ermenkov, then Mr. Velizar Enchev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, we are making a decision which should in principle be a formal act of the National Assembly applying for its release from its powers as a Member of the National Assembly and we should vote on this perhaps without discussion. This would be so if there were not a few circumstances surrounding this act that somehow remind other acts that have acted in the same way. When a Member of the National Assembly considers that he cannot perform his duties and resigns himself, it is one thing and another when he resigns when another orders him to do so. Moreover, when someone ordered to do so, because, can you imagine, the husband of this MP was drinking coffee with a deputy mayor. Here I can think of that saying that sounded like this: "What is allowed to Zeus is not allowed to the bull." I mean, the chairman of your party can play tennis with a variety of business partners who win multimillion-dollar orders, but the husband of a MP can't drink coffee with a deputy mayor because of some 300-400 thousand. lv. I think that's kind of insane behavior. It is also insane the way in which this MP is forced to resign. After all, we are in a parliamentary republic today. The President of your party, although prime minister, should not be the ruler of its lawmakers, although in his speech recently he said: "I have made you MPs. Be careful what happens next time. You may not be MPs. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's one of the ways he proves it to you. In fact, I see here in the front row the ruler of the votes and I ask myself what will happen if he decides not to be prime minister. Wouldn't the boat turn around a little bit? [[Laughter, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u7	Mr. Ermenkov, the personal and structural composition of the Council of Ministers is not the subject of the debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u8	I ask you very much, Madam President, this is an act that is not of its own volition, but has been announced in advance by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, so there is no way that I will not affect it. Visiblely this man today proves once again that when there is a rebellion on the ship, he makes every effort to put this rebellion to rest. This man has clearly read books not only about Indians, but also about pirates, because this is how riots are stopped: catch the rebel sailor and hang him on the rail. This is happening today. [[Laughter, excitement.]] I beg you very much: let us not be such gullibles and think that Mrs. Irena Kotseva, very worried that her husband was drinking coffee, is resigning. Again, all this is an attempt to impose on you, not to say yoke, but to impose shackles on your free will as MPs. In that regard, I would also like to say something else. Madam President, listen to me until the end. I don't know why anyone who goes out on this stage lately is dealing with our convention. We have brought it to the point that today I am met by journalists in the hallway and ask: "The leadership of your party I do not know for what reasons it was agreed with GERB's leadership not to support this resignation. Colleagues, this is gross insinuation. We will support the resignation. Those who make such insinuations do not know for what reason, let them refrain from their nerves and have a calm precongress because it is not good and it is not beautiful! And lastly, I talked about it when General Tonev resigned here. I used to say that when the Home Secretary resigned. Colleagues, do not unprincipledly submit to decisions that have nothing to do with parliamentaryism! Have your own dignity and honor and protect them if you can, because everything else turns Bulgaria into anything but a parliamentary republic. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u9	- What's the line? I won't. To make a statement there is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not understand the dissatisfaction of this House when opposition MPs want to take part in a resignation from the ruling coalition. Moreover, Mr. Ermenkov, and I will not speak against Mrs. Irena Kotseva, on the contrary, we will make arguments that to some extent benefit her. I am talking about the double standards that appear in this case, but in the end I will mention the double standards with one current example. I believe that the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov should come out on this stand and explain here, in the plenary and not on the tribunal, as he did the other day, what are the reasons for Mrs. Kotseva's removal. [[GERB lines.]] Moreover, Mr. Tsvetanov and a large part of the parliamentary group stood behind Mrs. Irena Kotseva, believing that she is a decent person and there is no reason for her removal from parliament. How do you now suddenly agree and none of you will take the floor of this tribune to show personal dignity and stand for the words that you have spoken on the stand? I mean, of course, the honourable Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, chairman of the parliamentary group. So, Mr. Tsvetanov, if you are consistent and if you hold on to your words, go out on this stand and repeat the words again, as we are Parliament and not a tribune that we have heard in defense... [[RB lines.]] I ask you to correct an insult that was made on the right side of the room, Mrs. Tsacheva. If you haven't heard, I can repeat it to you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u11	Colleagues, I ask you very much to follow the rules and normal parliamentary behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u12	If we are talking about what you just said, then I will say which of your parliamentary group are cops, honourable colleagues. Do you want to hear who in your group are Sixth Command cops and so on? But that's another topic. [[RB lines.]] I'll spare you this humiliation. We don't have time, I agree. Now for the double standards. I'm against Mrs. Kotseva's resignation. Since Mr. Tsvetanov will not go out on the stand to protect her, he will obviously not show that courage, but I hope that you will show courage and do something very important that you do not demonstrate double standards, but show the same critical approach to a minister in your government with legal education, but with an economic portfolio that has become known these days that his father has won public procurements from these same institutions 5 times bigger than Mrs. Kotseva's order. You know who I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u13	We don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u14	Well, if you don't know, I don't have to repeat myself. But since the removal of Mrs. Kotseva does not violate the stability of the ruling coalition, but because of the demand for responsibility and the account of this minister with legal education, whose father literally took hundreds of thousands of levs, the parliamentary coalition is being strengthened, obviously this will not be the subject of your debate. I expect Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, to show civil, parliamentary dignity and to defend his MP, as he did the tribune in the National Assembly. Otherwise, I will think that you are manifesting double standards and, as Mr Ermenkov put it very well, you are working under the dictation of Prime Minister Borisov, who orders you to remove from the Bulgarian Parliament, without completing the investigation in this case. We're talking about a sum of 200,000. lv. And for this minister with legal education, the amount is five, six, seven, eight times larger. You can go into the media today and see what it's about. Thank you for your attention and I hope, after my speech, that the word will be taken. I believe I expect Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u15	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that this is not about leaving a Member of the National Assembly. It is about a political phenomenon and to say the fight against corruption has gone very badly, but it has gone very badly, because this principle that we are starting to work on here, and especially the leadership of the largest party that supports the government, will do nothing good. This is not about protecting one MP or several. It is a question of violating the fundamental principles of the rule of law, the separation of authorities and those principles that are enshrined in our Constitution. The morality of the individual citizen, of the individual MP, can be compatible or incompatible with the institution in which he works, but the main thing that must be leading is his personal will. Because the personal will of each of us here, along with the combined will of our institution, is that body that stands at the heart of political sovereignty. Because any attempt to remove a MP from the National Assembly with any vague motives is an attack against political sovereignty. And we need to know that and be clear. Because when we allow such experiments, when we allow the possibility by delivery, because this is already being recorded in the laws, I would like to point out to you that there is a law that will legitimize what is going on right now, it will legitimize it. Why do each of you feel that you will not find three benefactors to write the report? They haven't written here since yesterday. Donos have been writing for decades. Donors were written before the end of World War II. Donos are also written in royal times. And that's when a lot of people got shot at. I suggest that we stop this practice and address the Prime Minister of the Republic with the most serious attitude. This practice will not lead to good Bulgarian institutions. This is not about protecting one party or another. This is about following some general principles. Because a Member of the National Assembly cannot be removed from the National Assembly in this way, in such a humiliating way to society. Because that's an attitude for all of us. This means that there are people here who are constantly entangled in something and who can leave at any moment. And then those out there throwing eggs will become more and more, without any understanding of their cause, which is wicked, because it is also disrespectful to institutions. Therefore, I appeal to all my fellow Members, let us, when it comes to us, for our immunity, for our political place in the constitutional order of the state, stick to the rules and laws. Breaking the law will lead to what we see today. The political situation in the country is very fragile. Any such act can lead to a senseless violation of the authority of the institutions and even to their collapse. I call on the ruling party to exercise responsibility, not to submit to cheap populism, to fight corruption and so on, to various laws that are being set, which are not clear how they are being written, and for which 20 ambassadors came to us a few months ago to agitate us. Bulgaria is a sovereign state. When there is sufficient evidence, there are sufficient legislative guarantees that someone can be held liable, including a MP... The rest is political arbitrariness. Don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u17	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to practice rhetoric here, defend the immunity of the MPs. In the end, we have an act that we have to assume is........................... that it is..................................................... I will not discuss this and I will vote for this resignation after our esteemed colleague has deposited her resignation before the National Assembly. I'd like to say a few words about the political imitation. This is an extremely serious problem of today's government, honourable Members, because this type of move is being made to mimic the fight against corruption in the public domain. Corruption suffocates the Bulgarian economy, harasses the Bulgarian society, worries people and takes them out into the street. This is the main problem that irritates Bulgarian citizens and this problem should be answered, but not with imitation, but with real action with regard to all signals that there are in the public space.. not through selected cases to try to imitate that something is being done. This reproach I refer directly to the Prime Minister is not the person who will decide which individual case will mislead the Bulgarian society. I don't know what this order is or what it's about, but there are far more serious problems that are being given publicity and they are not being treated. The electoration in the fight against corruption will reduce the trust of the Bulgarian society in parliament, the institutions at an even lower level. I hope what I'm saying is to be heard and have the same arsin, as the people say, on all occasions. Otherwise, I don't want to mess with you guys on the left. Here you go out with an aplomb to explain what should be happening in this area. I do not want to give examples of who gave the entire security sector to the so-called DPS party. The one you sent to Brussels to represent all socialists gave the entire security sector to the DPS, and Boyko Borisov's big problem is that he inherited it and did nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u19	- What's the line? Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u20	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Atanasov, and who gave concession to all Bulgarian natural resources? Who broke up the whole industry? There are two things that are aimed at this act, and I want to say them clearly in front of everyone: first, there is fear and it is shown that everyone can be blown off as the Prime Minister wants; and second, esteemed rulers, you are very quick to cut off your tail so that it does not come to cutting off your head. That's it. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u21	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Georgiev, I don't understand the line. Otherwise, such a type of undefined reproaches.. Please very much, when you speak, speak specifically. I'm not a man to concern the public with myself, but I want to tell you what was the operative of the indictment that was brought to me back when you were in charge of the state. It said inside that as an official, I ordered a report on corruption to be produced, and I was indicted for it. It's a good thing the justice system was in place and I was acquitted at three instances. So don't bother me here with who sold what. Otherwise, this economy that your party had built, there was no way that it wouldn't die because it wasn't competitive. That's the truth. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u23	Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a line in the manner of conduct because you allow MPs, first, to go beyond the subject, we are discussing the resignation of a fellow Member of the National Assembly, and secondly, the way in which the speaker tried to qualify the Movement for Rights and Freedoms as the so-called party. I put aside the fact that the DPS cannot be gum for anyone's mouth, at least at Atanas Atanasov, even less the party he represents. However, we expect you not to allow parliamentary parties to be offended in this way, and that is beyond the context of the topic discussed first. Secondly, to maintain a little more respect for each other and for the parties we represent, because behind these parties are hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian voters. They vote in particular for the DPS invariably in the last 25 years, in many times more and send representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to the Bulgarian Parliament, and no one takes anything on concession. The voters are sending us here to represent them and rule according to the Constitution and the laws of the country. So I expect you, Madam President, not to allow such precedents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u25	Dear Mr. Tsonev, I accept your procedure in the manner of conduct. Colleagues, it is unacceptable at the specific point with a specific subject matter, the draft decision has already been mentioned that on its own grounds it has been submitted, and the hypothesis of the Constitution is this, the draft decision is on the same basis, to go beyond the subject of the debates and to share what we have to say between political parties at all. I am not comfortable at the beginning of the plenary session making comments, interrupting MPs as they speak. So I took my responsibility by admitting that Mr. Tsonev had a reason. I hope, my fellow Members, that you do not put me in such situations from now on, that I recognise things that are obvious that we are deviating from the debate. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will not support Mrs. Kotseva's resignation. You said an act of volition, but this act is under certain pressure. This is nothing more to me than a bread and a spectacle, a postulate of the Roman Empire, the way it is governed. You understand, I'll tell you one thing, you will judge it yourself. I know that a lot of colleagues will vote without saying anything. I know they're thinking it. I can think of a theologian from the time of World War II who said, "When they came for the Communists, I didn't say anything. Thus went on, including for the Jews, the unions, and finally said: "When they came for me, there was no one to come out and protect me. Think about this thing. I understand the will of the Prime Minister and the government to show that there is a fight against corruption, but I do not think this is the right place to cut from. There are far sicker places where it can be cut. I understand that we are doing this because society wants to see a punished politician, MP and so on. We have commented on this many times every time we have debated whether it is worthy enough for the MPs and this institution to be humiliated. If you want, let's go outside and beat ourselves up, but do you think that this way we can restore our credibility as politicians, that this way we can raise parliament to another level? No, you won't. That is precisely why I will not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u27	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take a position on the resignation deposited by the respected MP Irena Kotseva and strongly state that there is no MP from the Parliamentary Group of GERB who is not behind it. [[Applause from GERB.]] I believe that Irena Kotseva proved it by her actions as an MP who defended the principles of giving a tribune and defending every right cause. She is actively involved in education, regional policy, and each of the MPs involved in these committees knows what kind of person Irena Kotseva is, but to resign you must have the dignity to do so. And she did. And it is her personal act only and solely guided by the interests of the state and by stopping any speculation and allegations of her guilt. There is no MP who blames Irena Kotseva. And I believe that all these interpretations that have been made in the public domain in the past few days have only been so that the political party GERB can be vulnerable. As far as the Prime Minister's position is concerned, I would like to address each one of the parties present here. Each party has its own chairman who is elected to a national forum. And always the President may express his position and his opinion, but you should not link with the personal act of Irena Kotseva and what is extremely important to know that she will continue to enjoy the necessary authority from all MPs from GERB and from the whole party. What she has done is something worth appreciating in dignity, because at present there is not a person who can say what she has done as a crime because she has not committed such a crime. [[Noise and lines.]] You know that we have enough negative attitude from certain media or from certain politicians who can use any opportunity to make political talk, and that is why we also respect the different opinions that have been given here. Our request is that we still comply with the will of a Member of the National Assembly, who has stated that he wants to leave the forty-third parliament. I can tell you categorically that we will always respect the personal opinion of each Member of the National Assembly, and that some Members of the National Assembly have entered with a certain political power and then stated that they have nothing to do with it anymore, this is already a form of dignity. I can say that the unspeakable one here quoted me several times, I can say that his place in the National Assembly was at the Patriotic Front, but he did not take dignity, but undertook to defend his personal interests. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u29	First line - Bozhinov, second line - Mr. Enchev, third line - understand, Mr. Ermenkov or Zablyanov. Make your point, guys. Last line, Mr. Ermenkov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u30	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I have listened to you very carefully and I have left a very difficult impression. I'll say it in one sentence. Goes the one who has not done any offense to remain inviolable those who plunder and spill Bulgaria. That's terrible! [[Noise lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u31	Second line, Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Tsvetanov, you're talking about dignity. Since you are talking about dignity, Mr. Tsvetanov, you and your parliamentary group should vote against Ms. Irena Kotseva's resignation. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Although this is a personal act you said such good words about it, therefore you are acting under the pressure of the Prime Minister and more precisely under his order, therefore you have no dignity, Mr. Tsvetanov. I have left the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front because it cheated on its voters and it must leave the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] Not the one who remained faithful to the Programme, to the Statute and to the promises to the Bulgarian voters, but this is another topic. Let's not bother a group that has serious chronic problems with its existence, so, Mr. Tsvetanov, you are talking about dignity and you are voting for Mrs. Irena Kotseva's resignation. It's called moral imbalance. [[Replications to the popular notions of Velizar Enchev from different parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u33	The cop is standing in the front row! [[Replyings and calls: "Communist!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u34	Please, please, please! Colleagues, please! I'm insulted. Please! [[Loud noise, lines, calls, MPs become straight, exchange lines.]] Colleagues, please don't make me call this meeting off. [[Lowered noise, shouting.]] Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for a line. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Colleagues, please! Please calm down! You're not helping by joining the joint debate! Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I am taking a line on what you have said, and indeed, in most of your part, 99% of what you have said is about the dignity of the MP. For standing behind your colleague, I admire you. I do not agree with what you said that she voluntarily resigned because your prime minister, your chairman, disproved you five days ago publicly from Shumen, where he said, there is a record, and I do not want to release it to you. It's here on this device. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] Where he says, I personally asked Irena Kotseva to resign. Do you understand this isn't about a voluntary act? And when we talk about politics, when we talk about what's called the dignity of the people's representative, we don't talk and we don't blow the air for nothing. On the contrary, we are trying to protect the dignity of the people's representative, his sovereignty to make decisions and that when you are basically forcing someone to perform acts that contradict parliamentaryism in the Republic of Bulgaria, this should not be the style and method of work of the largest party in parliament represented. That's your way of provocating parliamentaryism. That's how you destroy it. You are thus putting first the will of a person who decides everything in this country, including, among other things, municipal issues, because he said that he has also requested the resignation of the deputy mayor of Sofia, not the one who should have asked for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u36	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! My request is that we be more moderate and that we preserve the dignity of Parliament as well. Every statement, if it leads to such aggression, believe that the Election Code will not be able to accept it in the coming few days. I would like to respond to all those who have been involved in my speech. Colleagues, you have every right to speak. You are in your right to do what you have proved you can do: to lead the country to bankruptcy and you have had it as an opportunity in government when you had both prime minister and parliamentary support, but things were just going badly. When you left your parliamentary group Mr. Kadiev, do you remember what you said about him? Do you remember? You don't remember! Why do you have a double standard? Irena Kotseva is a respected person. It will continue to be respected by GERB. I see you have sympathy, too. You can also respect it, and I believe that this should be the attitude towards every single MP who has made his own decision to leave Parliament. This is to comment on the Prime Minister's speeches, I repeat to you that he is also Chairman of the Political Party GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u38	Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u39	Thank you, Madam President. I know that in this debate, I cannot ask for a termination procedure, but I will take this in the form of a procedure to call on the MPs to stop this masquerade. Some worked until 1:00 last night. Others apparently, when they got to sleep, their only goal was to turn a personal act into a masquerade, which is unworthy. Colleagues, let's stop with this artificial farce. I think anyone who knew Irena Kotseva can only say good words about her. Let's respect her personal act and cut it out. [[Lowered noise, lines.]] It is indeed unworthy to comment on a person who is absent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Colleagues, there are no other willing speakers. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision to suspend the authority of a Member of the National Assembly with which I introduced you at the beginning of the point. Vote 148 MPs: 119, against 18, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: SELECTING MEMBERS OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL OF THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Colleagues, I recall item IV. Election of members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly of our Decision, promulgated in the Official Journal, No. 29 of this year: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present to the National Assembly a report on the hearing of candidates for members of the CEM. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 4. The vote shall be clearly carried out through the computerised voting system. 5. Candidates for CEM members shall be subject to the vote consecutively, alphabetically arranged according to their own names on the attached list. [[The National Representative Velizar Enchev argued with GERB MPs. Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Enchev! You're out of place, Mr. Enchev. I'll take you out of the courtroom! [[Loud noise and lines.]] The Quaestors, take Mr. Enchev out, or I'll take him out of the room. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's six. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If several of the candidates for a member of the CEM have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes for the CEM has been elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for a member of the CEM receives the necessary votes, a re-voting shall take place involving the two candidates who have received the most votes for the CEM. 9. If two or more candidates have an equal number of votes, a new vote shall be held between them under the same conditions. 10. If none of the candidates for a member of the CEM receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. I give Mrs. Karastoyanova the floor to brief us on the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and on the draft decision. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u41	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly, I would like to present to your kind attention: ♪ I can't believe on hearing candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council from the National Assembly quota At an open meeting held on 21 April 2016 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly and on the TV programme BNT2, the Committee on Culture and Media held a hearing of the proposed candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media, in accordance with Section III of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and procedure for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly (en. DV, No. 29 from 2016), hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure'. The meeting was attended by: members Ivo Atanasov and Maria Stoyanova from the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators Ivaylo Burkov, as well as representatives of NGOs. There are six proposals for candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly: Vasil Chobanov, proposed by Metodi Andreev and Yavor Haytov; Ivo Draganov, proposed by Nayden Zenogorski, Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs; Kin Stoyanov, proposed by Slavi Binev; Lubomir Halachev, proposed by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs; Rosita Elena, proposed by Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs; and Sofia Vladimirova, proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media Polina Karastoyanova noted that the required documents under Section I are presented to the proposals. 2 of the procedural rules and candidates shall comply with them. The proposals, together with all documents, are published within the specialized website on the website of the National Assembly. There was an opinion on support, which was also published on the specialized website. The opinion is from the Association........................................................................................................ Ivo Draganov. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, applicants were presented consistently, in alphabetical order of their own names by importers of the relevant proposals. The candidacy of Vasil Chobanov was presented by importers Metodi Andreyev and Yavor Haytov. Vasil Chobanov is a lawyer and longtime journalist in the Bulgarian National Radio, Radio Free Europe, he has participated in legal publications such as the "Society and Law", the "Legal World". He has taken up the post of Director of the Programme "Modern" of the Bulgarian National Radio from May 2014 to 2015. He has TV experience in TV "Europe" and in the Bulgarian National Television. He's a winner of numerous awards and awards. It is also among the winners of the annual award Golden Key "Access to Information." The nomination by Nayden Zelenogorski, Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs of Ivo Draganov was presented by Nayden Zelenogorski. Associate Professor Ivan Draganov, known in society as Ivo Draganov, has been teaching since 2004 at New Bulgarian University, Department of Telecommunications and since 1996 at NATFIZ. A PhD in cinema, cinema and television. With professional experience at all levels in cinema and television, he was Deputy Director of Filmmaking and Program Director of the Bulgarian National Television. He was a member of the National Council for Radio and Television; Director-General, responsible editor of TV "Europe"; Chief Manager of BBT TV; Deputy Director of the Bulgarian National Film Shop; Editor and Writer in Studio for Scientific and Documentary Films.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Ivo Draganov is the first representative of the Bulgarian National Television in the Programme Committee of the European Union for Radio and Television. She is a representative of Bulgaria in the European Association of Regulatory Authorities, member of the first Committee on Ethics in Electronic Media. He is a member of the Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers, the Bulgarian Film Academy and the Society of Habilitated Lecturers in Screen Arts. The candidacy of Kin Stoyanov was presented by the MP Slavi Binev. Kin Stoyanov is a journalist with more than 40 years of practice. Since 1976 there have been publications in the newspaper. He was an editor in the magazine. "Change"; Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the magazine "Bulgarian Journalist"; Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the newspaper "Democracy"; editor-in-chief and founder of the c. He was the editor-in-chief of the Publishing House, Radoj Ralin and Boris Dimovski. From 2000 to 2002 he was a member of the Programme Council of the Bulgarian National Television. From 2005 to 2008 he was screenwriter of the author's department of "Political Satire" in the program "Obsolute" on TV 7. From 2006 to 2009 in the same TV is a screenwriter and producer of the show Our 15 minutes. From 2007 to 2014 together with the team "Infohotici" creates a whole line of authors in the program of the Bulgarian National Radio, Radio "Sofia." The candidacy of Lyubomir Halachev, proposed by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs, was presented by Petar Kadiev. Professor. Lyubomir Halachev is a director, writer and producer. He graduated from the Institute of Cinema in Moscow in 1972. From 1975 to 1989 he worked in Studios as an operator and director of documentary films. In 2001 he became a professor at NATFIZ "Krustyu Sarafov" and in 2006 he was a doctor of art. From 2011 to 2015 he was Rector of NATFIZ Krustyu Sarafov. Journalism began in 1965 in the century. He later worked for the editions of BTA "Paralelli" and "Licca." He's writing articles in c. "Standart," c. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Professor Lyubomir Halachev has seven books in the field of cinema and television. During the period 1992-1994 he was director of the film studio "Spectre 92." In 2004-2005 he was a guest professor at the Institute of Media and Cinema at the University of Nie Ann. He is a member of the Public Council of BNT, of the Union of Bulgarian Journalists, of the Union of Bulgarian Filmmakers and of the Union of Bulgarian Writers. The candidacy of Rosita Elenova, proposed by Krasimira Kovatchka and a group of MPs, was presented by Rosen Petrov. Rosita Elenova has graduated from higher education in NATFIZ, acting. She also graduated from journalism at Sofia University. Five years has been the host of a daily television cultural show in TV for 7 days. He has experience working in the state administration as a pressman of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Currently he is the pressman of the largest state enterprise employer in Bulgaria. There are three awards from the Bulgarian Public Relations Society. He is a member of the Union of Journalists, the Union of Artists and the European Association of Communication Directors. The candidacy of Sofia Vladimirova, proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, was presented by Irena Sokolova. Sofia Vladimirova has a Master's degree in journalism from Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, Faculty of Journalism and Mass Communication, profile At the Technical University of Dresden he received further training in German specialty. Her professional experience began as a student, working as an intern-reporter in the program "St. Botev" of the Bulgarian National Radio. He then worked at the Department of Culture. It's a newsletter. He's experienced as a reporter, a writer at an independent production company. She has participated in the preparation of television programmes for which she has developed scenarios and participated in the creative processes of their creation. In 2010-2013 she was a member of the Electronic Media Council. During the same period, she also participated in the work of the European Platform of Content Regulatory Authorities, presenting the position of the Council for Electronic Media on the issues discussed by the organisation related to media regulation. After leaving the Council for Electronic Media Sofia Vladimirova worked briefly as an expert with the public. Following the submission of the applications, the personal presentation of the candidates and their views on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media was carried out. In his exhibition Vasil Chobanov noted that 2016 is extremely important for the Bulgarian media regulation in view of the crumbling place on freedom of speech in Bulgaria and the task of the Council for Electronic Media is to change this trend. He expressed the idea of the Council for Electronic Media to give an opportunity for a new public contract for media regulation in Bulgaria and to do so in relatively short time. Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television to give a good tone to the public debate. In his presentation, Assoc. Ivo Draganov added to his biography specializations on television in England, USA and France. He highlighted two very important factors for the public media, editorial and financial independence. Future Directors-General must formulate their vision of the mission, values and standards, their vision of the educational function of public media. He proposed the Bulgarian National Television to create a children's channel. He said that it was not right for the Chairman of the Board of Directors of BNR and BNT to be the same person as the Director-General. Focuses on the protection of journalists and promotion of Bulgarian television production. Kin Stoyanov called his exhibition "Ljubician 113." Expressed a position that the Council for Electronic Media missed the privatisation of BTC. The media regulator has blocked the participation of free producers in public media. She noted that for years BNT has not announced competitions for external productions. The Board for Electronic Media shall elect the Director-General of the National Media by a much better written management programme and, in the event that it does not implement it, the Director-General's term of office shall be terminated early. Share an opinion that members of the Electronic Media Council should be elected by a qualified majority of parliament. Professor. Lyubomir Halachev highlighted the tasks that the Council has for electronic media as a public authority, above all for setting standards and basic rules to be met by those working in the media. He's a major public guarantor so our media environment can't be destroyed. The work of members of the Council for Electronic Media should focus on improving the media environment and focus on the qualities of the public media leaders. He also focuses on education. The educational programs of BNT and BNR are an obligation, but they must also be distributed from commercial televisions. In her exhibition Rosita Elenova presented a model for the work of the Council for Electronic Media together with the public media, which is built on practices by commercial media. Processes of planning, programming, optimization of budgets and current control to be carried out by the Council for Electronic Media. The viewer is placed in the center. The state's money follows the spectator. The objective criterion is the rating. The media regulator must be a stand-in, be in an active position. The natural role of the public media is to invest in programmes aimed at a specific audience. It underlined that this model would not put public media in an extremely disadvantaged and disadvantaged position to compare them to commercial televisions. In her exhibition Sofia Vladimirova pointed out as an immediate task to the Council for Electronic Media ensuring stability of the body to which the society and the guild can trust. The Council for Electronic Media is in a very important year when it is about to elect the Director-General of BNT and BNR. The two media are a criterion for good and quality journalism. Focuses on European legislation and upcoming changes to the audiovisual media services directive. He noted the need for the regulator's administration to qualify further and permanently so that it does not fall behind the sphere it regulates. The Council for Electronic Media must maintain close links with its similar European regulators. Express the position that time regulation should start to give up its field of self-regulation. It also examined the transparency of the activities of the Council for Electronic Media. The regulator should not be part of the problems of the media sector, but be part of its solutions. During the discussion the candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media answered the questions raised by the MPs Lachezar Ivanov, Ivan Ivanov, Petar Kadiev and Rosen Petrov regarding the legal capacity of the media regulator to influence the commercial media in terms of commercial programmes; legislative changes that should be proposed in order to change Bulgaria's place in the ranking for freedom of speech; for the height of sound of advertising; funding of public media; registration of ARC television; the state of regional media; and where freedom of speech ends. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, by 14 votes in favour, decided that the legal requirements under art. 25 of the Law on Radio and Television for the appointment of a member of the Council for Electronic Media by the proposed candidates, and a report to be submitted for consideration and voting by the National Assembly, to which a draft decision for the selection of each candidate is attached. Next are proposals on the list of applicants. Honourable Members, as stated in the Commission report on the adoption of the procedural rules for the election of members of the CEM, it is necessary to elect two members from the quota of the National Assembly at the place of Georgi Lozanov and Anna Hadzhieva, whose mandates have expired. Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, allow me to thank you for your support for the constructive conduct of the selection procedure for members of the CEM. Every one of you, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. In accordance with the published Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, we are moving on to debates under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The debate is open. You have the floor, colleagues. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. By asking the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber, we are entering into a voting procedure. I recall that, under the Decision adopting the Rules of Procedure, the vote is clearly carried out through the computerised voting system, etc. 5 candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, and as its President said, there are two candidates, shall be put to the vote consecutively, alphabetically, according to their own names on the attached list. First in this order is Vasil Todorov Chobanov. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Vasil Todorov Chobanov as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We are voting, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u43	Vote 128 MPs: 34 against 12, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. The next draft decision is to elect a member of the Council for Electronic Media of Mr. Ivan Ivanov Draganov. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 150 MPs: 57 against 1, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. The next Project for a solution is the election of Mr. Kin Dimitrov Stoyanov as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We vote. Cancel the vote. Colleagues, we are returning the vote because I have not presented the draft decision to elect a member of the Council for Electronic Media in its full version. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Ivan Ivanov Draganov as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. A vote was taken. I want a re-vote for Mr. Ivan Ivanov Draganov. Vote 150 MPs: 58, none, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. "Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Kin Dimitrov Stoyanov as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We vote. They voted 146 MPs: 46, against 10, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED He elected Lyubomir Todorov Halachev as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We vote. They voted 167 MPs: 78, against 11, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u44	Madam President, honourable Members, I think that people have not understood what kind of person is standing and what the name is Professor. Lyubomir Halachev. That's why I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u45	It's a re-vote. Vote 168 MPs: 77, against 12, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I'm putting it to the vote. "Project" DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED She elected Rosita Stoycheva Mihailova Elenova as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. They voted 164 MPs: 128, against 3, abstention 33. The proposal is accepted in the sense that there is a quorum. Next. "Project" DECISION on the election of a member of the Electronic Media Board The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 24, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 29, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED She elected Sofia Vladimirova Dimitrova as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. We vote. They voted 147 MPs: 108, against 11, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I voted against it, not because I know the lady, but I voted against the political imitation and I remembered how in the late soccer group, in the late Todor Zhivkov, in order to imitate pluralism, a rule was introduced that there could be no elections if there were not two candidates for one place. Then the party committees gathered and decided who would be elected, but they also released a spare horse to imitate pluralism. That's the same job we did today. Unfortunately, this is not the only time that a particular choice is actually negotiated behind the scenes, and then we imitate pluralism in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u47	Is there another negative vote, colleagues? Dear Members of the National Assembly, in view of the voting and results received, members of the Council for Electronic Media, elected from the quota of the National Assembly are: 128 votes for the National Assembly, 3 votes against the National Assembly and 33 votes abstentions received by Mrs. Rosita Stoycheva Mihailova Elenova; the next member of the Council for Electronic Media with 108 votes for the National Assembly, 11 votes against the National Assembly, 28 votes abstentions, is Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova Dimitrova. We move on to the next item on our agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO PROPOSAL TO THE PRESENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR ARRIVING WITH ORDEN OLD STRAW Report from the Committee on Health. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" on a draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for awards with the Order of the Old Mountains. No 654-02-34, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2016. At its regular meeting held on 21 April 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed a draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Adam Persenski; Rector of Medical University Pleven, Prof. Dr. Slavcho Tomov, Doctor of Medical Sciences. In accordance with art. 11, para. Art. 1 and 2 in conjunction with art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on Orders and Medals of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria awarded with the Order of the Stara Planina of the first degree Bulgarian citizens with extremely great merit to the state, on a proposal adopted by a decision of the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the respective ministers, from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the higher schools, from the Bulgarian Red Cross, from creative unions, associations and other non-profit organizations, as well as from the executive committees of citizens. The National Assembly received a proposal from the Rector and the Academic Council of the Medical University of Pleven, for awards with the Order of the Stara Mountains. Cor. Prof. Dr. Grigor Angelov Gorchev, Doctor of Medical Sciences for his overall contribution to the development of Bulgarian high-tech medicine. The Rector of Medical University Pleven, Prof. Dr. Slavcho Tomov presented to the members of the Commission the activities of Article-kor. Prof. Dr. Grigor Angelov Gorchev, in the field of medical science and practice. It was emphasized on the extremely great contribution of Prof. Gorchev in clinical medicine: oncoginecology, endoscopic, laparoscopic and robotic surgery. Professor Gorchev is the author of over 240 scientific works, internationally recognized scientist, surgeon, oncoginologist. He managed to introduce innovative methods of training and advanced technology in medical practice, which led to the creation of a new school in the construction of medical specialists in Bulgaria. Prof. Gorchev passes through socially significant positions such as: Chairman of the Council of Rectors of Higher Medical Schools in Bulgaria; Member of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in Bulgaria; Member of the Supreme Medical Council of the Ministry of Health; Chairman of the State Commission for the Specialty in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Member of the VAC; Chairman of the Board of Directors of the International Cancer Center and Advisor of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on the health policy of the country. His significant scientific and public contribution has been awarded with numerous high awards and awards, including: the Honorary citizen of Tryavna; the Honorary citizen of the city of Pleven. He has been awarded an honorary mark I-th degree by the Bulgarian Medical Union for contribution to the development of medicine and has been awarded the Medic of the Year 2004. Prof. Gorchev was awarded an honorary sign of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the honorary award of the Bulgarian Medical Association in 2006 and for the second time in 2011. Members of the Health Commission have united their positions and expressed support for the proposed draft decision. During the discussion, the Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Adam Persenski, expressed support for the proposed Project for a solution and admired the exceptional professionalism and dedication of Prof. Gorchev to medical science and practice, the innovative approach to building a new school in medical education in Bulgaria, and last but not least, the social significant activity of Prof. Gorchev in the academic community, medical and research circles, including in the work of the institutions. The personal and professional example of Prof. Gorchev in the field of medical science and practice make him worthy of award with the Order of the Old Mountains. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for the award of the Order of the Stara Planina, No 654-02-34, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of members of the National Assembly on 19 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I'm asking you to report the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u50	Mrs. Chairman! Project! DECISION for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of Stara Planina The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 2 in relation to Art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on Orders and Medals of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Offers the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to award art.-cor. Prof. Dr. Grigor Angelov Gorchev, D.Sc. with the Order of the Old Mountains and the first degree for its extremely great merit to the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of medical science and practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u51	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Rumen Gechev, after him Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! I am particularly pleased on behalf of our entire parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria and, of course, as a member of the town of Pleven, we strongly support the proposal of the honourable colleagues because really Prof. Gorchev deserves this state award with his personal contribution to the development of medical science and practice in the Republic of Bulgaria and to the construction of a strong, competitive center in the beautiful town of Pleven. So we will be happy to vote because this is a recognition not only for former Rector Gorchev, it is a recognition for medical science and for this, as I said, a strong medical center in the city. Pleven, who is yet to develop and enrich. My fellow Members, I invite you, and I have no doubt that we will all support this proposal for the award of this worthy Bulgarian doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have the floor. Then Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u54	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! And I would like as a MP from Pleven to support the possible decision for the service of the Order of the Old Mountain. Gorchev. I think Mrs Daritkova in her exhibition convinced you of his moral and professional qualities. Indeed, he is one of the students of medicine in Bulgaria, Stojer and of the Medical University in Pleven. As you heard, he was a medical doctor of the year and a doctor of the year, a high-class scientist. I would say that his innovative treatment methods are the most significant person in Eastern Europe with brilliant professional skills, and I would say a prominent public figure. It is also an honorary citizen of the city of Pleven. This is a worthy Bulgarian with whom we weeds are proud, and I would ask that we support this proposal for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u55	Mr. Kuchukov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I feel obliged to support this proposal as the person in this room who has known Professor for the longest time. Gorchev, I've been uncomfortable for how many years. But I will only say two words without repeating what Dr. Daritkova read. There is hardly anyone in the last 30 years who has done so much for Bulgarian healthcare as Prof. Gorchev. I say it with a clear conscience without exaggerating. One of his main merit, in my opinion, is that he showed both Bulgarian doctors and Bulgarian patients that medicine is not done only in Sofia, but throughout Bulgaria, at least within all medical universities. As a conclusion, I will quote a colleague of his who is an obstetrician from Varna, who said: "Professor Gorchev is undoubtedly number one in the profession. The bad news is the next one is number 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u57	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u58	Thank you, Madam President. As I have also expressed my opinion in the Committee on Health, the same opinion I will express here that I will gladly support this decision because a worthy Bulgarian who has glorified Bulgaria all over the world deserves this respect and the group of the Patriotic Front will vote this worthy Bulgarian, this worthy doctor who has given so much, first of all to Bulgaria as a country, second to patients, third to Bulgarian healthcare, fourth to world health, deserves to be honored with this high reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u59	Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u60	Madam President, colleagues! I have the honor of knowing Dr. Gorchev personally. I'm also not gonna tell you how many years I've known him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u61	You're young... [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u62	And since I'm in the white beard group and I've been 40 years, I can tell you that I've known him since I was young, because he and my parents were classmates at Pleven Medical University. Personally, that's it. In public capacity Dr. Gorchev, Prof. Gorchev is one of the most prominent of our contemporaries who celebrate Bulgaria and Pleven in the field of health care. He took the top steps in bringing out Pleven's fame as a city that became a medical hub. We all who are from Pleven are trying to make Pleven a place where the medical industry will mainly develop. Personally, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Metin, for speaking on behalf of all of us from Pleven. I simply do not have a procedural opportunity to express my position, but I join what you have said. Was Rosen Petrov first or did you give up, Mr. Petrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u64	I'm out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u65	It's Mr. Lachezar Ivanov's word. I hope, since all the groups have supported, that we will focus on voting, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! I and my parliamentary group will be happy to support the proposal, Professor. Gorchev to receive the highest award of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'd like to say two words. That this extraordinary doctor gave great impetus to the development of medicine. Moreover, I would like to share that his experience is shared in Japan, in America, in Australia. And one detail: this year he was a European rapporteur at a huge forum in New York. So I believe that everyone here in this House should unanimously support precisely this high recognition of our colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u67	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the draft decision, which Mrs Daritkova introduced to us, with which the National Assembly proposed to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria to award a member- corresponds professor Dr. Grigor Angelov Gorchev, Doctor of Medical Sciences, with the Order of the Old Mountains (Old Mountain), for his outstanding merits to the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of medical science and practice. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. Now let's move on to: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. I expect Mrs. Miteva and Mr. Kirilov in the hall. Colleagues, I recall, at the end of the extraordinary plenary session yesterday, § 125 was reported. The debate on him has begun. It's not over. However, by a decision of the National Assembly, we suspended the examination yesterday and today we should continue where we stopped yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u68	Madam President, we are prepared for an additional report on this paragraph, which, however, also covers other provisions. We haven't completed his co-ordination with the members of the Legal Commission. Please provide us with the possibility of final editing in the additional report and on the first break to consider it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u69	Now there is no obstacle to vote § 125. New Articles are being proposed by 296a, until 296, something that is not supported. The additional report will be in respect of art. 297, right? We could continue on the main report and then return to this proposal, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u70	That's right. For art. 297e, but also for the following paragraphs. " § 134a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u71	When you give the signal, we move on to the extra.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u73	Statements under § 125? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to reject § 125 by importer, which is actually a proposal by Mr Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, and Mr Mikov and a group of MPs. Vote 87 MPs: 76 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u74	Paragraph 126. A proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev is created a new § 9 with the following text: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 298. 2 the text seven per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list is replaced by 5 per cent of the regional electoral quota. The existing Paragraph 9 shall be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 126. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 126 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u75	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! The import text is submitted by me and my colleague Martin Dimitrov and it concerns the reference, and we propose to align the mode of operation of the Presidency of European elections with that of national elections. You know that there the threshold is 5%, while in national elections for the National Assembly and for MPs is 7%. It seems to us that it is more correct to be uniform and 5%, as our understanding of the functioning of the offer is that it is a good mechanism for majority, which is currently introduced into our electoral system, which must be encouraged. Given the expectations of society for more majority, it seems to us that we can achieve it this way. That is why we have proposed to reduce the threshold from 7% to 5%, to align it with that for elections to the European Parliament, and indeed to make it more effective and easier to trigger, to have more competition between candidates offered by each party and coalition. We think this is in the interests of citizens and in the interests of democracy. I hope you'll back us up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u77	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 11 against 49, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 126 by importer to be rejected. Vote 81 MPs: for 71, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u78	Paragraph 127. A proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs will be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 127 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u79	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 127 by importer. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u80	Paragraph 128. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 128. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 128 - is dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 128 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u81	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 128 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u82	Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 128a: § 128a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 311 is created. 2: The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 1 et c. 2 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 2. 58. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 128a: § 128a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 317 is created para.3: The parties, coalitions and committee committees shall declare candidates as president and vice president no later than 90 days before the election day. The declared candidate list shall be entered in a special register with a serial number which shall be kept by the Central Election Commission. The sequence of appointments of the declared candidates for president and vice president shall determine the order of entry in the special register of the Central Election Commission. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." an application form declaration from each candidate that he agrees to be registered by the proposed party, coalition or initiative committee, that he has lived for the last 5 years in the country and that he meets the conditions under art. 93, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 1 of the Constitution and under art. 317, para. 1); 2. Points 4 and 5 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u83	Statements, colleagues, on the reported texts? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposals of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs in art. 311 to create para. 2 and para. 3. Both proposals are not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u84	Separate, separate!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u85	You insist on voting separately. Cancel the vote. I put to the vote the first proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the creation of para. 2 in art. 311. Colleagues, you understand that there is a connection between paragraphs 2 and 3, but that's how you want it, so we'll vote on it. The Commission does not support it. They voted 101 MPs: 29, against 10, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the creation of para. 3 in art. 317. The Commission does not support it. They voted 89 MPs: 23, against 12, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 105 with a corresponding numbering of the amendment report in art. 318, para. 1. They voted 101 MPs: 82 against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u86	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 129, which shall become paragraph by order number. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 320 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "one petition' shall be replaced by "one list'. 2. In para. 4 the words..3, 4 and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 129, which is generally supported by the Commission, edited by the same and found place in its report with corresponding numbering and content. Vote 87 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 1. Paragraph 129 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u88	According to § 130, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 130, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u89	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 18, against 55, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 130, which is supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report with a corresponding numbering. Please vote § 130 by importer. They voted 102 MPs: 86 against 16, no abstentions. Paragraph 130 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u90	Paragraph 131, in two versions. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 131, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 5. "Five squares for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter in which it is written "I do not support anyone. " 2. In para. 3 the words "s 4' are replaced by "s 4' and "s 5'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u91	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission's proposal to place this box reflecting the voter's will that it does not support anyone is essentially ridiculous! Both options for which we are offered the result of this kind of vote, of this vote, are absurd! One is that voter turnout will rise if the vote, so reflected, is regarded as valid. Here we hear a proposal that the vote will not be regarded as valid. What does that mean in practice? It means that you invite the Bulgarian electoral, Bulgarian, people to go regardless of their will and reflect that they do not like anyone between the proposed candidates or candidate lists. Then you say to him, "Thank you very much for your opinion that you don't like us, smash the ballot and throw it in the trash. In practice, that is what will happen, because this vote will reflect as null and void. That's in the second hypothesis. Dear Members of Parliament, the same is the meaning of the current possibilities of the Election Code when a person goes and releases an empty ballot or when he does not go to vote at all. It is the duty of all political entities to take care of turnout and thus present their candidates and platforms to make citizens and people go, vote for them and support them. When they do not complete this obligation quality and within time, then people do not go and vote. Non-voting is also a kind of political position and expression of political will. On the one hand, you oblige them to go and exercise their right to vote under the fear of sanctions, that they will be deleted from the electoral lists, if they do not go twice to express this right, and on the other hand, you say: I therefore call on you not to support the text in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov. Then Mr. Mithat Metin. After him, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm surprised what I just heard. There must be some misunderstanding. Of course, it may be due to the systematic absence of the Legal Committee, where we discussed the vote in detail against everyone or the vote. No, it will not be invalid, on the contrary, will be respected, and therefore separate in a separate column, with a separate box in the ballot, so that it can really distinguish itself when people express a protest vote, that it be applied as such, not to be added to the total volume of invalid ballots, but to the contrary, to be clear exactly how much this protest vote is, which is obviously increasing over the years. To a large extent, it is increasing because of actions, rather inactions, or perhaps the most precisely misguided actions of some transition parties, which permanently reduce their result over the years, but are responsible during this period, I would say about several national catastrophes. So let's really know what the protest vote of the people is, let it be taken into account and known. An important thing for which we insisted with our colleagues in the Reformation bloc is that it does not become a weapon for the status quo, but rather when the electoral barrier of 4% is calculated, only then not to be taken into account, so that the protest vote does not concreteise the parties of the status quo in power, the major parties. Here I pay attention to those who think they're big, because in the next election they may not be that big at all, but they've become quite small. This vote will indeed be taken into account, it will be real, but it will not serve to dig into power and in parliament parties of the status quo, who have lost public confidence, who think they are very big and strong, at the expense of smaller or new formations receiving less confidence from citizens, but enough to be present in parliament and to be a corrective, or to express a certain position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Slavov, I'm sorry, but what you're saying is total demagogy! You think that the elections are some kind of sociological action to just take into account what voters think. Either you make him vote and you report his vote as real, and you accept that this man voted, or, if you are not going to account for the vote as real, there is no need for that! What does it mean: we will report the voter's voice just so we know whether he is against it or not, and we will not account for it specifically when calculating the 4-percent barrier. This is ridiculous! The voice is either real or invalid. There's no middle ground! There's no middle ground! If you want us to think of the vote as a vote against it and if more than half of the people vote against it, the elections should be considered invalid and new elections should be held that is the most democratic. Do you agree with that? Here you talk nicely that we make the voter come to the urn, we read his voice just so we know he's against it and nothing more! I'm sorry, but this isn't a sociological survey!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, to take into account people's wishes that they don't like anyone, there's a very good practice and it's good to get back to it. She's from before 9 September. Then people voted with slogans, with newspaper clippings, with a clear message. Thus, the ballots are both null and void, and it is clear that people are not illiterate, and they did not want to vote. This formula, I support the absolutely previous speaker Chavdar Georgiev, he is right. He cannot be with a box and the voice should not respect. It's either one or the other! Therefore, it is better to drop the box and allow people with relevant slogans and positions to express their opinion that they do not agree with anyone. It's something else, and it's old practice. Otherwise, innovation is a good thing, but in this case, it's not useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. Third line? Here you are, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, when the voter goes and scratches out the box, I don't support anyone, or I don't like anyone, or as you put it, he expresses a clear will, it's his volition. Why shouldn't you respect it is my question. When over 50% of citizens don't like anyone, what do we do?! It's practically, and now that's how it works, people just don't go to vote. Election turnout is fluctuating between 40 and 50%. Why do you have to oblige people to go and say, "I do not support anyone, and then say: "Thank you for coming and not supporting us, but we don't give a damn about your will. That's what you practically tell them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Slavov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues from BSP, since all three replicators were from BSP! I'm really surprised at what you've heard. For me the elections are primarily a hearing of the will of the Bulgarian people, and then it is always clear. The question is whether politicians want to hear it and understand it, or whether their goal is to move into parliament and then four years to basically do nothing about not going to committees, not to work, not to be active, and after four years to explain again how they had to be elected. This differs from my understanding of working in parliament, and I think I've shown it many times. I can't agree with you here. At the same time, I understand that the party doctrine in your case says: "The party is not with the party, it is against it! " You obviously refuse to understand that there may be people who refuse to support the BSP in elections. They can express their opinion not only not only that they do not support BSP, but even categorically say that it, as a party of the status quo, is responsible for one, two, three failures, the bankruptcy of the state and that they express it by clearing the box of Vot against all. If you have participated in sectional committees, you have probably seen ballots in which this has been very expressively written, with quite colorful epithetes from participating in the electoral process. However, these ballots, as you know, remain invalid and are counted to the ten and more percent, which we actually count as invalid and do not understand, or we do not want to see this protest vote. This is the point of creating this opportunity to reflect this protest vote, to take into account, in order to know exactly how much it is. What I am paying attention to you again, because apparently some of you have not understood, it is very important that this protest vote against systematically failed parties in the government does not become a means of their concreteisation and remaining in the government at the expense of other new formations that could be corrective. Think about it: people are protesting certain formations or parties of the status quo and voting against them, and you want this protest vote to add it to the electoral barrier and raise it artificially from 4 to 7, 8, 9, 10%. Thus, it is the protest vote against the system and the status quo that becomes an obstacle to the government to enter new formations, new persons and propose new policies. That's obviously unfair. That is why we have made a proposal, which, as you understood yesterday, also met with support among the other formations supporting management. I hope that it will be voted on, supported and later implemented. Mr. Anastasov, if I can finish this way: as the classic said, a little within the joke, I think the BSP will soon understand it, in the next election. ..Sumtimes wine, satims moon. [[Laughter]] That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose a procedure to end the debate and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u105	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u106	I'm making a reverse offer. There are statements to be made. The subject is too important to offer such a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u107	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Please vote. Vote 99 MPs: 75, against 23, abstention 1. The procedural proposal has been accepted. Moving to the vote of § 131 by importer, which is supported and edited by the Commission in a way that is reflected in its report. Please vote § 131 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 77, against 23, abstention 3. Paragraph 131 by importer has been accepted. He has the floor for a negative vote, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The way the plugs from GERB operate, ending the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u109	Mr. Chairman, make him a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u110	... means that you are not interested in the arguments on important and discussion issues in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u111	Mr. Stoilov, I'd like to ask for more ripped speeches, please. Shalteri?! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u112	Okay, I'm adding political. I think that's how we get right. Why is this text harmful to the Law? If you wanted to have a separate column for voting against all parties, you should further support the proposal that these votes be taken into account as valid because any vote clearly expressing the voter's will is valid. He supports a party or does not support a particular party. These voices are in no way invalid because in them the will is clearly expressed. So once you have adopted this text, we will demand further that these votes be taken into account as valid. And the little parties at which you promised to support you for the mandatory vote and for this text, now there is no need to make noise and say how you hit democracy, and they must also quietly accept this text because it is a consequence of what you voted for. Because these voices are clearly expressed as attitude. But the other goal that you are pursuing with this text is to actually not be able to concentrate a protest vote on the support of certain parties, and these votes to blurt out if they are recorded as null and void to be transferred to the main parties. This is the purpose of the proposal voted on a short time ago. If that's what you want, people should understand. If you wanted to, and with that I am finished, Mr. President, to take account of the invalid votes and punish the parties, I even give you an idea to propose a change in the Constitution and these seats in parliament, corresponding to five, ten, fifteen or twenty percent, to remain unoccupied. That would be punishment for the parties, not what you're proposing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev, for the second negative vote in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it, because Mr. Ivanov's procedural proposal took away my right to make a very important proposal, which I think should be respected or disrespected by the Bulgarian Parliament. I would suggest that if 50% plus one voter from the voters in these elections or in the next election fill in the column, I do not support the vote to be cancelled and held again after 90 days. [[GERB lines.]] That right was taken from me. I give you a negative vote on why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u115	He explains why he voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u116	I can't understand what you're reacting to! Let us at least explain a negative vote instead of taking our word away, as you have already done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u117	You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u118	This is my concrete proposal, which I would have made and which, I am convinced, would have found an understanding among many even of you, honourable Members. Two consecutive choices were made in the Republic of Serbia, as more than 50% of voters did not actually vote. This is a practice that shows how to move towards democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. And a third negative vote from MP Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against it, but first of all I would like to say that I am outraged by the way the debate was muffled. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u121	Quiet, please! Excuse me, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u122	I want it to be heard that importers' motives for the box are not constitutional. They are also a consequence of the introduction of mandatory voting, but here they have each other's motives, have each other's goals, other desires. Dear colleagues, if you are making an Election Code for yourself, you should know that you are meeting our most decisive objections. Why? Because the way you behave, in the way you conduct the debate outside Parliament and inside Parliament, you are aware that in some subsequent elections your seat in Parliament is uncertain. In fact, I'd say the opposite. You're definitely staying out of parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u123	Dear Metin, this is hardly the reason for your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u124	This is precisely the reason for my negative vote, because they want to make it so that this box takes away the possibility of the Bulgarian voter's voice being real and they have a lower threshold for entering the parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u125	Thank you, dear Metin. Dear colleagues, an Easter bazaar has been opened in the northern lobby. It is organized by the National Institute of Education with the support of the Committee on Education and Science and Mothers of Children with Disabilities. Parents and children have developed handmade art souvenirs, and funds will be used to rehabilitate, therapy and purchase technical aids. The Bazaar will continue from 27 to 28 April 2016. You are all invited to visit it. It's 11:28. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u126	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u127	Paragraph 132. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 132 be rejected. The Commission proposes to create a new § 109, which will have the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 332, para. 2 is created t. 7. "7." There is a sign in the newsletter with a blue-colored pen in the box. I do not support anyone. Paragraph 133. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: screated § 133a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 333 is amended as follows: Census of votes Art. 333. (1) After opening the electoral box and removing the ballots shall be arranged in stacks as follows: 1. a pile of ballots which do not meet the requirements for real voice according to art. 332, para. 2, and ballots on which the vote of the vote of the voter is not reflected 2. a pile of ballots that meet the requirements for the validity of the voice according to art. 332, para. 2....... votes....................................... (2) After the census of the invalid and actual votes and the coverage /insert/ of their number in the draft of the minutes shall be taken to the census of the actual votes submitted for each of the lists, and the actual ballots shall be arranged on stacks of lists. The ballots of each stack shall be counted separately and the number received shall be entered in the draft of the report against the number in the ballot for the list concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 133 be rejected. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 333, para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." a stack of ballots according to the model established: (a) with a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" and a blue color pen in the box "I do not support anyone; (b) which contain two seals of the relevant sectary electoral commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u128	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 132 by importer to be rejected. The text of the importer for § 132 is not supported by the Commission. Vote 63 MPs: 58, Against 1, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. [[Votes for the quorum are below the required quorum.]] Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u129	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, a large number of colleagues are currently entering the Chamber, which is why I ask you to submit the reported paragraph to a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. I would like to rethink the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 132 which is not supported. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with the corresponding numbering and content according to the report. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 9, no abstentions. The proposal to create a new paragraph with the relevant numbering and content of the Commission report is adopted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 12, 50, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal that the text of the importer for § 133, which is not supported, be rejected. Vote 94 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. We are voting on the Commission's next proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content according to the report on the same. Vote 87 MPs: 79, against 6, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Before we continue our work, let me let you know that employees from the Regional Health Insurance Fund are on the balcony, who celebrate the 17th anniversary of the founding of the Casa. [[Applause, the MPs welcome the guests.]] Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, please proceed with § 134 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u131	Under § 134, a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: is amended as follows: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 334 is amended as follows: Art. 334 (1) The number of invalid votes shall be equal to the number of ballots in the stack of ballots under art. 333, para. 1, t. 1; (2) The number of actual votes shall be equal to the number of ballots in the stack under art. 333, para. 1, t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 134, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 334, para. 3 is added at the end
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u132	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 8 against 47, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 134, which is not supported by the Commission, but it shall offer its version, which has been presented to you by the parliamentary platform. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 134 by importer. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 80 against 13, abstention 1. The Commission's version of § 134 by importer has been accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, with this accelerated rhythm of acceptance, I do not know how many MPs have ever understood what they voted on. [[Heckling]] We voted that the one who scored in the box I did not vote for any party to count as a valid vote. What's really about that voice when the guy hasn't voted for anyone? When in all these years thousands, thousands of voters cast white ballots, that is, they didn't mark any party they voted for, this vote has always counted as invalid, now suddenly the same result What's really like when the guy says he doesn't vote, he doesn't want to vote? You won't get anywhere with such artificial phrases. Indeed, if someone does some thin calculations that this will artificially boost turnout, or distribute more mandates, it is cruelly false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am fully involved in Mr. Kazak's arguments and I turn to the Reformation Block, the ABB, the patriots and all the other small parties, especially those of the ruling majority: colleagues, this is how your agreement of yesterday for the box is violated and the threshold is lifted. Please open your eyes! You're voting against your own interest. You still have the opportunity to request a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u136	There's no way they're gonna ask for a re-vote anymore. Third negative vote? I won't. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u137	According to § 135, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 135, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 335, para. 1 the following additions are made: "3." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is finally added for all candidate lists. "4." A t is created. 3a: 3a. the number of actual votes under art. 333, para. 1, t. 7. According to § 136, a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: The following amendment and addition shall be made in § 136: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The third sentence is created: "Unsubscribed protocol makes it null and void, except in the cases referred to in Article 336. 282, para. Three and four. The text of art. 336 becomes para. 1 and a new para is created. 2: (2) The Chair of the Selection Election Commission or the person expressly authorised by him shall scan and upload the signed Protocol in the presence of all members of the Selection Election Commission who have signed it to a specific location on the site of the Central Election Commission. The scan and upload should be done by the chairman of the selection panel or by the person expressly authorised by him before the materials and election papers are submitted to the municipal electoral commission by the persons responsible. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 136 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u138	You have the floor to speak. You are welcome in the manner of conduct, not speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I draw your attention to the fact that you have allowed two successive paragraphs to be reported in which there are proposals not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u140	It's just one paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u141	There are unsupported proposals...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u142	There's only one thing in one paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u143	How can there not be, Michael Mikov is not supported?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u144	It is also supported by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u145	Take a look at what it says:.... does not support the proposal.................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u146	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u147	To Mikhail Mikov and a group...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u148	Georgi Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u149	Mihail Mikov, 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u150	You must have another report. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u151	Here, in this report, it says: "Unsupported, see! [[Heckling]] But it says unsupported! Fix your report! There can be two reports with different content!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u152	Do you maintain your procedure in the manner of conduct, provided that only one is the unsupported proposal and that is by one paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u153	Exactly! The texts referred to in paragraph shall be read and reported and discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u154	Statements? Mr. Anastasov, come in. Yours is the unsupported proposal, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u155	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, last night you were very tired, more precisely we were all tired, almost asleep...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u156	Speak for yourself, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u157	I think you share all of this, but if you want to pretend to be supermen...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u158	I don't think everyone agrees with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u159	Okay, I agree, but it's obvious that maybe you didn't understand the essence of what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u160	Now? Your current offer or your previous offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u161	The present and the previous, they're identical.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u162	Because it is now being reported, this proposal is being reported today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u163	They're identical. They're identical, and if we could just not talk to each other. I'm okay with us having a cup of coffee and getting these things straight outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u164	Well, go to the MP's club and find yourself another interlocutor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u165	Let's move on, don't interrupt me anymore. The proposal is to scan the protocols in the sectional committees, not only in the district and municipal electoral committees or those abroad. Across the country, the protocols in the sectional election committees are scanned and sent, but to do the scan in ours, in the Bulgarian sectional committees. To purchase the relevant scanners once, will be purchased and enjoyed forever, and will arrive directly at the district and municipal election committees. The Central Election Commission will also arrive directly: scan it in the sectional and arrive directly at the CEC. It'll be very easy and very simple. In this way, we will eliminate the influence of manipulation, not to say the word "false" in the elections. Once it has been scanned before the election ballots and the protocols start, you can no longer replace them in the regional or municipal electoral commission. Thus, these abnormal conditions will not be obtained, as was the case in the last elections in Arena Armeec, where, outside in the corridors, there were some protocols, ballots being cast on the ground............................. Then we got angry about why they didn't vote. When they see the election forgery, or chaos, let's be softer in speech when they see the chaos, they say, "What are we going to vote for when the elections are predestined?............................................... Whatever we're entering, no squares, squares we're doing, it's still not gonna happen to challenge people to vote. So let's introduce this model to all section protocols to be scanned and sent to the Central Election Commission. In this way, we will limit the possibility of forgery, or some people who have no right to carry the ballot boxes, to carry them around on the night of the election. So I suggest that you support this proposal if you want to stop manipulation and restore people's trust in our electoral system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u166	Any lines to Mr. Anastasov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Under § 135, Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's proposal is supported. There is a proposal by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. We are voting, colleagues, the unsupported proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. [[Reply from DPS.]] I said very clearly: it is supported by Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is why I cannot put it to the vote here. Unsupported by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, this is what we are voting on right now. They voted 105 MPs: 9 against 69, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. 335, para. 1. We are voting on the Commission's report on its proposal. Vote 119 MPs: 88, against 27, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Under § 136, Mr. Georgi Anastasov proposed. The Commission does not support it. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 110 MPs: 26, against 64, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission, which is to reject § 136 by importer. Vote 116 MPs: 95 against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u167	Paragraph 137. Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: Art. 350, para. 1 is amended as follows: The right to elect members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria has the Bulgarian citizens who have reached 18 years of age on the election day, including not placed under detention and do not tolerate imprisonment. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 137: 1. In point (a), point (a) (a) After the words "In para. 1 is placed a colon and the text becomes a letter. 1; (b) points (b) and (c) shall be created: (b) the words "lived at least the last three months in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by an address registered at a permanent address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and an address registered at a current address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or in the territory of another Member State of the European Union, at least 60 days from the last three months at the date of the election being produced. (c) A sentence is created second: For living in the Republic of Bulgaria is accepted the stay outside the territory of the country and of the European Union when the Bulgarian citizen is sent there by the Bulgarian state. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) After the words "In para. 2 is placed a colon and the text becomes a letter. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (b) a point (b) is created: (b) the words "lived at least in the last three months in the Republic of Bulgaria or another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by: "they have an address of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or other Member State of the European Union, at least 60 days from the last three months before the date of the election being produced." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 137 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u168	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! What we propose as importers from BSP left Bulgaria is to have a clear regulation relating to specific facts. It's one thing to have a registration, another to have a vague concept of living I don't know where. How will you identify those who lived? Therefore, please support our text. He's more specific and clearer. With its application, there will be no contradictions or doubts about its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u170	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposals that we have made under § 137, namely for art. 350, are to arrange the place of the Bulgarian Constitution in our legal order. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in art. 350 by importer have been made proposals for people who are under suspension to be able to vote, people who suffer punishments, who are deprived of liberty, to be able to vote, which on the Bulgarian Constitution is a restriction, but with various technical means Bulgarian citizens to be limited by their constitutional right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, art. 10 of the Bulgarian Constitution says: "The choices are produced on the basis of common, equal, equal, equal and directly selective law. " 1 of our Constitution settles the issue of this and gives all Bulgarian citizens the right to be able to choose and be elected. Alinea 2 of art. 42 of our Constitution says that the laws govern only the organisation and order to produce elections and not the issue of civil rights, which is governed by the Constitution. More than that, Art. 57, para. 1...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u172	Don't shout so loud!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u173	To hear and understand! Article 57, para. 1 says: "Civil rights are indispensable. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I call on you to accept our proposals. All Bulgarian citizens should have the right and the opportunity to vote as set out in our Constitution and not through techniques in law to repeal the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Moreover, apart from the fact that these texts have abolished the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens, we agree that even citizens who are not Bulgarian citizens but are citizens of Member States of the European Union have the right to choose and be elected. We give them more rights than Bulgarian citizens! From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I urge you to accept our texts and this demagogy which we have been looking at in the last few days with the unconstitutional texts that are adopted under this Election Code, at least once, to overcome it. Once you stand on the stand and speak for a mandatory vote, what is more, you vote it as a norm in this Election Code, although the vote on the Constitution is not mandatory, but at the next moment, despite the Constitution's ban, by law you revoke constitutional rights. It's demagogy! Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u174	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. [[National Representative Chetin Kazak wants the floor.]] Colleagues, I've looked at all the groups. Did you listen carefully to the rapporteur? The Commission proposes to reject § 137, which is why we will not make any changes to this part. We're leaving the Acting Code. Isn't that what Mr. Karadaye called us to do?! Go ahead, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u175	Thank you, Madam President. There is a proposal tabled that should be justified and discussed. What the Commission proposes is a separate issue, but what is important is what the plenary will decide. This will show up during the vote. Madam President, honourable Members! I hope this time the National Assembly will capture the golden chance, the golden opportunity to correct an unacceptable anti-constitutional anti-European provision and a ban introduced by the introduction of the so-called "sedients" which deprives hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, who are also European citizens... Every Bulgarian citizen, like every citizen of Romania, as every citizen of Croatia is a European citizen, whether living in Bulgaria, Romania, America, Australia or New Zealand. They are European citizens and therefore cannot be deprived of the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament. There can be no division of residence when it comes to broadcasting the Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament. This is unacceptable!? This is a clear example of unacceptable discrimination on residence, which has no constitutional and legal basis. Sooner or later, if not this National Assembly, then one next will repeal these provisions, which are in blatant contradiction with all international legal documents guaranteeing fundamental rights and human freedoms. Now you have this chance to write your name under the decision to remove these dark-headed texts and restore constitutionality and the European kind of the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u176	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Apparently, this text is very important to the DPS. I've decided to pay more serious attention to him, but from the first speaker, from his inseparable screaming, I didn't understand anything. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u178	Please, no qualifiers!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u179	But I learned from Mr. Kazak that there was a chance that I could catch the golden opportunity and write my name down somewhere. I would ask for one further clarification, Mr. Kazak, to form my conviction and express it through my vote. Can you help me in this direction and tell me how it is in Turkey?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u180	We're not in Turkey. We are a European country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u181	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Simeonov! After hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, to put it mildly, do not love you, who live specifically in the Republic of Turkey, after your recent releases, proposals that you were able to force upon the largest political and parliamentary group of GERB, limiting the right of our compatriots around the world to vote outside diplomatic and consular offices, you managed to attract their hatred and dislike. Keep up the good work! In the end, you will only be loved by employees of Skat TV. [[Applause from DPS.]] You don't know if they'll love you, too, because workers usually don't like their boss very much. That's where you'll get to. But if you care how it is in neighbouring Turkey, Mr. Simeonov, you are a literate person, you can read. Meet, read the legislation of the Republic of Turkey and then you will give yourself answers to the questions. If you don't know Turkish, we just saw that Mr. Bayraktarov has some of it, he can help you. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u183	Any other MPs? Personal explanation Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] We'll test it on the microphone, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, from the Patriotic Front we will make every effort to comply with the Constitution and to fulfill your right and obligation to learn Bulgarian language, to speak it in part, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u185	Colleagues, please no suggestion that creates a prerequisite for insult.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u186	Just a moment, Madam President. I think the DSS convention is over. I'm sorry you're an unrealized DPS leader, but don't take your anger out here. [[Relations and excitement in DPS.]] Please! [[Reply by MP Stanislav Anastasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u187	Mr. Anastasov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I will be very brief, but please listen to me, especially GERB and the Reformation Block. [[(Radio.) Replices.)]] There's a reason for that. Dear colleagues, maintaining this situation does not allow people who live abroad who have left the country for political reasons... [[Heckling]] Yes, except for those in the southern neighbour who are victims of the revival process, colleagues from GERB and the Reformers who condemned the crimes of the totalitarian regime [[Laughter and raging]] ... It's not funny! I hope you didn't do it with a smile then. At the moment this is another slap for those people who have been deprived of political rights; they have been forced for political reasons to leave the country and today you will tell them what? There is no retribution! There is no compensation for your political rights revoked! I'm also talking about all those dissidents who live in North America, in Scandinavian countries, in Western Europe. Fellow Democrats, think about it! With this act, you align your actions to that repressive norm of the communist regime. Please don't do this. Come to your senses!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u189	- What's the line? Guys, I'm trying to get you back on the report again. We don't do anything by that text. The Commission's proposal is that there will be no changes in art. 350 and the old Code, which we are currently changing, has been voted during your majority in the Forty-second National Assembly. Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u190	Madam President! Mr. Anastasov, it is true that you want to show concern for a certain part of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian citizens living in Turkey. It is understandable. No one in this Chamber is against the rights of Bulgarian citizens either in Turkey or in the United States or in Russia or anywhere in the world. The problem that should be clearly and categorically said is that a foreign state organised the elections there and intervened directly in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, including the activities of the European Union. We do not agree with a foreign country to choose certain MEPs and they to lobby for Turkish interests. That's the fact. For this reason, you have replaced the President and he is now standing behind the old President. Don't be hypocritical, tell the truth. You say one thing and you hope another. You know that these votes from Turkey will no longer come for you. [[Radio and lines in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u191	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u192	Ms. Tsacheva, since you have also participated in the debate, allow me to clarify that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always had a consistent position for Bulgarian citizens abroad to be able to vote, the address does not define their rights. As for that little party that can't make a line without mentioning DPS or hiding behind the DPS, I really don't want to stop. Colleagues, this is about your sincere intentions. I look again with hope towards GERB and the Reformation Block. There are many Bulgarian Muslims who do not live in the Republic of Turkey but live in Western Europe, expelled from the communist regime in the 1970s. You know that very well. Including you have personal friends who are banished from the communist regime. What do we tell them now? We're sorry, but that's it. Sorry! You won't even be able to vote for that country that we wanted to change together. We don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u193	Any other MPs? Mr. Bajraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u194	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard enough motivated and unmotivated speeches in this debate. I don't think there's any point in continuing with him, so let's go ahead with the vote. My procedure is an end to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u195	In return, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u196	Madam President, I am taking a counter-proposal procedure because I wanted to speak, but obviously today Mr. Bajraktarov is starting to take part in the procedure. I am opposed to stopping for several reasons, Madam President. First, the people who brought democracy to Bulgaria in 1989, in the forty-second National Assembly together with BSP, GERB and all the others who were in this Parliament, adopted a text where you restricted their voting rights. Today you are convincing us that we are not changing anything and will reject this proposal in § 137. That's exactly what we're against. Our proposal is to give opportunity and right to all Bulgarian citizens, especially those who have contributed the most to the restoration of democracy in Bulgaria, now living in Turkey, including those who have the right to vote. Anything else that is in the area of hatred and in seeing that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is that party that can raise their 4-percent barrier is already their problem. So I suggest you give me a chance to speak up and not to call off the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u197	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate. We've heard Mr. Atalay's feedback. They voted 129 MPs: 97, against 30, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 125 MPs voted: 31, against 78, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 132 MPs: 12, against 93, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal, and that is: "Paragraph 137 by importer to be rejected." They voted 125 MPs: for 123, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u198	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: Art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the The right to be elected as Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria shall have the Bulgarian citizens who have reached 21 years of age on the election day, including, are not placed under detention, do not tolerate imprisonment, have a permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u199	Statements? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I told you earlier in a louder voice, but I guess you didn't hear. Now I will say it a little more quietly: in our opinion, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is still working, but apparently for the majority of those present here in this Chamber, it is not working. This is the Constitution of our homeland. It settles the issue of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution regulates the rights of Bulgarian citizens who can choose, the Constitution also sets the issue of Bulgarian citizens who can be elected. Moreover, in this text there is also a difference in the age of those who can be elected not for anything else, but because we are part of the European Union and the European Union directives have a slightly higher priority than our domestic legislation, as set out in art. Five on our Constitution. From this point of view, the age here is 21 years, because that is the requirement. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not Bulgarian citizens in this text and in these texts we give more rights than those of Bulgarian citizens. Do so with your voice to fulfill the oath that all of us here in this Chamber have given to uphold the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Let us also observe it by laws which are governed by the Constitution that can only regulate the organisation and order of voting, and the laws cannot contradict the Bulgarian Constitution, so that the laws we adopt here are within the framework of our Constitution, which is still in force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u201	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 25, against 85, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u202	Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 354 is The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 3 et c. 4 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 4. 58. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u203	First of all, are there any speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u204	Thank you, Madam President. I see that there are a lot of empty seats in the National Assembly, and for this reason I am doing a roll call check procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u205	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - terminated powers Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional entry for the shorthand: Angel Naydenov, Boyka Marinska, Boris Yachev, Delyan Dobrev, Borislav Iglev, Grozdan Karadzhov, Desislava Atanasova. There's a quorum, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u206	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u207	Very.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u208	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u209	That's enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u210	But 90 is too much?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u211	Colleagues, on Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's proposal for changes in art. 350, para. 1 we heard his speech. The debate is closed. It's been voted out. We have reported the proposal to Mr. Haytov and a group of MPs. We've closed the debate. I am now voting on this proposal, which the Commission does not support for changes in art. 354, para. 2. We vote, fellow Members, unsupported proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 18, against 47, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u212	There is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: Art. 360 out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u213	Statements? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Another proposal with a call to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Voices from PF and RB.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, I understand your reaction and your attitude for non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I see. However, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms as a nationally responsible political party that cares for our homeland, including for you, who gas the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and for you! Our country must become a place where justice must be observed! The rule of law must be respected! That's right, Madam President! Yes, it really is! And we, if we really want to live in a democratic, normal, rule of law European state, firstly, we MPs who adopt the laws in our country must abide by them and, above all, respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and not break the oath we have taken here in this Chamber! From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I call on you to respect the Constitution, where it is settled, in art. 5, para. 1 it is said that the laws adopted here in this Chamber cannot contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria! These texts, which we have proposed to drop, are directly involved in the Constitution because the rights of the Bulgarian citizens are regulated in art. 42 of the Bulgarian Constitution, not in the laws. It is said that the Law regulates only the order and organisation of elections. Nothing more, Art. 57 says that the rights of the Bulgarian citizens given to them under the Constitution are inalienable. From this point of view, we have proposed these texts in order to at least partially enter this Election Code within the framework of the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you to support our proposal, support the future of Bulgaria, because those people you are trying to limit their constitutional rights today have brought democracy to Bulgaria! They made it a democratic Constitution! Moreover, on the basis of their actions, based on their burdens and suffering, we are here today in this Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u215	Any lines to Mr. Karadaye?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it has been a little too much for me to listen to the same thing several times by Mr Karadayi and I would like to remind him that he has been elected President of the DPS and not of the Constitutional Court. I do not think anyone can seize the functions of the Constitutional Court and here interpret which decision of the National Assembly is constitutional and which is unconstitutional. If you have such great claims on all the texts that you believe are unconstitutional, collect 48 signatures and mourn the Constitutional Court to rule, and not here to explain what a Constitution was and whether it had soil in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u217	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u218	Dear Mr. Ivanov, we understand you and you! We understand you don't want to read the Constitution. [[Loud laughter at GERB.]] We understand that you do not want to follow the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We understand that you tried to mislead the entire Bulgarian people with the oath you took in this Chamber. We got that, too! And we see how, ladies and gentlemen, only the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is committed to the topic of democracy in our country, [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] , with the subject of the rule of law, with the subject of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Ivanov. I also call on you to get acquainted with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the specifically quoted texts which I quoted earlier in my speech. We will also provide you with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to get acquainted and then to be able to speak and identify those texts, in your opinion, which are not broken because we believe the texts in the Constitution are very clear, despite your emotions and prejudices. Thank you for your attention. [[The National Representative Mustafa Karadaye goes to the bank of the National Representative Svilen Ivanov and provides him with a copy of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Announcements by GERB: "With a signature, if you can!".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u219	Any other MPs? Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u220	I wasn't going to say it, but the constantly repeating words of democracy, Constitution, Rights and Democracy, Constitution, Rights challenged me to go out and say something very important. The combination between our Constitution and the legislation for these 25 years determines and arranges things so that people who live out of the country for a long time and have little to do with it except their memories, decide its fates, which can't be. This can't be happening! No matter how hard our colleagues are in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms between us and them, I have told you several times, there lies a fundamental gap. It is that Bulgaria is their country, and the country is Turkey, and ours is that Bulgaria is our country and our country. [[Radio: "Oooh! "]] Yes, your country is Turkey, and you can't argue with that! Your country is Bulgaria. You protect yourself, your own society, but respect us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u221	Let's go back to texting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u222	Because I will remind you of what Mr. Yunal Lütfi said here in the 40th National Assembly: "Bulgaria is a biethnic state. It is a country of Turks and of Bulgarians. The language and culture must be equal! - I mean, you have a claim to us, to our Homeland and to our self-value and independence. You're 78 million and we're only 5 million! What do you want us to surrender? That's not gonna happen! [[Laughter]] What you're saying, you don't have to laugh at me. [[to members of the MRF]] You can't disprove me! You here, from the stands, speak only of European values. I'm not a Euro-Atlantic! For me, your Euro-Atlantic values consist of robbery, corruption and debauchery! It's them! Nothing more! [[DPS noise.]] If you come out here to argue about this, I will prove to you that neoliberalism is a fascism, a system of values that puts money in front of man.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u223	We are going beyond the specific text of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u224	You have a fascism, gentlemen! There's nothing to deal with! We will not give up on you because we want to stay Bulgarians, to live in Bulgaria, not to become a Turkish province, which is exposed and written by many of your politicians, by your Prime Minister and is constantly expressed by your President. That's not gonna happen! There's no way!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u225	Fascist. [[Replications of MP Stanislav Stanilov to the MPs from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u226	Colleagues, please control the emotions! Let us return to the debate on specific texts at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u227	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u228	Wait a minute! First there are lines, Mr. Kazak. I'll give you an opportunity to conduct a procedure. First line, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u229	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stanilov! Bulgarian citizens are equal according to our Constitution [[Laughter at GERB.]] I didn't define ethnicity or religion to anyone. I don't want anyone else to define my ethnicity and my religion. These days, I hope, have passed 26 years ago, Mr. Stanilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u230	I didn't define ethnicity to anyone...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u231	I hope so. I don't want anyone to define my country. My country is Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u232	But your country is Turkey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u233	My country is Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't want anyone to know who or what I'm gonna be. My struggle and our struggle is to have the rights and freedoms to define ourselves in our homeland and in our country to live as equal citizens, respecting all the laws of the country and the supreme law of the Constitution, which says that other laws cannot contradict it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u234	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stanilov, with a controlled emotion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u235	You, sir, have not heard what I have said, because what you have spoken has nothing to do with my speech. I never claimed not to define yourself as a Turk, you are a Turk, and there is no doubt about it. What are we talking about? I didn't say you weren't Turks! You are Turks, Turkish diaspora in Bulgaria and as Bulgarian citizens you have absolutely all rights. But you want us to give rights to people who don't live here. Imagine that one day the Bulgarian Parliament takes and cancels the dual citizenship as it is in Germany and most European countries! So what do we do? Are you going to say they've been violated again? No rights have been violated, and no one violates them, nor do they forbid you to speak Turkish, nor do they forbid you to study Turkish! None of this is forbidden to you by laws or by a Constitution, nor do we have any claim. I've told you many times from here the fault is civilized, it's geocultural. You can't avoid that. It's decided by history! As far as you're concerned, pretending to be multiculturalists, you just don't stand a chance! This system has failed. Mrs Merkel in 2010 I have a recording of her speech, what she says. It's a lost cause. This can't exist! But you've lived here with us for nearly 150 years, and you still haven't realized that we're completely different people. Vera Mutafchieva wrote it. We have lived half a millennium together and have never been equal and equal in the sense that you want us to be now. Now there is no doubt that the Constitution and the democracy that is in our country provides you with absolutely all the rights. You are in vain with your claims and your efforts to get more, to have priority. You're always blaming us for this rebirth process and whatnot. This has nothing to do with the truth! The truth is one thing: You are equal Bulgarian citizens and you are respected by everyone, and those pushes in parliament only interfere with this togetherness that you claim. You're breaking up with us, not us. You! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u236	Mr. Anastasov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u237	Mrs. Tsacheva, you are obviously trying to be tolerant in the debate, but when you are being crossed by any boundaries of tolerance and normality, I ask you to be a little more sharp. Please do not allow any of the MPs here to share the hall with you and us. Each of us represents the whole Bulgarian people, representing absolutely all Bulgarian citizens in and out of Bulgaria. Even less allowing a MP to speak on behalf of one or another ethnicity. Dear colleagues, there are political parties here in this Chamber. If someone puts their party on ethnic level, that's his problem. This is his understanding of Bulgaria. Ours isn't like that. We have policies for everyone. Mrs. Tsacheva, I will ask once again: when someone affords to share the hall, to share the Bulgarian people with you and us, to interrupt it immediately. The Bulgarian people are indivisible. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u238	Colleagues, Mr. Anastasov is right in his claims. I am trying with maximum tolerance to make this House work, as we still have a lot of work to do. On several occasions, interrupting a speaking MP, I try to return it to the particular text we are debating. It is very easy to resort to disciplinary measures, but I do not think this should be the finale of our spring session. Therefore, for the last time, I invite you to adhere to the norms of our Rules of Procedure, to the texts of the Constitution in which we have all sworn. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u239	Madam President. No Member of the National Assembly may appear on the stand and instruct other Members of the National Assembly what to determine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u240	But not to be answered in the same style, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u241	He doesn't feel the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u242	That's how you did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u243	The definitions of what the Bulgarian people are cannot be made. I know it better than he does! To be ashamed of my white hair, because for 57 years in science I deal with the ethnogenesis of the Bulgarian people. All I'm saying from the stands is my knowledge of this problem. You with democratic talk and giggling from the previous banks will not change history. You can't rewrite it because what's here is condemned once and for all! It's the result of a thousand years of existence. You can't write it. Don't think this could happen. It can't be... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Finally, I will conclude with a quote from the great German statesman Prince Bismarck, who said the following. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u244	Mr. Stanilov, you have a procedure for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u245	That statesman, who does not listen to God's footsteps, always fails! In that case, you'll fail. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u246	A moment ago, I called on you to control your emotions. Mr. Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u247	Madam President, I have a procedure. The debate has been going on long enough. It's not the first time it's flown.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u248	There's no debate going on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u249	I'd like to remind you, because there have been several references to the Constitution. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 2011 on the same topic. The Constitutional Court has ruled on all these matters. If anyone doesn't know it, I won't give it away, let them read it. I think my colleagues know that. Therefore, I propose that the debate be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u250	Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u251	Thank you. Madam President, only two Members of Parliament have spoken on this paragraph. If this is what Mr. Lazarov calls the "debat" then we have a drastic gap in our ideas for a debate in this National Assembly. Everything else was outbursts, emotions that had nothing to do with rational reason. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been requests for a speech. I have also stated a statement, so allow at least two more three speeches to say that there has indeed been a debate on this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u252	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate on this proposal. Vote 109 MPs: 85, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs the whole art. 360 down. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 100 MPs: 19 against 62, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u253	Proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 361, para. 2 t. 1 drops out and the other points are renumbered accordingly. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u254	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u255	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I hope, however, that the debate will return to the calm tone and that the serious legal arguments that we are trying to highlight will be heard. They should not be opposed to the emotions of people who have remained in history, in the past, and nothing new has been adopted in the past 25 years. What we appeal for is really to guarantee the equal rights of all Bulgarian citizens to participate in the elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u256	Excuse me, Mr. Kazak. Colleagues of the record, take pictures upstairs in a way that is not regulated. [[It points to the balcony of the Chamber.]] You are present and observed this way without reacting. We're listening, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u257	Thank you, Madam President. What we appeal for is to respect the spirit and letter of the Constitution. When it says that all citizens are equal, no matter where they live, it is a clear and clear text. When it says that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to vote, this is a clear and clear text. Everything else, whether it is even a decision of the Constitutional Court, an honourable colleague of GERB, will not mention your name, whether it is a decision of the Constitutional Court, is contrary to the spirit and letter of the Constitution. The fact that a decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg recently came out, which condemned Bulgaria precisely because of an unacceptable decision of the Bulgarian Constitutional Court, which deprived thousands of Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey of their valid votes in the 2009 parliamentary elections, is clear evidence that even the Constitutional Court allows itself to step on the spirit and letter of the Constitution. From this point of view, I and we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms appeal that you do not remain blind and deaf to the spirit and letter of the Constitution! To protect what she has proclaimed, whether there is or there is no constitutional solution to the issue of sedentaryness or not. As you can see, over two million Bulgarian citizens live permanently abroad. Many of them live in countries outside the European Union. They will not forgive you for treating them as second-hand Bulgarian citizens. They will not forgive you for not being European by denying them the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u258	- What's the line? Mrs. Tasheva, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u259	Mr. Kazak, I don't know how many times you're going out to remind me of an event you should be ashamed of. You are referring to the 2009 elections when only 23 of the hundreds of sections opened in Turkey were cast because of frapantic forgeries! I would like to tell you that at that time in each section, more than 1,000 people had voted in... 1365 people.! They voted 1363 for the DPS! The protocols didn't have any, none of the correct, grammatically completed protocols. The total number of the actual ballots is, for example, 40, and otherwise they voted 1300 or more. In addition, I suggest that if you take advice, of course, you stop tossing around with the European Court of Human Rights. Go and read his papers. You will see that almost every page of this European Court, which is not an institution of the European Union, convinces people that the European Court of Human Rights is not a fourth instance. National courts solve their problems. So to speak, he only imposes fines. The European Court of Human Rights is the only functioning institution of a cold war cannon, the Council of Europe, created after Churchill's fulden speech. Many countries, not only us in Bulgaria, not just us in "Ataka" we have proposed through our media Bulgaria to leave this Union. Other countries to come out, for example, the Czech Republic, because its decisions are geopolitically motivated. It is aimed at the breakdown of national states, it is the European Court of Justice! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] People like you will make it so that it really falls apart.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u260	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr Kazak, so far from your recent statements, including that, most of all, your orientation is that through these texts, most of all, you want to allow Bulgarian citizens who live permanently in the territory of the Republic of Turkey to vote for elections for the European Parliament through your proposals. No matter how helpfully you veil with other Member States, whether they felt European or not, I believe that their feelings they declare them through the place where they live at the current address. I have therefore and obnoxious arguments of yours for the case you are referring to of Mr. Ruchen Riza in the European Court of Human Rights who condemned Bulgaria, but did not cancel the Constitutional Court's decision because, if I am not mistaken, the Constitutional Court is the highest state authority. If I am also not mistaken, this decision states that there is no possibility for a second choice and for a correction of these votes. In the very decision of the Constitutional Court, from where there are a number of proposals on the Patriotic Front, which we have supported, the following is written: in elections there is a factual impossibility to vote more than 936 people in one election day unless we make the election day 24 hours. Your proposals in these texts are inappropriate. Your citation of the Constitution is also inappropriate because in the Constitution itself it is written that the electoral rules and procedures are governed by law and we are examining this law. The constant citation of the Constitution does not mean that we need to replace this law just because you came out to quote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u262	Third line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u263	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Colleague Kazak, do you know what is the most condemned state in the European Court of Human Rights? I'll tell you France, she's been sentenced to over 3,500 cases. Is France a democratic state? It's a lot more democratic than we are. I'll tell you something else. The great Roman lawyer Quintalian says that sometimes higher law creates high injustice. The European Court of Human Rights is also created by people, they are also able to make mistakes. So don't wave us as a guiding star and flag the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights! I give you an example of France, the most condemned country in the European Union is France. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u264	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u265	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! France is far from the best example of respect for human rights [[SHOUTING AND SPEAKING IN P.F.]] That's right! The European Court of Human Rights, my dear Mr. Atanasov, is really monitoring the respect of the European Convention on Human Rights in all the member states of the Council of Europe. You know that the Council of Europe is an organisation dedicated exclusively to the subject of respect for fundamental democratic principles, standards and human rights. It is no accident that the European Court of Human Rights is flooded by cases from all these countries. You cannot compare countries such as France, Russia, Turkey, where there are tens of millions of people living and naturally there are many more cases, which are abiding in front of their courts, with Bulgaria. No such mechanical comparison of numbers can be made. Naturally, the human rights situation is nowhere pink, but that does not mean that we in Bulgaria should close our eyes and not respect the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. The fact is that the European Court of Human Rights condemned Bulgaria for this decision of the Constitutional Court, which allegedly was in line with the Constitution, allegedly found that there were some violations in sections in Turkey. Not at all! I can give you, just now, at the beginning of the meeting, I gave Mr. Karakachanov a whole list of sections in Europe and in America, where many over 1,000 voters voted in one section. [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]] That's right. Take the file, it's at Mr. Karakachanov's and you'll see it. You, too, from Ataka, can see it and I can give you this folder. There are sections in America, Spain, Britain, in Austria, where all elections are regularly voted out by 1500, even 2,000 people. However, none of you raises the question of whether there are any accidental violations, additions and so on. No, you're only leaning towards Turkey because that's your pain. You stayed at the end of the 19th century. That's your problem, especially you there. [[Shows the bottom of the hall.]] You haven't learned anything new. You're made of prejudice, of things you studied as a student 50 years ago, and nothing new after that. I hope that sooner or later your generation will naturally not continue to solve Bulgaria's problems, the new, young generation will change Bulgaria for the better. This is my hope. Thank you. [[(Noise and shout from DPS: "Bravo! ") Replies from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u266	I take it that the phrase from the student years 50 years ago there is no other MP to refer to, as Mr. Stanilov and Mr. Stefan Danailov are our most respected and oldest colleagues. Out of respect for them, we're listening. Mr. Stanilov, we recognized you from your age.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u267	The helo in the front row can't humiliate me. I've been doing research for over half a century, and I've never stopped reading, and I know literature, and modern, and everything. I have publications in foreign languages, up to the last minute published and books in Germany and in Austria, so what Mr. Kazak is showing here that I have been backward and so on is just an attempt to be mocked. You hope for the young generation that it will be zombie, liberalized and so on. Don't get your hopes up. We have children and grandchildren. They are brought up at home with our books and our words. Don't get your hopes up. Get your reality. As Mr. Recep Erdogan said, deal with reality. This is reality. History has decided to live together and not know each other. Make peace with us living together because you don't accept and want us to live in the Ottoman Empire. [[Radio and laughter in DPS.]] That's not gonna happen! In the history of the world, there is no case to restore the empire. No empire is a recovery, so Ahmet Davutoglu has much health from God, in whose footsteps he does not listen. You're not listening, either. And don't try to explain to us how unenlightened I am, because you have to come out with the written word and write that I write untruth, to disprove me, to justify yourself and so on. That's funny stuff. You can't humiliate me, you can't touch me. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u268	Dear colleagues, historical comments are useful and if we had time, we would have given them much more than plenary time. I would like to remind you that, although with a vote on the Easter vacation of the National Assembly, if we do not do our job, we may be gathered on 3 May to finish it. [[Radio.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u269	Madam President, honourable Members! Since we've heard all sorts of these, and certainly, if we continue to stretch out locumi, we'll hear many more different ones, so I suggest we lower the tember of speech, master the political rhetoric, because we're on the eve of a bright Christian holiday. I propose closing the debate and voting on a procedure for closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u270	Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u271	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am making a back-to-back procedural proposal, because it is precisely Mrs Karayancheva who does not suit herself to make such a procedural proposal. Such a proposal may be made by one of those on duty on this issue either from GERB or from the Patriotic Front, but, Ms. Karayancheva, you have voters including in the Republic of Turkey. You went around, I remember, even in the Republic of Turkey, setting up structures of GERB. So it is up to you to finish, to prep a debate that aims precisely to ensure equal opportunities to vote on the European elections does not suit you. You will not be liked in this way by the sympathizers of GERB neither in Kardzhaliysko nor in the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u272	We are voting on the proposal to end the debate. They voted 102 MPs: 82, against 20, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal for changes in art. 361, para. 2, p. 1. They voted 113 MPs: 27, against 71, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, the committees that are sitting, enjoy your work. It's an hour off. We'll meet here at 3:00 sharp. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u273	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. Before the break from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they wanted a re-vote. Mr. Imamov, your group asked for a re-vote. I don't know if the people's representative who wanted a re-vote is in the room. Dear colleagues of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, would either of you like a re-vote? [[Reply from DPS: No!]] We'll continue with the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u274	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 365, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." an application form declaration from each candidate that it agrees to be registered by its proposed party, coalition or initiative committee and that it meets the conditions under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 or 2, indicating a permanent address and a single civil number, and under art. 364, para. 1 or 3; 2. Points 4 and 5 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u275	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content in accordance with its report. Vote 73 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u276	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 138, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "one petition' shall be replaced by "one list'. 2. In para. 4 words "4, 5 and 6" shall be replaced by "6."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u277	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 138, which shall be supported and edited by the Commission and shall be annexed in its report with the corresponding numbering. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u278	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 139, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u279	We are voting § 139 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The text of the importer for § 139 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u280	According to § 140, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: I've got 140 to go. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 140, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u281	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 73 MPs: 13 against 47, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 140, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u282	Vote 80 MPs: 74 against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u283	Under § 141, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 141, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 371 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter in which it is written "I do not support anyone. 2. In para. 3 the words "s 3' are replaced by "s 3' and "s 5'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u284	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to amend § 141, which shall make changes to art. 371. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 83 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u285	The Commission proposes to create a new § 118: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 375 words or in a place under art. 14, p. Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone this paragraph as it relates...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u286	Yeah, because it's related to the extra paper on art. 14, as extra we'll watch it when we're done with the basics. Okay, report the next text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u287	Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs: A new § 142 is being created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 385, para. 3 is amended as follows: The parties and coalitions who received not less than 4 percent of the actual votes in the country and abroad have the right to participate in the distribution of mandates at national level. Paragraph 142 of the Law provides that the Act is no longer applicable. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u288	Statements? I won't. Did this turn out to be in connection with the second additional report? No, there's no connection. Got it. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 84 MPs: 8 against 6, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u289	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 9a is being created with the text: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 386, para. 2, the text supposed to a hundred of the votes submitted for the candidate list shall be replaced by a hundred per cent of the national electoral quota and shall be replaced by a hundred per cent of the national electoral quota. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u290	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 5 against 43, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u291	Under § 142, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: Art. 396 A.D. 1 is amended as follows: The right to elect municipal councillors and mayors has the Bulgarian citizens who are 18 years old to the election day, including not placed under an obstacle, do not suffer punishment for imprisonment. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 142 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u292	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 93 MPs: 15 against 58, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 142 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on a proposal from the Commission, colleague. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, it is not right, if someone has considerations and other suggestions, not to expose them to the public representation. Vote 100 MPs: 57 against 18 abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Since the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 142 has not been accepted, I must put the paragraph to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, there was currently a proposal from the Commission to reject § 142, which was not adopted by the national representation. Having rejected the Commission's proposal to reject the importing paragraph, I now put to the vote § 142 to an importer, which says that in art. 396 A.D. 1 and para. 2 prior to the word "concession" is added to the word "full" and after the word "freedom" is added for "serious crimes." [[Noise and lines.]] I get it. The Venice Commission... [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]] I'm voting § 142 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 64 against 17, abstention 16. Paragraph 142 by importer has been accepted for a change in art. 396 A.D. 1 and para. 2. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u293	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a memory that we rejected such a paragraph earlier. Well, the Venice Commission, but we still have a Constitution, and I need to use that word once today. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause.]] I suggest we stick to it, and I have a memory that we have previously rejected such a paragraph. Let us not accept different things for different kinds of elections, so I propose a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u294	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 104 MPs: 56 against 36, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] That's not acceptable. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Ah, you've voted against, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u295	He's out again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u296	Once again, we have dropped out and essentially supported the Commission's proposal, but we have demonstrated compliance with certain recommendations of the Venice Commission, which have not been supported in this House. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u297	Thank you, Madam President. You were right in your last sentence that you only take into account some recommendations from the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u298	Which were rejected by the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u299	With just a few recommendations of the Venice Commission you are trying to comply with, however, with the Bulgarian Constitution [[Laughter and raging]] You don't want to take it lightly. Colleagues, just before this re-vote, you had voted on a text with which those placed under detention and those imprisoned can vote in local elections, only that art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution says who has the right to vote. And this demagogy, which we are looking at today in this Chamber, to those who are restricted by the Constitution to try to give the right to vote, on the one hand, on the other hand, the rights granted under the Constitution to the Bulgarian citizens who are inalienable, to restrict them, including the failure to accept the exact same § 142, where we have correctly made a proposal by writing the text of the Constitution and nothing else we have written. Only the text of the Constitution was our proposal, which you did not accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u300	Second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, take some people together that hang the quorum by a thread, and do not have to ask for re-voting again, to remind you, including from the Reformation Block, that there is a Constitution above all. [[Laughter and excitement.]] There is a Constitution above all, and you almost passed a text that would give prisoners convicted of crime and imprisoned to vote. Also, persons placed under an obstacle would have voted and completely normal Bulgarian citizens who did not commit any crime, but in the last six months they did not live in Bulgaria would not have been able to vote in local elections. This is what absurdity you would have led to if you hadn't listened to the voice of reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u302	Thank you. The next paragraph is the proposal for changes to art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u303	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: Art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of The right to be elected as municipal councillors and mayors has the Bulgarian citizens who are 18 years old to the election day, including, are not placed under detention, do not tolerate imprisonment. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u304	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u305	Thank you, Madam President. I come out again to remind that there is a Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria [[Laughter and raging]] which is still active.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u306	Colleagues, I ask for serious treatment of the basic law of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u307	Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, with the last vote, I am now encouraged that some of the people present in this Chamber may have been enlightened that it would be appropriate to observe the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I call on us to observe the Constitution of Bulgaria not only sometimes, but always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u308	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: 20, against 60, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u309	Paragraph 143. Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: The following Appendix shall be made in § 143: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 402 is The decisions of the Central Election Commission under para 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 2 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 2. 58. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 143, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u310	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Haytov and a group not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 21, Against 14, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 43, which will receive a new numbering in the report. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 17, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u311	The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: In Chapter 18, Section IV is created art. 405a: Art. 405a. The mayors of municipalities and district governors shall carry out six months before general elections for municipal councilors and for mayors check according to the order of art. 99b of the Civil Registration Act of all address registrations made in the last 12 months. The inspection shall be completed no later than three months before the general election is produced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u312	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u313	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to express my concerns about another mistake in this Law. She's not little at all. The mayors of municipalities and district governors shall carry out six months before general elections for municipal councilors and for mayors check according to the order of art. 99b of the Civil Registration Act of all address registrations made in the last 12 months. The inspection shall be completed no later than three months before the election is made. Colleagues, I'll tell you what art. 99a of the Law on Civil Registration: The number of persons who can register at the current address of a residence with the consent of the owner of the residence shall not exceed three times the number of persons who can normally live in the dwelling. "This means that if five people live in one house or apartment, there may not be more than 15 persons. My question to importers is: how will they be registered and how will these people legally be identified at these addresses where they are registered 50 times 100, 200 people? That is precisely why, fellow Members, we have already submitted a proposal for a change to the Civil Registration Act at the beginning of the term. We believe that we will have difficulties here once again. On absolutely all the lists that will be made, or a very large part of them will be dropped, will not appear, and what will happen to these people at all? The committees that will go around six months before the elections will violate the Law because they are actually illegally housed there. I believe that our proposal, which we made at the beginning of the mandate to amend the Law on Civil Registration and the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, even now is the time, colleagues, to remind you not only to vote your laws, because the Prime Minister told you, or Valeri Simeonov... You're intelligent, literate people. There are no random people between you. Let's think about the Bulgarian citizens, let's think about Bulgaria! True, we are all tired, but this is a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u314	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u315	Dear Mr. Iliev, perhaps you have not understood that we are adopting the most democratic Election Code, where we have already accepted that the vote is mandatory?! The vote is mandatory, Mr. Iliev! More than that, Mr. Iliev. I want to remind you that there is an art. 5, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution, where it is said that the Constitution is a supreme law and other laws cannot contradict it. Mr. Iliev, there's something else. Maybe you didn't understand that either. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution is said: The main rights of the citizens are inalienable. "So the vote is mandatory, and the Constitution works, so that the right of citizens to vote is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u316	Second line? I won't. A hole? You won't use it. Mrs. Karayancheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u317	Madam President, honourable Members! It is a good thing that there are several parties to understand that there is a Constitution. Dear colleagues, we also respect the Constitution, we are working on a Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u318	Please, on the proposal for a new article. 405!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u319	What has been noted in this article is a result of our desire to limit the movement of large groups of people by election, six months before local elections are registered at certain places. You know that during the local elections small groups of people can change the vote radically. That's the idea of this term. Why do you have to do a check? I will tell you what happened in Kardzhaliysko in 2015 in the local elections. It has been reported that mayors of settlements have registered address people who do not live in the territory of Kardzhali district at all. Even they don't know. Address registration is filled out by the municipal mayor. That's 1,500 cases!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u320	Give an example!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u321	The mayor filled out the address card and even signed the guy. Such proceedings are currently being conducted in the prosecution. This has been established by the police. My infinitely many signals, which I send to the police, the prosecution and to the mayors of the municipalities, were not deregistered by those persons who were registered without the necessary attributes which enjoined the Law on Civil Registration. 92, para. 2 - Address card, documents for use of the property for residential purposes, including a contract for providing a social service of resident type, accommodation contract and so on. I'm not reading them right now. All of this needs to be checked. This article is precisely for this reason... whether the people registered address have only an address card submitted to the City, or have all the attributes needed to be registered. What's more, we've added... The mayors didn't want to register those people who were illegally registered. So they remained on the electoral lists. However, there is now a reference to the governor of the district and if the mayor, within three days of proven violations, does not take action to register these people, then the governor has the task of clearing the lists. These are steps to stop this election movement of people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u322	The governor of the district is an employee of a party!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u323	And the mayor of what is an employee?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u324	Colleagues, please! You have the opportunity for lines! Here's your first line, Mr. Ahmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u325	Madam President, honourable Members! It seems that the colleague Karayancheva is leading the investigation into Kardzhali with this case. Ms. Karayancheva, there can only be one precedent somewhere, by the way, has not been proven as the competent authorities are currently carrying out this check. You are currently condemning people from this tribune. Don't let that happen! Let us wait for the competent authorities to do their work, to come up with some opinion, so we know what this is about. That can't be grounds for you to offer this thing and protect it from this tribune. I have such a request for you. Then, dear colleagues, dear Members of the House! This electoral code when we tell you that there is a Constitution, you jump on your feet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u326	Who's jumping up and down? Why would we jump?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u327	You're all jumping. I don't know why. Follow the Constitution! We've told you a thousand times what it is. We oblige them to vote and, at the same time, in all Members, we restrict how to vote these people. Where do they register? Do these people have to go to a game to vote?! Then why did you oblige them? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u328	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Karayancheva. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Colleagues, the replica of the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u329	Because things have become too Kardzhali, it's not a precedent, colleague. One thousand and five hundred are the address registrations. There are mayors of settlements who have already been held accountable. Check this thing out. About obligation and limitation. Since you are referring to the Constitution, the laws of this country must be respected, and this concerns everyone. You as MPs should also respond to signals. There can be no only one address card signed by the mayor "X" to be inserted and registered this person. There must be a complete set of documents. This thing will be properly checked. Thank you. [[Relation of lines between the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Mustafa Ahmed.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u330	Mr. Mihov. [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]] He wants a procedure, and I have to give the procedure first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u331	Madam President, honourable Members, we all understand that there is a Constitution. I'm getting into character. You challenged me. I propose that we put an end to the debate on this paragraph and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u332	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u333	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I cannot understand what this tension is in this House. My request is to calm down a little. So far we have adopted the Election Code of GERB and the Patriotic Front, now we have started to make the Election Code for Kardzhali. Dear colleagues, the proposal that has been made, and what Mr. Iliev has told you, is to achieve the objective of the Election Code. Let us calm down so that the purpose of the Code is to establish rules on how and how to make it easier for citizens to go to vote and not how not to vote. The question with this paragraph is: the registered 200-300 people at one address Once the checks are carried out, when there should be 15 people left there, the remaining 150 people are written off and we say to them, "You have no right to vote." Before that, we agreed that it is imperative that every citizen who lives in Bulgaria goes to vote compulsory. Guys, what are you doing?! Stop the hate! Stop doing election code against DPS! Stop doing the Election Code of GERB and the Patriotic Front. Make an Election Code for the citizens of Bulgaria. Madam President, let's stop with the procedures of Mr. Mihov and Bajraktarov. It's a good thing he's gone so that we can be serious MPs and take a serious look at the Election Code. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u334	I shall put to the vote the procedure taken to end the debates on the proposed new article. 405, which has no name on the Commission report. Someone has to offer us his name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u335	Dear Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal as art. 405a has no title, I propose a title: [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u336	Colleagues, I'm going to vote on the termination procedure. The text of the Commission report shall be without name. Once the procedure is terminated, there is no possibility of editorial additions. I shall put to the vote the procedure taken to put an end to the debate. 110 MPs voted: 24, against 22, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. The debate continues. What do you suggest, Mrs. Alexandrova? You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u337	Dear Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal as art. 405a has no title, I suggest to create a title and to be called:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u338	Any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u339	Thank you, Madam President. I will make a specific editorial proposal based on the text that is in front of us. I propose that the words and the district rulers drop out of the text, as well as the order of art. 99b of the Law on Civil Registration (Civil Registration) is also to be removed from the text. The text to continue, instead of a point continues every Bulgarian citizen is included in the electoral list at his permanent address. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u340	- What's the line? I won't. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u341	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. In twenty, thirty minutes, you've allowed Mr. Atalay twice to use reverse speaking procedure, which is not right. We are not obliged to listen to his comments during a procedure. We want you to be stricter with people who do procedures so that the rules can be respected. And since someone downstairs barks, and occasionally forgets their Constitution, I also suggest that a Constitution sit here so that they can show it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u342	Colleagues, Mr. Angelov is right that sometimes procedural speech is used to develop arguments on the substance, which is unacceptable. Please comply with this rule of our Rules. [[National representative from the DPS requests the floor for a personal explanation.]] You may make a personal explanation if you are mentioned in a speech by a Member of the National Assembly, and he has made a procedure for me in the manner of conduct. That's what it was to me, so there's no way. Any other MPs taking part in the debate? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal for the name of proposals by the Commission to create a new art. 405a All members of the Code shall have a name. We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 92, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Karadayi's editorial proposal, as he put it, and it is written in the transcript. We are voting on Mr. Karadayi's proposal. Vote 110 MPs: 28 against 70 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are voting on the name and wording of the report of the Commission of the new art. 405a, which the Commission is proposing to us to create. Vote 112 MPs: 88, against 23, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u343	Proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs.......................................................................................... 409 out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u344	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u345	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: It is indicated that from the electoral lists citizens are deleted on the basis of some technical data and instruments, for example an address is indicated in the specific text of art. 409. We offer art. 409 to be dismissed, not because of something else, but because in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly [[GERB noise and lines]] We could not find any reason for such a restriction of the rights of Bulgarian citizens to be able to vote. From this point of view, if anyone can convince us that there is such a basis for our Constitution and succeed in indicating a text on which this article is based. 409, we could think. But there is something more, ladies and gentlemen of the House. We find texts in the Constitution as art. 42, para. 1, where it is said that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to vote. Moreover, we find texts as art. 10 of the Bulgarian Constitution, where it is said that the elections are produced on the basis of equal suffrage. Moreover, we find art. 57, para. 1 in the Constitution, our Constitution, where it is said: these Constitutional Rights, which we have so far read, are inalienable. We find art. 5, para. 1 in our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, where it is written that laws cannot contradict the Constitution. From this point of view, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have proposed art. 409 down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u346	- What's the line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u347	I had already declared a procedure earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u348	I have to run the rules. [[Noise and lines.]] Now we'll hear what he has to say on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u349	Madam President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u350	A reverse opinion? I won't. [[Replys from DPS. People's representative Chetin Kazak wants the floor.]] Mr. Kazak, you're going to make a point. That's what worries me. I just got my attention on this. I'll cut you off if you get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u351	No, Madam President. I hope we still don't make Gabrovo jokes about...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u352	Well, you two are sitting next to each other, and now you're doing the whole Gabrovo room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u353	Colleague Mihov came and sat with us. Apparently, he has an affinity for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Noise and glad tidings.]] The feelings are almost mutual. However, Madam President, let's not make Gabrovo jokes. There was only one statement. A termination procedure cannot be made at the first speech. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Otherwise, the House of Humour and Satire will be transferred to the Bulgarian Parliament, which is not the best thing. I hope you don't put this procedural proposal to the vote at all. To give at least two more speeches and then proceed to this procedure. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Otherwise, the meeting becomes a farce.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u354	Mr. Kazak, I must obey the regulations of the Rules. A procedural proposal shall be allowed to be made immediately. I've given you an opportunity to think back. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u355	Let each MP sit in his seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u356	From what I can see, I'm under the impression that Mr. Kazak invited him. If Mr. Kazak opposes or the chair owner makes an objection, I will react immediately. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Abort the vote. 100 MPs voted: 77, against 21, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs for dropping out of art. 409 of the Election Code, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 20, against 70, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u357	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote. The colleague from Gabrovo was with us and distracted some colleagues and therefore could not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u358	I thought you would suggest that we wait for our colleagues from BSP to return to the Chamber. Here comes Mr. Popov so he can vote. [[GERB lines.]] Revoting, coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u359	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u360	Colleagues, it wasn't that long ago. We are minutes away from revoting Mr Karadayi's proposal, which he defended, but the Commission does not support it. Abort the vote. They voted 111 MPs: 23, against 77, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. [[National representatives of the DPS are leaving the Chamber. National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor for a negative vote.]] First negative vote, Mr. Ramadan Atalay. You didn't support your proposal? Did you vote for him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u361	I didn't vote for....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u362	Why didn't you support your proposal? [[Shout, noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u363	To get a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u364	Let's see how Mr. Karadaye voted. Check how he voted. You voted against it. Mr. Atalay, protect your thesis. [[Noise and glad tidings in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u365	My fellow Members, I have called you to seriousness, I have called on you to behave as responsible Members of the National Assembly in this Chamber! I've been in this room for many years, many times we've passed election law and election code. Whenever the rulers have behaved as brazenly as you are now, as unpardonly as the so-called Patriots, there have always been subsequent elections, and much of these insolent people have not been seen since in this room. Thank you. [[Private applause from the DPS. People's representatives from the DPS are coming out of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u366	Second negative vote? I won't. We continue with the proposal of Mr. Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u367	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 414 para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." an application form declaration from each candidate that it agrees to be registered by its proposed party, coalition or initiative committee and that it meets the conditions under art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 or 2 and under art. 413 para. 1, 2, 3 and 4. 2. Points 4 and 5 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u368	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for a new paragraph amending art. 414 para. 1. Colleagues, we are voting on the Commission's version. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u369	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: Art. 415 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u370	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, in view of the previous votes, I call on you not to support the version of the Commission in order for the text of the Code to be relevant to what we have adopted so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u372	Colleagues, I'm stating............................................................................................. 415 currently under the current Election Code states: "The parties or coalitions that participate in the composition of local coalitions for a particular kind of choice cannot register their own candidate lists or candidates for the same kind of choice. In the report it is proposed to cancel this text, but we already have, as Mr. Mitev said, basically and consistently held in the texts understanding that there is no ban on registering local coalitions, therefore there is no way to remove this text. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission art. 415 to be cancelled, for which Mr. Mitev apparently suggested that we disregard the Commission's opinion, and I indirectly remind you what the text of the Election Code itself says. We vote. They voted 91 MPs: 1 against 48, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u373	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is to start by voting on the additional reports and, in particular, the report which concerns art. 297 of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u374	Now, right here in this place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u376	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. The rapporteurs, Additional Report of 27 April 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u377	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: To create § 104a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 297, para. 2 shall be added at the end with the exception of the votes referred to in Article 2. 279, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 297, para. 2 shall be added at the end with the exception of the votes referred to in Article 2. 279, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u378	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for a new paragraph to make changes to art. 297, para. 2 in the version of the Commission's Additional Report of 27 April. We vote. They voted 93 MPs: 91, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u379	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are making savings in parliamentary time because the arguments in the discussion, we understand that it does not matter and therefore we use to mark our position on the texts voted. And this one, as far as I was concerned, is related to the famous vote marking, which some of the voters will give that they do not support any of the parties, but it will count as a void vote. Without being extreme, you are profaning those who support this proposal..... the very inclusion of the possibility of such an expression of opinion. These people aren't insane, they're not disoriented. They have expressed a clear will in one of the two eligible forms: either to support a party and its candidates, or to say that they do not support any of the proposed parties. As a result, you finally tell them, "Yes, you have expressed your opinion, but it does not matter at all. I see that some of the parties will be very happy with this fact because they have provided you with support on other controversial texts, and now they need to get back the gesture in order to continue to hope that they will be present here in the next parliaments, perhaps again serving one or other conjunctural actions. But the Bulgarian democracy will gain nothing from this. The disbelief of citizens will continue to grow, and these combinations will start to create the impression that the purpose of the amendments to the Election Code and other legislative acts is not that Bulgarian citizens should live better in Bulgaria and have a greater influence on government and, if possible, not create difficulties for those who govern. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u380	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 144, which shall become paragraph by the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u381	Wait, we're in the extra report, right? [[Reply from the rapporteur Anna Alexandrova.]] We're going to transfer them from the main one to the extra one? Okay. Then we'll see what we do with the finals. We are now going back to the main part of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u382	Under § 144, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 144, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "one petition' shall be replaced by "one list'. 2. In para. 4 the words "five, six and seven" shall be replaced by "six" and "seven."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u383	Statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission proposal for § 144 by importer with a new numbering, but with it the changes in art. 416. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u384	Under § 145, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of Parliament that the paragraph be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 145, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u385	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr Karadayi's proposal and a group not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 7, against 64, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 145 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 77 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u386	Under § 146, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to dismiss the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 146, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u387	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Karadayi's proposal, unsupported. Vote 81 MPs: 4 against 63 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u388	Under § 146, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall support the following version of § 147, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter in which it is written "I do not support anyone." 2. In para. 3 the words "s 4' are replaced by "s 4' and "s 6'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u389	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u390	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, no matter what kind of choice we are talking about, because here in art. 421 is about elections for municipal councillors, noting the box that does not support any of the lists for municipal councillors, again leads to the insanity of calling voters, to undertake to exercise their right to vote and ultimately to crush their ballots, to thank them eventually for exercising their duty in the Election Code to express their will that they do not support anyone and the ballot in practice to throw themselves in the trash can. Please note that the turnout here corresponds directly to the so-called turnout. In the case of municipal lists, a reference is made. And the representation of the municipal lists, as there is still 7% preference when people go and if the turnout does not rise because they have expressed a valid vote, the mess becomes completely total. I can't even find the words to express my outrage about what you continue to accept and the chaos you create in the electoral process. Do not accept these texts, once again we turn to you, because all this will return as a boomerang to you, those who accept these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u391	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal for a new version of paragraph 147 by importer for changes in art. 421. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u392	Paragraph 148. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 148, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 422 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1: A new item is being created. 6: It's six. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter in which it is written "I do not support anyone; b) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7. 2. In para. 3 the words "s 5' are replaced by "s 5' and "s 6'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u393	Statements? None I put to the vote the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer, proposes a new version of § 148, which will have a completely new version of the report, but what remains as content is for a change in art. 422... we are voting on the Commission's proposals for a change in art. 422. Vote 85 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u394	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 423 of the judgment of the Court Another number in the ballots of parties and coalitions shall be determined by the Central Election Commission through lots held in the presence of party representatives and coalitions no later than 31 days before the election day. The draw of lots shall be made publicly and registered candidates and representatives of the mass media may also be present. The result of the lot shall be announced by the Central Election Commission by a decision according to the order of art. 57, para. 2. In case of identity, parties and coalitions that registered candidates for municipal councillors or mayors in the municipal electoral commission have the same ballot number for each type of election they have registered candidates for. (2) The numbers of the initiative committees shall follow the numbers in the ballots of the parties and coalitions according to the order of registration of the independent candidate from the municipal electoral commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u395	Statements? Mr. Mitev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u396	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, in relation to the votes held, I will make two editorial proposals on the text. First of all, in relation to the remaining possibility of creating local coalitions, I propose in para. 2 of art. 423, as edited by the Commission, after the words the number of the Coalitions is added: the local coalitions and the Coalitions, and after the words the registration of the Coalitions was added: the local coalitions and the Coalitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u397	Read what the whole paragraph should sound like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u398	The whole subparagraph should sound like this: The number of local coalitions and committee committees follows the number in the ballots of the parties and coalitions, according to the order of registration of the local coalition and the independent candidate in the municipal electoral commission. This is the edit I propose regarding the remaining possibility of creating local coalitions. I propose an al. 4 of art. 423 to be amended and read as follows: The parties and coalitions which have not registered candidate lists shall not participate in the lot and shall not be assigned a number and shall not be left blank in the ballot. Local coalitions and initiative committees which have not registered candidate lists on the territory of the municipality shall not be assigned a number and no blank order shall be left in the ballot. This is in connection with the previously voted text relating to the centralised withdrawal of the ballot numbers of parties and coalitions registered in the CEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u399	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u400	Thank you, Madam President. It's more of a procedure. I think the editorial proposal made just now, Mr. Mitev, does not fall within the meaning of an editorial proposal. It practically amends the whole proposal, so please do not accept it. However, we are at second reading, and we must also observe our Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u401	Yes, but when, on a proposal from the Commission, no texts have been supported and the House has voted in the opposite sense, there is no way in the next texts on the back of the report not to hold account of the decisions already adopted by the National Assembly. Since there will be local coalitions, we also need the texts that we are about to vote on to take into account this opportunity, which is why many in the field and precisely is Mr. Mitev's editorial proposal. Are there any other statements? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. First, I put to the vote Mr. Mitev's editorial proposal for editing para. 2 in art. We are voting for Mr. Mitev. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote Mr. Mitev's proposal to amend art. 423 para. 4 We are voting on Mr. Mitev's proposals for the changes in para. 4. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are voting for the full version of the changes in art. 423 para. 1, 2 and 4. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal for changes in art. 423 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u402	Paragraph 149. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 149 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u403	We are voting, fellow Members, on this proposal from the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u404	Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u405	Colleagues, aren't you going to withdraw this again? [[Reply from BSP LB. Laughter from GERB.]] Read, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u406	Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs is created § 149a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 429 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 2: After the vote was finalized, the chairman of the selection panel re-injured the Commission's seal, put three prints of the re-injured seal in the protocol with its primary injury. All members of the committee shall be signed under the re-injured prints. All other papers and materials on which the seal of the Commission is intended shall be stamped with the double-striped stamp. 2. The so-called para. 2 becomes para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u407	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: for 6, against 54, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u408	The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 433 is If, when completing the data on the findings of the election in the minutes under para. 2 an error is made, the error is corrected by crossing the error, and the actual data is recorded above it. As close as possible to the correction in the field of the Protocol shall be written on the sidelines of a correction and shall be signed by all members of the selection election commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u409	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph setting up a new para. 3 in art. 433. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal for a new para. 3 in art. 433 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u410	The Commission does not support the text of the importer under § 150. 1 point (b) and (c) 2. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 150, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 434 para. 1, t. 3 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be added to Parts I and II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u411	Statements, coworkers? There are no statements, but there is no mirror in the data that fit into the national and local elections protocol. The locals made them more complicated, with more data. Mr. Kirilov, is this how the Commission's proposal will remain? Please represent the importer, the report does not say who is the importer to protect his proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u412	Madam President, I will ask my fellow Members to support the text of the importer, as proposed, and not according to the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u413	What's the paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u414	This is § 150.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u415	In fact, they're out of the question. 5 and so on. 15. Point 5 is the number of registered candidate lists and the number of certificates under art. 40. Got it. Colleagues, lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and offers us a new version, but we are urged not to support this proposal in this House, back to supporting the text of the importer. We are voting on the Commission proposal and, in view of the outcome of this vote, we will return to the text of the importer. We vote. They voted 82 MPs: for 3, against 57, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 150 by importer for changes in art. 434, as by importer. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Radev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u416	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote a proposal for an extension by one week for the submission of written additions and amendments between the first and second reading of the Draft for Supplement to the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, adopted at first reading on 20 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u417	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, the deadline is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u418	sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 436, para. 1, the words "Bullets" shall be subtracted one by one, placed with the face-down and the number shall be replaced by "after entering into the minutes of all the data referred to in the previous Article." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 151 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u419	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 151 by importer. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u420	Paragraph 152. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a (Commission ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 437 para. 5, at the end of the sentence, after the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 152, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 437 para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. There is a sign in the newsletter with a blue-colored pen in the box. I do not support anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u421	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u422	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am speaking to support the text of the Legal Committee proposed in the report. [[GERB's line.]] I've got the constitution, I've written it, so I don't always have to wear it. [[Happy excitement and single applause by GERB.]] Here it is actually proposed to add another reason on which the vote put forward by the voter is real. This is the case where the relevant sign is placed in the box "I do not support anyone" in the newsletter. I've already had the opportunity to justify the opinion, which I'm guessing no one can disprove. If someone is able, let him stand on the stand and say that when a person makes a conscious choice, when that choice is political, when he is marked in the way prescribed by the Law, it expresses his free will at least within which the legislator has indicated. The Commission's proposal must therefore be supported. I have already made the agreement that I am, in principle, against the existence of such an order, in addition to voting for parties, to vote practically against all parties. I am interested in you to tell me where this innovative experience is borrowed from, because from pό established democratic systems I do not know one. I assume that somewhere in the world or perhaps in the emerging democracies there are similar provisions where someone thought to carry them. But I'm not going back to what you wrote down anymore. If anyone is worried about how to calculate the actual votes that they will raise, and this is practically the case, the number of votes, and hence the votes that are needed to cross the 4-percent barrier, to come and say it: "Give, colleagues, we are here in an unprincipled coalition, doing mutual services. There is an opportunity to bring this barrier down to two or three percent, but to follow the logic of the changes that are being made. No one goes out to say the four percent is an inappropriate barrier, but they say, "How are we going to account for these voices? Democracy is in danger. We've got 8 alternatives. We've got 10 alternatives. Can a reasonable question be answered 8 different answers? This is for those who say that carefree pluralism is the best thing that we can live with, perhaps falling into greater uncertainty and making more and more possible combinations. The more the combinations, the more the price of democracy goes up, but not the price of democracy as a burden of the vote of the Bulgarian or of any citizens, but as an increase in the number of political transactions, which often have a very high price, which is measured in other signs characteristic of the economy and not politics. With what you've recorded, I wouldn't be surprised if some witty citizen and political speculator decide to register a party after a month. Or are you perhaps afraid that this party will grow stronger, so let us announce? But then it will be a party, and it won't be in the box. I don't support anyone. It will be an equivalent party in the other squares and it will turn out to be gaining a lot of speed. The consequence of this measure is further undermining the foundations of the political system. When there is really a decline in democracy, when people have a lot of reason to be dissatisfied, instead of looking for alternative ways to express their will through these parties, through new parties, you make them simply express spontaneous discontent, which is then thrown into the trash can. This is a political fraud that does not help to increase the authority of politics or respect the vote of those who participated in the political process. So whoever has accepted these things, now support them. You will receive, as far as our humble support is concerned, so that we can be consistent in these actions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u423	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u424	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, since you did not know where this option was applied, although this is not my proposal, I can tell you that it was applied in Greece, in India, in the state of Nevada, in Ukraine, in Spain, in Colombia. There are two options: one is not supporting any of the above, and the other is the so-called white vote, when no one is supported. I personally would support your speech if it were in the direction that if 25% of the people have pointed out that I do not support anyone, then let's reduce the number of MPs by 25% - instead of being 240, to be 180. That means the voter has voted on no one. Then we take his word for it. But your speech was not in that direction and I would not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u425	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u426	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ananiev, thank you for the information about the countries you have listed or states. I don't think these examples are the most convincing for the purposes we set ourselves, but there really are some ways. What you said as a note to my speech is actually my idea, which I shared from this tribune during the debates. I don't want to accuse you of borrowing my ideas, because in politics they don't have strict authorship. Then I said that if you are so consistent in this regard, we should really consider changing the Constitution and the number of 240 MPs to be only hypothetically the number of MPs elected. But, as you said, if the non-voting party or the voting party against the parties win this percentage or any other, then we must separate 25% of the seats in parliament and they remain unoccupied. Then these people will see that they will either continue to reduce parliament to some critical minimum, such as the presence of MPs, or at some point it will start working healingly and once again people will find someone to support, parliament will start filling up according to the available chairs here in the Chamber. Let's think about this idea. I'm offering it to you. It is becoming more and more up-to-date in view of the direction in which you are going and where you are going to continue. But keep in mind, then, that part of the parties will disappear completely. The larger current parties will be minimized significantly, but the process will begin with the disappearance of a number of parties. That's the signal. Again, at the beginning this decision will most likely damage all parties or almost all, but at some point it may start working. Here's a radical idea: much more radical than moderates and, how do I say, purely arithmetical proposals of the referendum importers, whether to be 120 or any other number of MPs. I can also offer you other innovative ideas in view of the number of participants in the elections, but then it will be too much to combine the requirement for the number of participants with that of the non-voting parties to any party and there is a danger that the National Assembly will be emptied almost entirely and that two representatives of a parliamentary group remain to act on the principle of shareholder companies. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u427	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other lines, speeches? For your speech please welcome, the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u428	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is not for a reason that I have not taken the floor all day because of the desire to save time, to debate briefly and essentially, but no longer in another speech on the left can remain unanswered. First of all, we are listening to philosophical speech, and in fact BSP colleagues have made a proposal that, however, did not present and defend for a complete drop of the referendum on local elections. They have said that the ballots, which do not mark a particular person, should be counted for the whole list, as they now count as the first. That is, we are listening to a general philosophical speech here, but in fact people have proposed something quite concrete, as Georgi Kadiev quite specifically excluded, in the same way that the preference for local elections does not work from now on. Otherwise, they come out of the stands by text concerning this proposal, they say some general philosophical things, but they actually have a very specific proposal that I am calling you, colleagues, together and arguing to reject. It is highly doubtful that people who supposedly put in the preferential vote or declared themselves for it would suddenly want its complete annulment, because that is what happens in the end. That's the offer they made. The other question: the opportunity, fellow Members, to vote for anyone that you do not support anyone is not so bad. Let us see the number of Bulgarian citizens who do not support anyone. This will also signal to the political system what the situation is and what changes must be made. And I don't support anyone who can and shouldn't increase the electoral barrier because I don't support anyone that means I want more competition that means I want new parties that mean I want a new choice. Doesn't mean I want a higher threshold, doesn't mean I want two parties in parliament and I want to choose one of them. If people want two parties, they'll vote for them and they won't use the box. I don't support anyone. So let's not speculate. Let's stop this game on the left with the words and tell each other the truth. By the way, after the tenth speech on the left, how much I don't support anyone, I think they have reason and I understand why this fear is. Fear is because parties that have them for so many years and which are constantly diminishing as influences and who define themselves as big, but have not won any district city in the last local elections, I would advise, honourable Members, to be careful in assessing who would disappear and who would not disappear. It's God's work! God's work, because people are smart enough to know what they're doing, so don't tell anyone who's going to disappear and who's not going to disappear. Finally, colleagues, in order not to waste any more time and to stop the philosophical tone that has been set to us on the left, there is a very specific proposal from the BSP for a complete depreciation at the local elections. I urge you to reject it because we are others and because we are reasonable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u429	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u430	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Dimitrov, you must choose in your argument whether we support this text because you say it is in the interest of the big parties, or we support it, because in time we will become, in the near future, a very small party. We have to choose one of the two as an argumentation for our position, because by the rules of formal logic, this is no longer so philosophical, there is no way the two things can be true at the same time. I would like to make another contribution to your concept of preferences and to tell you that in Bulgaria the preferential system was invented much earlier in the first half of the 20th century, I do not remember the elections about which National Assembly somewhere around World War I, only that the first invention of the referendum was in the form of an anti-preference. The voters had the right to cross out one name on the proposed candidate list. This is done shortly after the introduction of the proportional system, which is considered to be more modern and giving fairer representation. If you had thought of such an option, whether the Bulgarian policy would not have been better freed than some people, rather than now to collect any funds - political, financial and others, some would become very preferential because then even some leader of the list, if he had collected the required number of negative votes, would be dropped before others and the leaves would be rearranged. So there are different practices and don't bother us here that the BSP was a pole in the wheel of preferential voting, which very often a number of you call a majority vote, extremely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u431	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u432	Mr. Chairman, I remember when there were not yet respected colleagues from GERB from this tribune, but you, Mr. Stoilov, and your colleagues, introduced the so-called Majority vote. At the time, I was one of the few people we warned you about. Yes, in 31 districts there were majority elections in Bulgaria. Then we warned you that this was a bad experiment, and what it turned out to be that you are finally about the Guinness Book because you introduced the majority vote and did not choose any MP, which is unique in the new Bulgarian history. In this situation, the mentoring tone of how beautiful legislation you have adopted, and in principle, how bad is the current, honourable Members, I do not accept it, because it is simply unfair and not reasonable. The preferential vote is actually a huge opportunity because people choose between tens, hundreds of candidates. The problem with BSP is that it's in a severe split. You don't really want the reference. You want her out, but you're ashamed of people to admit it, and that puts you in severe disparity because there's a text here for Mr. Mihail Mikov who wants to drop the referendum on local elections. Instead of defending yourself and saying: "We from BSP as people who do not believe in democracy in general or rarely believe, sometimes only, we want there to be no preferential vote because we do not like that either. We want the party's leadership to arrange the lists of all kinds of elections. That's what you have to say, but since you don't want to say it like that, there's common philosophical reasoning, wordplay and nothing concrete that somehow doesn't seem manly enough to me, honourable colleagues. Be more honest with these things! Say it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u433	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. None of the colleagues want a personal explanation from GERB. I am tempted to abuse rightly when the time Mr. Dimitrov talked about, GERB had it as a party, as he won almost all majority districts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u434	I'm talking about 2005!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u435	Are there any other statements? Mr. Mikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm using a statement to make a kind of personal explanation. Mr. Dimitrov, in which text did I suggest this? Why are you fooling people so much? [[Noise and lines.]] Here it is, but read it exactly what it says. Read it! Don't be fooled! There's a lot of people in the room. Come on, talking to each other at your club is different. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u437	Was that a personal explanation, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u438	A personal explanation, a line, a doppelganger, whatever you want, that's how you write it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u439	Is there a line to Mr. Mikov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. We are voting on a proposal from MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 77 MPs: for 7, against 49, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer which is not supported by the Commission and which shall propose its version for § 152 by importer, with its respective content and numbering on the report. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 152 by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 152 by importer in the version of the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u440	Paragraph 153. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 153 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u441	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the only sensible proposal is precisely that paragraph, which the Commission is, of course, proposing to reject. Honourable Members of Parliament, this is about the engine vote and the engine census. I don't understand you, too, from the reformers. Since you have also supported our demands, which have already been laid down in this Code, why are you now silent in this House and not expressing any opinion, but, you see, on the other proposals you are too active?! The machine census will reduce the subjectivism of the vote census as much as possible. That's what we're after, isn't it? To facilitate, on the one hand, the selection committees and, on the other, to reduce subjectivism in the census, of course, and in the reporting of votes. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to support this text. He's one of the best, as far as anything good can ever have in this Election Code, so proposed. I urge you to support it if you want to have a slightly more honest election than anything else you have proposed here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u443	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 152 by importer. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u444	Paragraph 153.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u445	Sorry, § 153. The report says 152, but it's 153. Vote 73 MPs: 67 against 5, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u446	The Commission proposes to create new § 132 and § 133, or with the corresponding numbering: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 438 para. 1 is created t. 7 : "7." a stack of ballots according to the model established: (a) with a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" and a blue color pen in the box "I do not support anyone; (b) which contain two seals of the relevant sectary electoral commission. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 439, para. 4 and 5 is finally
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u447	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs, two in number, with their respective content and numbering on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs with their respective content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u448	Paragraph 154. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 154, which shall become paragraph by the relevant number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 440, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is finally added for all candidate lists. 2. A t is created. 3a: 3a. the number of actual votes under art. 438 para. 1, t. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u449	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 154, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u450	Paragraph 155. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 441 is created a new para. 8 with the following text: The President of the Selection Election Commission or the person expressly authorised by him shall scan and upload the signed Protocol in the presence of all members of the Selection Election Commission who have signed it to a specific location on the site of the Central Election Commission. The scan and upload should be done by the chairman of the selection panel or by the person expressly authorised by him before the materials and election papers are brought to the municipal electoral commission by the persons responsible. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 155 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u451	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Georgi Anastasov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 7, against 52, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 155, which is not supported by the Commission and which proposes to reject it. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 155 unanimously has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u452	A proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs is created § 155a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 1 the words of the President or Vice-President, Secretary and Member of the Selection Election Commission, proposed in the composition and by various parties and coalitions, shall be replaced by three members of the Selection Election Commission, proposed in the composition and by various parties and coalitions, the President and/or Vice-President, the Secretary and/or a Commissioner. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u453	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u454	Under § 156, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs - § 156 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 156 - to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 156 be rejected. Under § 157, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 157 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u455	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 156 and 157. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The Commission's proposals have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u456	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 158 and proposes that the paragraph be rejected. Under § 159, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 159 - is dismissed. And this proposal is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the Commission's text and proposes that § 159 be rejected. Under § 160, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. A proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission also supports. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 160 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u457	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 158, 159 and 160 by importer. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 158, 159 and 160 are rejected on a proposal from the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u458	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I ask for a 30-minute break, but no less than 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u459	Twenty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u460	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u461	Under § 161, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is supported by the committee. A proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 161 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u462	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 161 by importer, as the Commission does not support the importer's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u463	This proposal has been reached by respecting Mr. Karadayi's proposals and a group and Mr. Mikov's and a group. The percentage of support is more than the unsupported texts, but this does not prevent colleagues from saying that none is supported by them. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u464	Under § 162, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 162 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u465	We are voting on the Commission's proposal, fellow Members. They voted 73 MPs: for 70, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u466	An offer was made by Dimitar Delchev, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u467	We are already at the Additional Report on the latter, from April 27th.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u468	... to create § 134a, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 134a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 452, para. 3 shall be added at the end with the exception of those under art. 438 para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u469	So what does the Commission do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u470	Supports it and proposes to create the reported paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u471	You read the Commission's proposal? Okay. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u472	Where's the extra report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u473	Colleagues, you've been given further reports. The Quaestors came by first thing this morning. Here, Mr. Karadaye found his, and you, Mr. Kazak, didn't pack your papers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u474	That's it? [[Applauds the President and shows a report.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u475	Yeah. There are no speeches, which is why the debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for changes to art. 452, para. 3. We are voting on the Commission's proposal on the Additional Report of 27 April. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u476	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 163, which shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u477	That's back in the main report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u478	Yeah, in the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u479	Paragraph 163 for changes in art. 453, para. 3? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for this paragraph. Vote 97 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Under § 164, there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: "Paragraph 10 is amended as follows: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out § 164. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by Mikhail Mihov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 164, to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: A new § 191 shall be created with the following content: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 454, para. 2 words "7 per cent" are deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I, II and IV. The Commission shall support the version of Option III importer and propose the following version of § 164, which shall be renumbered accordingly: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 454, para. 2 the words the municipal electoral quota shall be replaced by the votes submitted for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u480	Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Mr. Kazak. We missed you before the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u481	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I hope we've rested and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u482	Well, some more, Mr. Kazak, some less.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u483	Exactly, no matter how little we rest, we still have the strength to concentrate on the text. At the moment we are discussing the issue with the threshold of preferences for municipal lists to draw attention to those who cannot navigate. This is what we're talking about. You know very well, you remember very well that in the last local elections there were drastic differences between the will of the voters and what was ultimately received as a result. Massally re-arranged lists for the sake of Lyubemetz 15, 16s and so on, massively rearranged lists because of a candidate who was last in place has more relatives than others and with 20s, 30s, 40 preferences suddenly the latter was the first. From this phenomenon, along with, of course, the problems that have arisen at all because of these preferences and their reporting, because of which a huge number of ballots have proved invalid, we have proposed the threshold of preferences, especially for local elections, to be increased to a value that has some common sense. We propose that the threshold of preferences should be aligned with the so-called "municipality electoral quota." I mean, if any candidate who...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u484	Or a smartass.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u485	Yeah, that's right. ... wishes to be chosen preferentially, i.e. thinks that he deserves more than those before he is supported, let him be so good as to receive at least as many preferences as a council seat in the respective municipality. That is, to get at least as many preferences as the municipal electoral quota. Because otherwise it turns out that he clearly and simply took advantage of his place in a party list and deceived, deceived the trust of the voters who voted for the other candidates, or did not use a preference, trusting the list as proposed by the relevant political power. This is the only fair solution that should be adopted in cases where a candidate is tricked out and instead of standing alone as an independent candidate for municipal councillor, he tries to find a place in the future municipal council by participating in the list of political power. In order to close, how to say, this rear entrance, through which many municipal councillors managed to rearrange the lists in the last local elections and find a place in the municipal council, must this threshold really rise to this reasonable level. And let them be so good from now on, those who want to play with preferences, to collect as many preferences as it costs for this council place they want to get. I hope that you will support this proposal and not what the Commission has supported. As this proposal is also, although it is indeed better than the text currently in force, it continues to be a low enough threshold to be proposed. Because 7% of the votes cast for the candidate list means that, for example, if 500 votes are cast or 1000 votes with 70 preferences, someone will be able to rearrange the list. That is not the purpose, I am convinced, not the sense of justice that should unite us in settling this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u486	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? First line, Mr. Ananiev, then Mr. Delchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u487	Dear Mr. Kazak, I can't understand you. You speak of the people on the lists as if they were not defined by the party that nominated them, but are some foreign people who have snuck in there and in some way are trying to move forward. I understand the comment that is about the so-called lucky people who hit the number, but we have offered a very working option, even two. The first option is not to have a number in front of the party itself. Then we have only the numbers of preferences and there is no way you can have 13 Why didn't you support this proposal? I'm very interested to hear your exact answer to this thing. The other thing. The SDS colleagues came up with a concrete proposal. The numbers of the ballots I am referring to the parties with one number, the others are uploaded by number one hundred. You can't get it back on with one unit, you put it in front, you can't get that happy effect. Let's solve this problem. Eliminate the so-called lucky ones and your problem is solved. But here's the problem with the preface. That's your problem with you, you don't want to give your constituents a choice to choose who to actually enter the parliament, the local authorities, the list that you approved. Why do you approve of people on the list that you don't want to enter? You've approved them to join the same list, but if the voter chooses them, you don't like them anymore because they didn't comply with the party decision. I don't think what you said supports the election of voters, they want to make their majority vote. They may not like the first one, they may not like the second one, they may not like the third one, but they may like the eighth one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let's give them this right to vote for him and if he collects more than your constituents, or ours, they choose this choice, he gets on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u488	The second line is Mr. Delchev, the third line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u489	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kazak, all I have heard in your speech is a constant monotonic roar that people can rearrange the lists that the parties have created. In fact, this is the big problem of the DPS, and if there were, as they say: a simple one, to cancel the preferences and to leave the opportunity to line up your lists and to determine who is first, second, third place, you would most likely suggest this. But now you are proposing the absolute depreciation of preferences, because the rise in the ten-or-tenth threshold is practically so when they put in the municipal electoral quota, the rise in the threshold makes the preferences meaningless, except for people who can find sufficient resources and sufficient party support to achieve the municipal electoral quota. I mean, it's clear that we're walking towards an overcrowding of the leaves that doesn't allow it to be rearranged inside. That's your goal, I understand it. After all, we all remember that at the beginning of this Parliament, two or several members of the DPS, who had moved with preferences, were excluded from the parliamentary group. [[DPS lines.]] You're back there. [[Noise and lines.]] That's right. They're independent now. Look, the will of the people is clear and it is to have a majority element in the elections. It's the majority element in the election. I call on my fellow Members, with all my strength, to stand up for this, the preference of the local elections, as well as the national elections, as well as of the President, not to be depreciated in this way that you are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u490	Third line. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u491	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kazak, I didn't mean to offend you and offend you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u492	Don't, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u493	That's why I'm stating that I don't want to offend him and offend him. I have the impression that with your suggestions there is some sort of split personality. In its first proposal, Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs propose that § 164 be abolished, that is to say that the current situation of which you are unhappy remains. The second proposal to delete the possibility of a preferential vote at all. So you must first clarify what you want, because the proposal, which makes the Commission option three, is, in my opinion, the fair proposal. It is a compromise option and it is a good option, for the simple reason here I already agree with part of your statement that really preferences must guarantee to a certain and large extent representativeness, and this representation is guaranteed precisely by the proposal in option three of the Commission to be of the whole vote on this whole list because this list, anyway, comes out as a team player and an election participant. Of course, no one can accept that in a municipal quota in a small municipality, which may be within 350 votes, 7% of these 350 votes are about 23-24 votes. Of course, 24 votes cannot be representative and cannot rearrange the list. I agree with you here. However, the proposal made by the Commission is extremely sensible and, in my opinion, very reasonable, and I cannot understand it, therefore, that you want to remain the current law with which you do not agree, because you have made such a proposal, or you want us to erase at all the possibility of citizens being stimulated by preferences to go to choose their candidate, who they believe will protect them, especially at local elections at local level, to increase voter turnout. I don't understand that, and I'm really going to ask you to explain it in some way. After all, which of the two proposals you made are you based on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u494	A hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u495	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I begin with Mr. Bayraktarov. I also do not want to offend him, but he is still a first term MP, it is normal to have difficulties in navigating the preparation of the reports for second reading. Of course we have offered to reject option one of paragraph 164 because option two is our option, which is also covered by the proposal we have made. So there is no contradiction in our thesis. It is clear and clear: we want to eliminate the possibility that currently exists with 7 percent of the municipal electoral quota to rearrange the list for municipal councillors. This is what we have proposed and in all the proposals this is evident. There is no contradiction if you take a closer look and listen to my explanations. With regard to the two representatives of the Bulgarians of the citizens (Bulgaria) one of the parties in the coalition (Reformator bloc). Dear colleagues, it is natural, it is no secret to anyone that you are the greatest storonists of preferences, because only through your preferences you measure the power and influence within the coalition. This is your main tool. You, through preferences, strive to overdo yourself internally. But you screwed up your leader, especially you from the Bulgarians of the citizens. You screwed up your leader just because of the preferences. Did you see what happened? And because of that it is natural that you are the greatest advocates of preferences, but we, representatives of independent political parties, who are not coalitions that do not do internal coalition numbers, want justice. We want when we present to the voters our lists and when we expect from our voters who support our political party and the leaves that we have presented when we are voted, we do not want someone with fraud, someone using other means of convincing them to use such loopholes with this low threshold, with 20, 30 preferences to rearrange the entire list and thus replace the vote of the majority of our voters. Let it be so good if you want to enter to become a municipal councillor, be so good to collect at least as many preferences as this councilman's place costs. Otherwise, be so good as to appear as independent rather than use the party list to enter the back entrance of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u496	Until now, a wish to speak has made MPs Mr. Ananiev, Radan Kanev and Bajraktarov. [[The National Representative Dimitar Delchev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] So how did you personally explain, you made a line? After the cue in the back, it is normal for the public representative who makes the duplicate to address the colleagues who replicated it. He can't help but mention you. The word is Mr. Ananiev to speak. [[Heckling]] I've announced the announcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u497	Madam President, honourable Members! We don't have to be afraid of competition. Competition is a positive thing. If we make the very preference not working, only by compulsory voting will we wave it that we have a preference. And in fact, like the mandatory vote, which there is no vote, we will talk that there is a preference when its threshold is too high. I'm setting an example with Sophia. By the way, this proposal hits the big cities where most people vote. In small towns and the example given, yes, there are places where with 20 votes you can move and become a counselor, but they are smaller towns, there are fewer people with fewer voices going on this thing. In Sofia, I give you an example, in the last local elections, in order to move the list of the Reformist voice had to gather about 440 votes. In the current situation, it will become 4,200 votes. In a word, nine times we're gonna raise the offer to make it work. Let's just say there's such a preference. Why don't we let the candidates themselves, with their majority, be able to go competitively, compete, convince the voters to vote for it? Why are we afraid of this thing? Why? We don't need to be afraid. The voter can decide who to support and who not to. Once you've approved on the party list someone, you should have a hundred percent confidence in all these people. Why are you afraid of your 21st? Why put him on the list at all if you're afraid he'll come in and become a city councilman or, in this case, as he is here with colleagues in the back, MPs? Why? I don't understand. I think we need to think about how to stimulate more people to go out and vote. I know it's nice for you not to have high election activity. But it comes when people know that with their voice they can change something. And that only happens with a working preference. When there is one, more people will come out because they will know that when they vote, they can somehow influence, their voice can be heard, taken into account, see the result of this vote and thus have a high turnout and what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u498	For the first line Mr. Metin, then Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Ramadan Atalay, third.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u499	Madam President! Dear colleague, we are not afraid of competition! The movement for rights and freedoms is not a party that has developed and has grown and has been built in an uncompetitive environment. But you still need to know, and I guess it's only a matter of time before you learn that there's also unfair competition. If you are interested in what this means, for example, to tell you about Pleven District, Pleven Municipality. The leaves of the Reformation Block are quite rearranged and disloyal. At the moment in your municipal list in Pleven half the municipal leaves do not speak to each other. And you don't work very comfortably. So you have a way to grow, to develop. When you become a 25-26-year-old party who has survived 30 local elections and I don't know how many parliamentary choices you can talk about. And then, the other thesis, why do you suggest both to the voters and to the National Assembly that the preferential vote is the majority vote. There is a deep understanding of the fundamental difference between the two types of vote. The preferential vote in this case is: the whole team is working for the team, only one or two working for themselves and finally the team as a whole is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u500	Second line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u501	Madam President! Mr. Ananiev, perhaps during elections we should talk about competition, maybe about competition, but this is more of a commercial concept, but it also requires that the market not be deformed. Because with these low thresholds of preferences that you offer, you have a deformed political market. Because these are precisely the channels where a large part of the corporate vote is taking place, perhaps not in the largest cities to this extent, but already quite massively. Don't you know that? And even sometimes factors are involved that are outside the parties themselves and their traditional voters to construct certain majorities. I would even say: why you are so consistently defending everything in Bulgaria to be 10% of the tax on individuals, 10% corporate tax. Make 10% preferences. We are a flat system in which everything will be 10%. Then indeed your liberal urges, in my opinion, will be well protected enough. And 10% is not an insurmountable threshold, but it is indeed, even if we do not go to what the MPs from the DPS propose to win a mandate and then to rearrange the list, but 10%, in my opinion, is a fairly reasonable balance between the aspirations and the real opportunity for people to gather preferences from what the committee proposes, from the votes submitted for the candidate list. Any other criterion is absolutely non-executive because the leaves collect the votes and each one of them must show what its weight is in relation to this list. My last argument is that if you have to seek democracy in parties, it does not come on election day or on several campaign days. Democratic parties, if they so desire, must make a wide internal choice with all their members, and if they consider this to be the result of their list, it must be protected. Because one of the reasons for the crisis of democracy in Bulgaria is that parties lose their influence precisely because of the intervention of other factors in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u502	Third line, Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u503	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, I recognized you, I saw that you were a Member of Parliament, because before that the chairwoman had given the floor to one of the Quaestors here when she accused me of taking the floor and talking about other things. Here in a few words I would like to say to you, colleague. Do you know anything about party construction? Have you ever dealt with an organization or only dealt with your self-organization and how, in what way to replace one of your fellow parties, to go ahead and become five deputies in this Chamber to become seven people ministers. [[Laughter]] You at all, when you talk about election activity, are you in this room? Did you know we already have a mandatory vote? How will you increase the activity when the vote is now mandatory? Dear colleagues, for us, the preference when there are party structures built with relevant ideologies is only in the internal party structure and the solution is in the internal choice. Make your own internal elections, make your own preferences, because from then on each reference is identified by one of our MPs with the many money, the other with the respect of the people of a particular municipality. There's nothing else to identify when it's 5%, 7%. The majority choice, honourable Members, is when you go out majority and earn your mandate of 17,000 votes, plus above and become a MP as independent. Otherwise you are blaming Boyko Borisov, blaming Kuneva. Be calm about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We may have internal reorganizations, but I have never been hated, and I have just said to my colleagues, both to Hafuzov and to the whole line that their seats are with us and sooner or later they will come here because they will no longer be recognized from Turkey. Thank you. [[Laughter from the block of non-member MPs. Claps by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u504	A hole, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u505	To Mr Metin, you said you were not afraid of competition. Yes, you're not afraid because you won't allow it. However, it was seen that the referendum punished your former leader, Mr. Mestan, because the people you turned off and put them in the back, they excluded him in fact. So for me, the preference works in some good way. [[Laughter]] To Mr. Stoilov, we did not offer what is currently working, but your dear friend, Comrade Manolova. Her bill suggested this preference. So if you have comments I saw her in the cafeteria, turn to her, you might ask her why she offered such a preference for the local elections. You also talked about the 10 percent, and this is another comrade, who in Europe you posted him, he suggested it. So turn to your comrades and do not go to the right of these proposals. I didn't understand half of Mr. Atalay's comments, but I can only tell him that people choose the preference and they choose whether they like someone or not. As one choice will have with you, but this is another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u506	Personal explanation, please. [[The People's Representative Gunay Hewesmen is coming out of the stands. Replices.]] Wait a minute, guys! There is only a personal explanation when speaking, and Mr. Atalay has little abuse of the right to a particular MP [[DRF lines]] Some have recognized each other. [[Reply of National Representative Gunay Hewesmen.]] You will take a statement if you want, because it is not in speech, but in a reply to the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u507	I'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u508	Yes, make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u509	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to say a few words triggered by Mr. Atalay's words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u510	Don't say it then he'll get a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u511	Let him take it. He says..there, in the back with the money, the offer, I suggest that the preferential vote should not have a threshold because the preference, in other words, is a preferred vote. Who would the citizens prefer? The one who works hard, not the one who sits like a puppy, the foreplay to make nice eyes at him. [[Loud noise, laughter and applause from the block of non-members]] Dear colleagues of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I have never denied that I am a depessar. Well, I've never denied that. But you threw us out the most disgraceful, and I'm not ashamed of you kicking me out. I am not ashamed that I am a representative of the Bulgarian Parliament. I have promised our constituents to work as hard as I can for them, and I will do it with all my heart.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u512	And it's in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u513	It's that today we've been sitting around on purpose watching a circus where some will try to make martyrs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u515	Either way, the people have chosen this Bulgarian parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u517	...who will vote on the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u519	Most of them have a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u521	The question is now how will people react to the elections themselves, we are about to see, fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the block of non-member MPs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u522	- What's the line? [[The National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov wants the floor.]] Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u523	Dear colleagues, dear Mr Hughesmen! I take a line not from you, but because my colleague Mihov will propose an end to the debate. [[Journal of GERB and shouts: "Eee! "]] To this end, which I believe is to limit the right of every Member of the National Assembly to speak their mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u524	Are you going to replicate now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u525	My fellow Members, I would like to support my colleague Hughesmen in the fact that the right path is not an increase in the threshold of preferences, but the opposite. As one of the people who entered parliament with preferences, I see the pros of this thing in two directions. Firstly, encouraging people to vote on people who would not vote for a party but would vote for a person. Secondly, stimulating the participants themselves in the lists that are in the back places to participate. Each of you who has participated in elections knows after the first, second place or where the line reaches, no one deals with elections. This is how the 20th, 21st, 25th participate in the election, and I see absolutely no logic in removing preferences or aggravating them or making them meaningless. I will support any proposal, including the proposal of my colleagues from the Reformation Block, leading to a reduction in the threshold of preferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u526	Second line? I won't. Mr Hughesman, would you like to use the back? No. [[Reply of MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Please come in for a procedure. You obviously have some sort of Gabrovo arrangement with Mr. Kazak, he passes and you then do the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u527	I don't think we're gonna let him through anymore. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Just to remind you that, under the Rules of Procedure, when a procedure is requested, you are obliged to give it immediately. The speeches are after that. Since a large number of colleagues have obviously slept and are very active and we still do not have to listen to what we have been listening to all day, and they only now want to speak their minds, so I propose an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u528	Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u529	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse procedural proposal. It is precisely to dispel your doubts that in Gabrovo the colleague is waiting for me to speak first and then make a proposal, let us also give other colleagues the opportunity to speak, to hear more arguments, because the problem is serious enough and concerns all of us and GERB the most, because you have also suffered this low threshold of preferences too. It makes sense of this debate, of course, if it doesn't fall into similar housing, as it sometimes does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u530	Colleagues, there is a procedural proposal, we have heard the opposite opinion. I shall put to the vote the proposal to put an end to the debate on the texts reported. We vote. They voted 123 MPs: for 89, against 34, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Debates closed, vote pending. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev "instead of the "7 per cent" offers "5 per cent." The Commission does not support this proposal. We vote. Vote 131 MPs: 17 against 90 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. Two groups of Members of the National Assembly and a group of Members of the National Assembly, and Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, have proposed § 164 by importer to drop out. The Commission does not support this proposal. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u531	Option 1 and option 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u532	I am following the report and I am reporting what is the specific proposal, namely for the removal of § 164. The other is an amendment, Mr. Kazak. Vote 128 MPs: 23, against 88, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs who offer in art. 454, para. 2 the words "7 per cent" shall be deleted, i.e. the reference shall be dropped. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 27, against 80, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal. It does not support the text of the importer for options 1, 2 and 4, supports in principle option 3 and proposes the following version for changes in art. 454, para. 2, by replacing the words the municipal electoral quota with the votes submitted for the candidate list. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 126 MPs: 113, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u533	There was a proposal made by Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u534	There is no such proposal by text, it was generally for first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u535	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the Commission's main proposal because I think it is unacceptable to continue systematically when voting on these amendments in the Election Code to deprive the rights and opportunities of Bulgarian citizens, so-called Bulgarian voters, from our point of view. The reference gives the citizens an additional opportunity to rearrange the leaves something that we are taking away. And this is the overall philosophy of voting on this Bill. The direction should be exactly the opposite.. to reduce or even to remove all types of restrictions to the preference. And I immediately give concrete examples to countries in which neither local or parliamentary elections were protected by the leader, was the threshold of the reference. Poland, Croatia, the three Baltic republics, most of them more successful than our new democracies in Central and Eastern Europe brought about a clean referendum without any restrictions. Why did they do it? Because in this way they are quite rightly trying to overcome the distrust between citizens and party elites and apparatus. Because trust in the traditional party structure is exhausted in both Western and Eastern Europe. And it is not the mechanisms of internal party democracy in parties with ever-decreasing towards the 1970s, but the mechanisms of direct democracy included in the multi-party electoral process that are the only solution to this problem of mistrust. Once again, in the last few days, this Parliament has voted to increase the gap of distrust between citizens and their elected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u536	Please, Mrs. Atanasova, we'll continue with the report. Just to see if there will be a withdrawal of an unsupported proposal, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u537	Thank you, Madam President. Our proposal to create a new § 164a I think is very good and motivated. I'm not going to argue again why this is so we did it. Since the previous texts have been rejected by the House, in this regard, its further vote is rendered meaningless because the texts in the Election Code are interrelated. That's why I'm withdrawing the offer from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u538	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Paragraph 165 - Mr. Haytov did the same, or other colleagues who are here, as these are texts, already several times made and withdrawn. [[Reply.]] The proposal is from Mr. Haytov and a group of MPs. They're gone. We'll read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u539	Paragraph 165. Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: The following text is added in the Annex to Implementing sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: (a) Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The time limits under the Administrative Procedure Code and the Civil Procedure Code shall not apply but shall be determined by the Court in compliance with the time limits for proceedings under this Law. b) Alinea 7 is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall rule on the legality of the decision of the municipal electoral commission within 14 days of the initiation of the proceedings, considering only the circumstances set out in the appeal lodged within the period laid down in para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (c) Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The decisions and orders of the court of proceedings may be challenged before the Supreme Administrative Court within 7 days of the notification to the parties. (d) In para. 10 the following amendments and additions are made: The word "S' is replaced by a comma and after the words "Species' in the calculation, "Incorrectly defined municipal electoral quota' or preferences (preferences) is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 165 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u540	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: for 7, against 57, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 165 by importer. Vote 107 MPs: 93 against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u541	Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 165a. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 166, which shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 167, which shall be renumbered. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 168, which shall be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u542	We are voting fully in favour of the Commission's proposals for paragraphs 166, 167 and 168 by importer. We vote on these three texts. 100 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u543	Paragraph 169. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 169 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u544	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 169 by importer. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u545	Paragraph 170. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: seventy to one hundred and twenty-seven to the other. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 170, which shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u546	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 114 MPs: 18, against 75, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 170 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u547	Paragraph 171 is for the creation of art. 477a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 171, which shall be renumbered accordingly. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for 172, which shall be renumbered. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 173, which shall be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u548	I put to the vote paragraphs 171, 172 and 173, supported entirely by the Committee on Importation. Voted 103 MPs: 93, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u549	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 174 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u550	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 101 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u551	Paragraph 175 - Proposal by Mihail Mikov for dropping the paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 175 be rejected. Paragraph 176 of the Commission proposes that the paragraph be rejected. Paragraph 177 is not supported by the Commission and proposes to be rejected. Paragraph 178? a proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov for dropping the paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 178 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u552	Anblok, I am voting on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs by importer with numbers 175, 176, 177 and 178. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 3, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u553	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time of today's plenary session until the discussions and votes on the texts of the main report are completed. I will specify this vision and understanding: we have several votes that have been postponed so far, we have an additional report which has also not been discussed so far. That is, if they remain for tomorrow's plenary debate on the Election Code, these four or five issues will be controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u554	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal by Mr. Kirilov, which is to extend the plenary session. Vote 114 MPs: 97 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u555	Paragraph 179 "A proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 492 the following amendment and addition is made: the word "Secretary" shall be added after the words "Secretary." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 179 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 180 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u556	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Georgi Anastasov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 4 against 68 abstentions 16. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 179 and 180 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 88, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u557	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 144: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 495 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: Member of the Regional, Municipal or Sectionary Election Commission, which violated a provision of the Code, other than the cases under art. 470-494, is punished with a fine of 20 to 200 leva. (3) When the infringement under para. 2 is repeated, the fine is from 200 to 500 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u558	Speaking, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, I make an editorial proposal: in para. 2 where a member of a regional, municipal or sectary electoral commission shall be replaced by a member from 20 to 200 with a member from 50 to 200.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u560	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Philip Popov in art. 495 para. 2 numbers 20 to be replaced by 50. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 4, against 56, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective content and numbering on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 3, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u561	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 181, which shall be renumbered: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 496 para. 2, p. 1 after the number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u562	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission and edited by the same content as the report and the paragraph shall be 181 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 5. Paragraph 181 in the version of the Commission on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u563	Proposal by Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov for the creation § 181a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u564	We withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u565	It was withdrawn from Mr. Kirilov. You don't have to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u566	Proposal by Mitev, Simeonov, Kirilov for annulment of art. 498. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u567	Statements? Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov for annulment of art. 498. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 84 MPs: 13 against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Paragraph 182, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u568	Dear Mr President, § 182 is from the second additional report. I'd like my colleagues to keep that in mind. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 9 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 18 is finally added as well as the work of the employees in the administration. 2. In § 3, para. 1 at the end is added and the elucitive Campaign is added. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 1 of the Additional Provisions: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made to the letter: a Bulgarian citizen who has an address registration at a permanent address or at a current address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made in point.4 of the letter.The following amendments and additions are made: a Bulgarian citizen who has a permanent or current registered address on the territory of the municipality or town hall concerned. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5, the following amendments and supplements are made in letter. The Bulgarian citizen who has an address registration at a permanent or current address on the territory of the municipality or town hall concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: The following additions shall be made in § 182: A new item is introduced in § 1. 20: It's 20. Unique identification number "WIN" represents a single number issued containing 10 (ten) digits which the relevant authorities under art. 25a, para. 3 and para. 4 of the Election Code shall issue to the voter on his first application for entry on the electoral lists and shall be intended only for participation in elections and referendums. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Delchev, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 182, which shall become § 146 or be renumbered: The following amendments and additions shall be made in the Additional Provisions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 9 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 12 after the word "levels" shall be added except for those under art. 279, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (c) c. 13 after the word "voices" shall be added "with the exception of those under art. 279, para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (d) c. 14 after the word "voices" shall be added after the exception of those referred to in art. 438 para. 1, t. the following point is inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (e) c. 18 is finally added as well as the work of the employees in the administration. 2. In § 3, para. 1 at the end is added and the elucitive Campaign is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u569	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u570	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is where we're talking about marking the already created art. 438 and his t. 7, namely, this box. This famous box where people say they don't like any of the candidates. And here you can see the futility of the text you have already voted on, because it will virtually have no role in taking into account the election result. That's why we're talking about these proposals. Again, I ask you not to force people to vote and then throw the ballot in the trash can. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u571	- What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, first of all, I ask that we supply the Members of the National Assembly with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u573	You gave one away, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u574	In order to get acquainted with colleagues, as several times colleagues here have mentioned that some of the texts have not been clearly read or are not clear to them. Maybe that's why it was their way of voting on the previous texts, but specifically under § 182. Ladies and gentlemen, in § 182, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have made our respective proposals in relation to some definitions of different concepts, even though these concepts are in the dictionary, in the Bulgarian dictionary. The legislature has decided that it should redefine them in the Election Code, in § 1 in its own way, however, in our view these previous definitions are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in particular with art. Art. 42, art. Art. 10, with art. Art. 57 and with art. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. From this point of view, in order to be able to still be in the philosophy of the texts which are in the Election Code, but edited in a way and a way that can be such that they do not violate the Bulgarian Constitution, we have proposed the respective editorials, namely definitions of the concepts................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Point 3 (s) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 4 (a) and 4 (b) We have defined and tried to make such a revision of the texts that it falls within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Once again, let us make an example to the Bulgarian citizens that those who are their elected and are in the National Assembly, and make the laws of the country that we expect the citizens to observe, we will at least respect the supreme law of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u575	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements because there is a procedure before that. Please come in for a procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, this is your last chance to correct an injustice. This text really enables the implementation of what you adopted at the beginning of the Election Code, namely that every Bulgarian citizen should be able to fulfil his civic duty to vote in local elections. You want to and you say that citizens other than rights have obligations, that, besides rights, obligations must also be respected, especially when they represent civic duty. You voted that it was every citizen's civic duty to vote. Then give every Bulgarian citizen the opportunity to fulfill this civic duty and vote in local elections after there is a permanent or current address in the given municipality. If he has a permanent address in the municipality, then he has a permanent relationship with him. There's property there, there's family, there's family, there's friends, there's interests, there's professional, there's personal, there's family, and so on. He's connected to this community, even though he might not live there right now. He may come back sometime when he retires, for example, so give him the opportunity to fulfill his civic duty and vote in local elections in the respective municipality. Do not deprive him of the restrictive criterion that you have provided for him to have a mandatory and permanent and current address. Do not deprive him de facto of his right to vote anywhere, because the sedentaryness such as exists in other European countries indicates where, to which municipality the relevant citizen is permanently bound to tell him that it is and only there that he has the right to vote, but he must be able to vote somewhere. As the texts in this paragraph have been edited, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens are devoid of the possibility of fulfilling their civic duty to vote somewhere in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u577	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u578	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've all found out about the civil debt of our colleagues at the DPS. I think it's good to give my colleague Karadaye more time to read the Constitution. I therefore propose a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u579	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debate. Vote 79 MPs: 68 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 83 MPs: 16 against 56, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Georgi Anastasov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 2 against 57 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 182, edited by the Commission in accordance with the text attached in the report and its respective numbering. Vote 85 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 2. Paragraph 182 by importer, following a version by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u580	Paragraph 183 of the basic report. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I, II and III. The Commission shall support the version of Option IV importer and propose the following version of § 183, which shall be renumbered accordingly: I'm sorry, In § 11 of the transitional and concluding provisions, the figure
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u581	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On the proposal option I in § 11 we have an editorial proposal and it reads as follows: the words in a minimum of 5000 Do I have to read the whole text?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u583	I do not see why, because Option IV has been adopted with a Commission text. If you are going to do any editorials on it, there you could do them by the option proposed by the Commission. [[Definitions between MP Dimitar Delchev and Chairman Dimitar Glauchev.]] We postpone this paragraph, we move on to the report. When you are ready, we will return to § 183.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u584	Paragraph 184, I also believe, is related to the issue of machine voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u585	Here, the Commission proposes the removal of the entire paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u586	Paragraph 184 is not supported by the Commission and it proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u587	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 184 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u588	There are two options.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u589	There are no options here. The entire paragraph is proposed to be dropped. This is a Commission proposal. Vote 84 MPs: 71, against 10, abstention 3. The Commission's proposal to reject the paragraph has been adopted. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u590	It's the way it's supposed to be. Once again, I would like to recommend you... when there are two options different to a given paragraph, they offer different things. There may be MPs who approve of one option but who do not approve of the other. You cannot put the entire paragraph to the vote at the same time, even though the Commission has proposed it. You must put the two options to the vote separately in order for those who approve of one but do not approve of the other to be able to make the appropriate choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u591	I agree, Mr. Kazak, but I've given you the opportunity to speak up, to make a volition on both sides. Nobody made one of those. That is why we are voting on the Commission's proposal to drop the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u592	According to Paragraph 185 of the Additional Report: "In Annex 1 to art. 248 ct. 5.3 the figure Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new §12 is being created with the text: supposed to In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5.3 of the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the voting mandates for MPs, the text A new §13 shall be created with the following text: ..... 13................... 13......................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5.3 of the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections for members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, the text A new §14 shall be created with the following text: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5.2 of the Methodology for determining the results of the vote and the allocation of the mandates in elections for municipal councilors, the text The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Dimitar Delchev, made in the order of art. 80: In Annex 1 to Art. 1 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 4 et c. 4.1.1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of those under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6................................................ The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 185, which shall be renumbered accordingly: In Annex 1 to Art. 1 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 248 ct. 4.4.1 shall be added at the end, with the exception of those under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u593	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 4 against 72 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version for § 185 by importer from the Commission, for the reason that it does not support the text of the importer. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 185, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 88 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 14. The Commission's version of § 185 by importer in accordance with the text in its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u594	Proposal by Dimitar Delchev, made in the order of art. 80 to create new paragraphs 149, 149a, 149b and 149c: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Annex 2 to art. 312 ct. 2 after the word "voices" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in art. 333, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. § 149a. In Annex 3 to art. 355 t. 2.1 after the words "Actual voices" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in art. 279, para. 1, t. 6.................................................................................. § 149b. In Annex 4 to art.452, para. 1 in t. 3 after the word "voices" shall be added "with the exception of those under art. 438 para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. § 149c. In Annex 5 to art. 453, para. 1 in t. 2.1 after the word 438 para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission also supports the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. 80: In Annex 5 to art. 453, para. 1 in t. 5.2 the words the municipal electoral quota shall be replaced by the votes submitted for the candidate list. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 149, 149a, 1496 and 149c: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Annex 2 to art. 312 ct. 2 after the word "voices" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in art. 333, para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. § 149a. In Annex 3 to art. 355 t. 2.1 after the words "Actual voices" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in art. 279, para. 1, t. 6.................................................................................. § 1496. In Annex 4 to art. 452, para. 1 in t. 3 shall be added at the end with the exception of those under art. 438 para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. § 149c. In Annex 5 to art. 453, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2.1 after the word 438 para. 1, t. 7.............................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5.2 the words the municipal electoral quota shall be replaced by the votes submitted for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u595	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov. This is a Commission proposal. If you wish, you can tell me which points to vote separately on the text of the Commission, as it brings together the two proposals. The paragraphs are divided.. 149, 149a, 149b and 149c.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u596	I suggest that you put the proposal of MP Danail Kirilov to the vote separately. It is supported by the Commission. It was done in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 " (in Annex No 5 to art. 453, para. 1 in t. 5.2 the words the municipal electoral quota shall be replaced by the votes submitted for the candidate list and shall be replaced by the entire proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u597	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Philip Popov for a separate vote on the last item in § 149c, p. 2...................................................................................... 5.2 the words "the municipal electoral quota' shall be replaced by the votes submitted for the candidate list. Isn't that right, Mr. Popov? Yeah. We are voting on a proposal made by MP Philip Popov. Vote 88 MPs: 16 against 60 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 149, 149a, 149b and 149c. I do not know if they will have this numbering, but with their respective content on the Commission report. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create paragraphs with the corresponding numbering and the corresponding content of an Additional Report by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. Proposals for the creation of new paragraphs with their content on the report have been adopted. Procedure some kind of you want to come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also address the importers and the rapporteur. Please note that in the transitional provisions you have not provided for.. Since the partial election procedure is already in motion at the moment, and not only partial, on 5 June. In practice, by adopting this Code, there are no deadlines and ways to hold the elections for which the procedure has already been initiated. The Central Election Commission cannot prepare the documentation. I therefore suggest that the rapporteur and the importers consider introducing a paragraph that the already launched election procedure, whether partial or not on 5 June, is completed by the old Code. Because there is really no such hypothesis provided here, and here is the place to do it in the Transitional and Final Provisions. It's just that the procedure that has begun until the adoption of this Code is completed on the old one. The opposite would mean failing these elections because the CEC can neither fit in time nor nothing. These elections are already set in the chronicle of the CEC and we miss all deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u599	Here you are, Mr. Kirilov and you, in the manner of conduct you must want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u600	Dear Mr. President, in relation to the procedure requested by my colleague Philip Popov, we are prepared to propose a text with a proposal to create a new § 151a. [[Heckling]] We haven't gotten there, but if he insists, we'll make the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u601	No, when we get there, then. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Moreover, it remained § 183, which we postponed here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u602	And for § 183, I would also like to give an explanation and a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u603	Okay. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u604	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u605	We vote on the name of the subdivision by text of an importer which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u606	Under § 186, there is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly to dismiss § 186. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 186, which shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u607	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 18, against 62, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 186, which is supported by the Commission in full. Vote 98 MPs: 84 against 14, no abstentions. The text of the importer for § 186 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u608	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Paragraph 187 "A proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 187: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For the period of term of office of the Central Election Commission 2014, 2019, when after subsequent elections for MPs or members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria there are elected new parliamentary parties and coalitions or new parties or coalitions that have been elected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament but are not parliamentary represented, the composition of the Central Election Commission shall be supplemented by one member, proposed by these parties or coalitions to the President of the Republic. The new members of the Central Election Commission shall be appointed by the President of the Republic for a period until the term of office of the members in force has been completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u609	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that the Constitution should be respected not only by the MPs, but also by the President of the Republic. These MPs, who were also in the previous National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, remember that in the appointment of the Central Election Commission, which is currently composed of 25 people, in the arithmetic calculations of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, another seat was laid down in the Central Election Commission, and with the irregular actions of the President of the Republic then, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was wronged. In order for the Central Election Commission to be able to work, we have made a compromise in this Chamber here, and the relative burden of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, although it was wronged to make the Central Election Commission work, we agreed then and it is currently working in this Chamber with a wrongful burden of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. At the moment, with the texts proposed in this paragraph, the additional relative burden of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is eliminated and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is wronged. The other side is the more important and principled issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly who called upon the Permanent Central Election Commission, which failed to comply with the proposals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and in the previous National Assembly, when proposed after each election of the National Assembly, as the configuration and relative weight of the different parliamentary groups could be changed, and the composition of the Central Election Commission would also change, and the Central Election Commission would remain a permanent body with its administration. Then you did not agree with this, and now you are making proposals indirectly to cancel the ongoing Central Election Commission, changing its composition, changing the relative weight of the different groups. From this point of view, Mr. President, I am making the following proposal: to cancel the text for a permanent Central Election Commission. Each of us here can calculate the compositions on the basis of the different parliamentary groups and the relative burdens and on which a parliamentary group as many representatives of the Central Election Commission are assigned, as many proposals to make. Let us choose and appoint a Central Election Commission until the election of the next National Assembly, where there will be a different composition of the parliamentary groups and then again re-defined the composition of the Central Election Commission. Everything else is demagogy, and to the detriment of those who have always compromised in the name of national interest in order to do the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u611	Do you make such an offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u612	I'm making such an offer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u613	- What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. After him, Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u614	Mr President, honourable Members, I am pleased to have heard the findings in the debate on this provision, which was proposed in the Transitional and Final Rules, as was in line with all our warnings in the debate in the Forty-second National Assembly on the status and shortcomings of the Central Election Commission. We have repeatedly warned where it will come from, repeatedly warned that the claim that this is a permanent CEC does not correspond to reality. We also warned that the mechanism, which is established both in the selection and selection of CEC members, and in their appointment, except that it derogates from practices and rights of the President of the Republic, does not in any way really improve the election of members of the Central Election Commission. We also warned you then that it is not only dualism, but there is a deep contradiction in the claim of a permanent professional commission, but one that reflects some proportion of political representation. In any case, texts are what we see at present. Mr. Karadaye shared here a dream of mine from the forty-second parliament. Yes, Mr. Karadaye, the provisions of art. 46 and 47 are originally for annulment, but we already have one member of the Central Election Commission. I will not recall the scandals and problems that were related to the selection and selection of this particular Central Election Commission, but it is a fact and is acting with its mandate. What we warned you about then happened. Yes, we have a very different picture of parliamentary representation at present, and yes, there are parliamentary groups that do not have representatives. I will ask you: in that regime, which you then supported as a majority, where is the fair defense? Or do you insist and defend the proportion, but as an initial photo, as it was for the then election, to the then state? Yes, but the political process is dynamic and if there is a claim for political representation, and it has it directly expressed in the current text, I repeat, how will the principle of independence be implemented? Therefore, after severe debates and after three delays in the Legal Commission, and in order not to violate, to comply with the Constitution, Mr Karadayi, not to violate the existing mandate, we have proposed, and some consensus has been formed around this,.......................... the newly represented political forces to have the opportunity to propose one candidate each. If you ask about the proportion both in terms of GERB and in terms of GERB the proportion changes. If you're asking about our proportion in the original formation, yes, and it was originally broken. We have a member who has resigned and, as you can see, we are in no way novelting and we are not putting the question of supplementing this representative of ours. He was also Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. But we have no illusion that parliamentary parties who have lost their support in these elections will withdraw their applications in proportion. We don't have that illusion. Therefore, the only thing fair at this time to maintain the mandate is to accept all the appointments of three other members. Here I point out that there is no deadline for this. That is, when the parties are ready and we are going to procedurally the most economical way to do so through a decree of the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u615	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I can't and I don't know what your dreams are...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u617	Well, I shared them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u618	...but I can also see what you're offering. What is written before us are your proposals and we have heard very clearly, I believe, from this tribune the term you used.................................................................................................. But justly according to whom and according to what criteria is fair, Mr. Kirilov? Because, apart from seeing your proposals that we cannot qualify, the least that is fair, we also remember what you did in the previous appointment of the Central Election Commission. Your actions were most likely fair in your opinion, but to the detriment of us, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and in our view, they were also unfair. There seems to be dynamics in your sense, your deep sense of justice. Thank you for your attention. And otherwise, for the proportions, fellow Members, it is very easy to calculate by any one of us who is here in this room for no more than one minute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u619	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u620	Dear Mr. Kirilov, a very short line. All members of the Central Election Commission, each of them individually, have the same powers, the same rights and the same obligations, but one of them will be appointed under one procedure, the other by another procedure. It is as if in the National Assembly one should be elected, passing through the choice, the others should be appointed by decree of the President. That's kind of what you're doing with this proposal. I think that it does not correspond to the original philosophy of the body itself as a single body with the same rights and obligations of each of the members, because the method of election also determines the way of the future functioning of that body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u621	Any other MPs? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u622	Thank you, Madam President. As much as I don't want to answer those questions, there's no way. Especially at the sight of Mr. Karadayi. No, Mr. Karadaye, it's not a matter of dreams or subjective experiences. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] The matter was reflected by your majority in this text of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u623	It's not one of ours, it's got shorthands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u624	And proportions, and justice. [[DRF lines]] If you want, but I will not waste parliamentary time, are established in para. Art. 8 and 9 46. So you could read them and meet them. [[DPS lines.]] This is your view of the proportion of the otherwise independent and I do not know how a formed composition of the Central Election Commission is. Regarding Mr. Popov's line, I will say this. If anyone wins the most from this decision, and Mr. Karadayi asked me for justice, I will answer the following: BSP wins the most. BSP should, while maintaining the ratio of losing three mandates in the composition of the Commission, which is not 25 members, as Mr Karadayi said, it is from 19 members, minus one who is resigned. We actually have 18 members there. So whoever is going to calculate the proportions between parties has to comply with these facts. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] This decision, which has been proposed, is not my decision, it is the decision of the Legal Commission. So, again, we've been thinking about it for a long time, but we've come to this balance. If we were looking for a fair solution, we should have said that we are assessing at this time the compliance of the representation of each party and where there is a discrepancy, because no one from BSP will leave, draw lots and withdraw three members. But in order not to come to one, let's say, an exclusion procedure, on parole, so we have adopted, rudely speaking, to deepen injustice. Thank you. [[(Replications. Voices by DPS: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u625	Procedure Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u626	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I propose a procedure to end the debates and vote on the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u627	A reverse opinion? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u628	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, you have heard yourself from the admission of the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs that a proposal is being proposed, which further deepens injustice. So clearly, the proposal made by the Commission deserves to be considered, reviewed and discussed at least once again. I would like to ask the following question: if in this period by 2019 there are early elections again and new parliamentary groups appear here, how many people will CEC become? [[Loud noise and lines.]] How many more new members will we have to complement in the CEC to please everyone?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u629	You should have thought of that two years ago. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u630	Colleagues, there's been a procedural proposal, there's been a reverse opinion. I put to the vote Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's proposal. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against 13, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Colleagues, I vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission We vote on the name of the importing division supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 86 against 13, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission proposal, which generally supports the text of the importer for § 187, which is... [[Noise and lines.]] What offer has been made, no reflection? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Is there a proposal on the Commission's text? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u631	Karadayi asked for the annulment of all texts about the CEC, but I don't think this...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u632	Colleagues, there is no way on this report to put to the vote a proposal to cancel all texts on the CEC. [[(Reply from the MP Mustafa Karadayi: What are we doing?!) What are we doing?]] Say you want this text to be canceled, Mr. Karadaye. I understand that your joint proposal also contains a concrete proposal to reject this paragraph. Is that how I understand it? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Since, in accordance with our procedural rules, proposals are first put to the vote to reject a text, I put to the vote Mr Karadayi's proposal to reject § 151 on the Commission report, which in the main, final report will have another numbering, but this amendment for the term of office of the Central Election Commission and so on, Mr Karadayi proposes to reject it. We are voting on this proposal. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] They voted 107 MPs: 17 against 82, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 151 "Transitional and final provisions" which will normally take place with a new renumbering. We are voting on the Commission's proposal, fellow Members. They voted 108 MPs: for 94, against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 188 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u633	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer which is reflected in § 151.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u634	Which we just voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u635	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 189 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 189 is out." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 189 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u636	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal, which is to reject § 189 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The proposal shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u637	Please, before § 190, which is a very important paragraph, concerns the electronic remote vote and, in view of the procedure made by colleague Philip Popov and because we believe that this is his systematic place, I propose and please create a new paragraph with a corresponding number with the following text: New § 189a: 189a. The provisions of this Law do not apply to partial and new elections for which, at the date of entry into force of this Law, there is a promulgated decree of the President of the Republic on their timing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u638	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 151a, following the numbering of the paragraphs on the reports with the corresponding agreement that in The editing is: The provisions of this Law do not apply to the partial and new elections for which, at the date of entry into force of this Law, there is a promulgated decree of the President of the Republic for their postponement. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u639	Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 190 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 190, which shall become paragraph by the relevant number: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) When producing elections after 1 January 2018, an experimental remote electronic vote shall be made available. An experimental remote electronic vote shall take place in three successively produced elections, including partial elections. (2) Remote electronic voting shall be produced in one election area outside the country. The election area for the vote shall be determined by the Central Election Commission by lot by a methodology adopted by the Commission no later than 10 days from the date of expiry of the elections. Voters participating in the vote must meet the conditions laid down for the respective type of election. (3) By 1 January 2018, the Central Election Commission shall conduct three simulations of remote electronic voting, which shall vote for fictional parties, coalitions or candidates. (4) The Central Election Commission shall receive data on the voters under para. 2 sentence 3rd of the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with a scope determined by a decision of the Central Election Commission and notified in writing no later than 18 days from the date of the appointment of the elections the voters of the opportunity to vote experimentally remotely. (5) The voters who want to vote remotely shall be registered on the website under para. 19 and indicate an e-mail address for contact. (6) General requirements relating to the vote by paper ballots shall apply to the remote electronic vote. (7) The results of the experimental remote voting under para. 1 shall be reported in a row defined by the rules of para. 12. The results of the remote electronic vote shall not be taken into account when determining the results of the elections. (8) Any voter who has voted experimentally remotely may vote in the same election with a paper ballot or machine. (9) The Central Election Commission shall organise and conduct an e-vote explanatory campaign. (10) The Central Election Commission shall assign the remote electronic voting and related activities and organise, manage and control the order for the conduct of the voting and processing of the data thereof. (11) The cost of producing the remote electronic vote is at the expense of the state budget. (12) The Central Election Commission shall adopt rules for the production of the remote electronic vote and for the aggregation of its results no later than 55 days before the election day. Rules shall be published on the Commission's website. (13) The Central Election Commission shall establish a permanent specialised technical security and technical control unit for remote electronic voting. The unit coordinates its activities with the Council of Ministers. In carrying out their duties, the members of the unit shall be officials within the meaning of the Criminal Code. (14) Remote electronic voting shall be carried out by means of a remote electronic voting system. The Central Election Commission shall determine the technical requirements for the software and hardware part of the system. The system shall: 1. ensure easy and understandable access to voting mechanisms and ways; 2. offer the voters instructions for voting actions; 3. ensure that only persons eligible under para. 2 sentence 3 and registered, may vote; 4. ensure reliable and rapid identification of the identity of voters; 5. provide equal volume and quality information for each party, coalition or candidate; 6. ensure the secret of voting and free expression of the will of voters by means of technical means; 7. provides the ability to easily navigate the user software and, in particular, the newsletter; 8. does not require special skills from the voter other than those necessary for the use of internet terminals; 9. allows use by the selector of all operating systems; 10. provides the possibility to pass the vote for no more than 5 minutes; 11. ensure that each voter casts only one vote and that each vote is kept and counted only once; 12. shall be certified according to the highest ISO standard of quality and durability of the software and hardware used; 13. ensure maximum reliability against external interference and unauthorised access, including against hacking; 14. store the data from the vote; 15. enables aggregation of the results, distribution by election regions and sending them electronically to the Central Election Commission after the vote is closed; 16. ensure that the connection between the electoral terminal and the server components is made in a way that prevents third parties from changing or accessing the information exchanged; 17. maintain an electronic diary of the electoral process with an indication of all peculiarities and deviations from the intended regime; 18. ensure easy maintenance of software and hardware and quick removal of technical malfunctions; 19. allows monitoring of the electoral process by independent and authorized persons and bodies; 20. allows audit and verification by authorised authorities; 21. has been audited before each choice and the results of the audit shall be published on the website of the Central Election Commission no later than 10 days before the start of the remote electronic vote; 22. has a publicly available source code; 23. provides a technological opportunity to identify potential infringements of this Code; 24. allows voters to verify whether their voice is correctly recorded without revealing the secret of the vote; 25. allows independent counting of votes; 26. enables the voter to signal in a flagrant manner an infringement of his or her electoral rights and to disregard his or her vote in such cases; 27. meet the requirements for network and information security as defined in the regulation under art. 43, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Governance; 28. does not allow adding, removing or replacing votes outside the standard electoral process; 29. meet the requirements of the ordinance under para. 27; 30. corresponds to Annex III to Council Recommendation REC (2004)11 on legal, operational and technical standards for electronic voting; 31. consists of components, each of which is electronically signed by the Central Election Commission, within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. (15) The Central Election Commission shall elect a certification organisation to verify the compliance of the system with the requirements of para. 14. Registered observers shall have the right to monitor the certification process. (16) The history of the access of officials to all servers used by the remote electronic voting system under para. 14 shall be published on the website of the Central Election Commission daily within the period under para. 19th sentence, fourth. (17) The Central Election Commission shall prepare the system and introduce lists of parties, coalitions and candidates no later than 14 days before the election day and, if necessary, shall create private keys for the operation of the system no later than 24 hours and no later than two days before the start of the remote electronic voting period under para. 19th sentence, fourth. (18) In the remote electronic vote, the voter makes his choice through a joint ballot on a visual, audio or tactile terminal at which he marks his vote in a single way. The newsletter is designed in the same way as the paper bulletin, allowing the voter not to vote for any party, coalition or candidate. The Central Election Commission shall establish the model of the ballot. The voter may not change his vote by re-distribution of electronic voting. (19) No later than 18 days from the date of expiry of the elections, the Central Election Commission shall open a website for registration for remote electronic voting, as well as for providing information on this vote. The website contains information on the necessary actions in the remote electronic voting. The website offers equal volume and quality information about the parties, coalitions or candidates registered in the elections. The website shall provide access to an application allowing remote electronic voting in a period of 96 hours, which shall expire at 24 hours of the day preceding three days on the country's territory. (20) Voter under para. 2, who wishes to vote remotely electronically, shall be registered through the website under para. 19, after having performed successful electronic identification, no later than two days before exercising his right to vote. The system automatically checks whether the voter meets the conditions under para. Two sentence three. (21) In the case of registration and voting, the voter shall be identified electronically by order laid down in law and in accordance with Regulation (EU) No Additional means may be used to confirm the electronic identification carried out. (22) The information referred to in para. 20 is processed and stored in compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. (23) The vote by the Annex under para. 19 includes the following stages: 1. the selector opens the application; 2. The voter shall be electronically identified by means of electronic identification means under para. 21; 3. after successful identification by t. 2 shows the ballot identical to the paper ballot for the respective type of choice; the voter may not vote for any party, coalition or candidate; 4. The voter marks his vote for a candidate list in a uniform way and, if he wishes, expresses his preference (preffer) for a candidate from his chosen candidate list of a party or coalition depending on the type of election; after the voter has made his choice, the system requires confirmation of the choice; 5. the voter may change his choice three times before his confirmation; 6. after confirmation of the choice by c. 4 The vote of the voter shall be recorded and stored in an electronic electoral box which shall not permit disclosure of the identity of the voter and the manner of voting; 7. after recording the voice in the box by item. 6 the voter receives a notice of the end of the vote; 8. Upon completion of the vote, the information on the choice made shall be unavailable for subsequent users; the information on the identity of the voter and how to vote shall be deleted. (24) Data from the remote electronic voting for parties, coalitions and candidates shall not be disclosed until the end of the election day. (25) The voter has the right to check whether his voice has been accepted and counted correctly by the system without revealing the secret of the vote. The order, time limits and technical means for the inspection under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of para. 12. (26) The technical parameters, standards and procedures for the implementation of the remote electronic voting shall be determined by the rules of para. 12. (27) Where the security or failure of the system is compromised, or where there is a technological impossibility to guarantee basic electoral rights, the Central Election Commission shall, by reasoned decision, suspend or terminate the remote electronic vote or not launch the voting system. The Central Election Commission shall notify voters on its website and mass media of the reasons and publish a detailed report no later than 24 hours after the decision has been given. (28) Observers shall have the right to be present in the information centres serving the remote electronic voting system, as well as when counting the results of the remote electronic voting, as determined by the Central Election Commission. Work in information centers is broadcast in real time on the Commission's website. (29) Observers shall have the right to verify that the digital fingerprint of the system in the information centres corresponds to the order publicly announced by the Central Election Commission. (30) After taking into account the results of the experimental remote voting, the Central Election Commission shall delete all the keys created in the preparation of the vote under para. 17. The Committee for Remote Electronic Voting shall back up and delete the voting database remotely submitted after the expiry of the time limits for appeal against the outcome of the election or entry into force of the court's decision but not earlier than 21 days after the end of the election day. The archive shall be kept until the next election in order set by the Central Election Commission. (31) The Central Election Commission summarizes the results, publishes them in machine readable form and conducts a detailed analysis of the remote electronic vote. (32) In the event that an experimental remote electronic vote has been conducted successfully in ensuring the secret of the vote, the security of the system and the civil control of the electoral process, and no significant violations have been detected during the elections for MEPs from the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, voters may vote remotely electronically, and the results of the vote shall be taken into account in determining the results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u640	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u641	Madam President, honourable Members! Two very brief editorial proposals that we have agreed with colleague Kirilov and which are being imposed by the votes already adopted so far. First of all, in para. 2 the words "outside the country" should be dropped, given what we adopted earlier for the chosen region "outside the country."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u642	And instead of the regions, it should become a region of choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u643	Yes, editorialally to become a chosen area. Thank you, Madam President. The other more important proposal relating to para. 18th sentence last to be dropped, namely the sentence: The selector cannot change his vote by re-distant e-voting. This is what we want to drop and, in its place, we propose to create a new para. 19 and the other paragraphs will be renumbered by para. 20 to para. 34. The text will read as follows: The elector shall have the right to change his vote by remote electronic means, respecting only the last vote issued during a vote before the end of the period for electronic vote from a distance, subject to the principle of one person. Madam President, I think you understand the reason for these proposals, especially for the latter. One of the basic principles of remote electronic voting is really that a person can change his voice. This is a guarantee of non-exercise vote under pressure or controlled vote. Let's bet it in the experiment, as it's written, and it happens by common rules. I hope that you will support these texts, which are the result of a lot of work in both the Legal Committee and with the experts of the Initiative Committee,............Vote without borders................................................................... I hope they meet public expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u644	Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u645	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be brief. I'd like to share some things. Unlike failure, which is known to be always an orphan, success is always with many fathers! I say this because I believe that if we accept the texts as the Commission proposes, I believe that this will be one of the great successes of the forty-third National Assembly. I therefore invite you all to support the electronic vote. The Commission has indeed developed very good texts. I'm just gonna pull out a few accents. We leave enough time to purge the system, work it out in the best way, so it can't be compromised by some sabotage, being sought out or due to a failure to clear the system. It is very important to say that the Law is technologically neutral. We set only the minimum of props in the Law, which would then allow a very sustainable platform and a genuine quality electronic vote to be drawn up through the regulations. What my colleague Slavov has just proposed is an extremely important opportunity to change the voice. This is the guarantee that you will not be forced to vote in any way. It is an extremely important opportunity to guarantee the secret of the vote. In general, all considerations raised during the debates as leading security considerations are addressed. I call on you to support the text as it is. Congratulations to the Legal Committee! She's really done a very good job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u646	Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u647	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will mark just a few of the proposals in this long text: (3) By 1 January 2018, the Central Election Commission shall conduct three simulations of remote electronic voting, which shall vote for fictional parties, coalitions or candidates. (13) The Central Election Commission shall establish a permanent specialised technical security and coordination unit. In carrying out their duties, the members of the unit shall be officials within the meaning of the Criminal Code. (7) The results of the experimental remote voting under para. 1 shall be reported in a row defined in the rules of para. 12. The results of the remote electronic vote shall not be taken into account when determining the results of the elections. (9) The Central Election Commission shall organise and conduct an e-vote explanatory campaign. (11) The cost of producing the remote electronic vote is at the expense of the state budget. What are you doing, honourable MPs!? In fact, you are making an expensive electronic game that will be taken over by the state budget, by every single taxpayer. From the mothers for whom there was no money, but they pay their insurance and taxes, for them you will do this expensive electronic game. Because these are the lyrics. Why are you doing this is the other question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u648	Because we are implementing a decision of the National Assembly taken after a national referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u649	No. Madam President, please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u650	You're asking questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u651	Rhetorical, as they say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u652	But your answer is different from mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u653	Let me get this straight. I'm not asking you specifically. [[Noise and lines.]] Why are you doing this? To prove that there is security in the electronic remote voting. There's no point in spending extra money on the budget! Such security does not exist and cannot exist because the flash drives or cards, or whatever you will give to the voter, their electronic signatures or whatever procedures there you want will be collected from their velmos, from theirs, come on I will not call them employers, but from the people they are at least economically dependent on. And the people they are economically dependent on are dependent to one degree or another on the state institutions that you are currently managing. I imagine how the vote will be, because the vote itself will not take place in a sectary election committee. It will be performed outside a controlled environment, will be performed in a computer room, somewhere in Bulgaria or outside Bulgaria. There is no computer specialist to guarantee that there will be no one standing next to the voter's shoulder telling him who to vote for or vote for, whether one, two, three or five times. Moreover, honourable MPs, you seem to follow Roosevelt's maxim, which reads: "Do what you can with what you have where you are. You've really done what you can do to a confused legal act with great internal contradictions. With what you have, a truly unstable, heavy coalition in which coalition partners speak a lot, of course, and the thirst for power. Where you are, unfortunately, in the Republic of Bulgaria! Do not accept this text because it will lead to a next change of election result, to changes and forgeries, to a non-reflection of the real vote. For one such experiment will spend only budget money and nothing more! That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u654	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? National Representative Tsetska Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u655	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Glauchev, I'm sorry, I'm patiently not in the debate for a few days. Mr. Popov, this action to amend the Election Code is done mainly because of the introduction of electronic remote voting. Colleagues, I recall that a national referendum was held at the initiative of President Plevneliev at the same time as the local elections last year. The National Assembly has adopted a decision which obliges us to make these changes. Even if you ask the questions you have made publicly in plenary today, I think it is untenable! Yes, I share your concerns on a purely personal level. We are all worried about the way the system will be built to guarantee the principles of voting, of the secret vote and so on in the Constitution. Colleagues, however, every novelty naturally raises questions and concerns. If the first primitives from the caves didn't show their hand outside the cave without fearing that it was raining, thundering, shaking and could fall a tree, where would mankind be today!? [[Applause from GERB.]] Today in the 21st century, let us not wave a scarecrow about things that are impossible because we are witnessing progress in technology. I am convinced that it is possible very soon in Bulgaria to vote electronically remotely in full guarantee of the secret of the vote and of all those things that excite us today that there is no pressure on the voter and he freely, of his own will, to exercise his right to choose. [[Applause from GERB, the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front. He's shouting, "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u656	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u657	Thank you for your reply, Madam President. I asked why you were doing it this way and I replied to you to create some guarantees and prerequisites for whether the electronic remote voting from external interventions was protected. However, it cannot be protected, regardless of whether it is from a referendum or from some MPs. I repeat this: there is no way to protect it. I'm not talking here, Madam President, about data transfer. Data transmission may be, may not be protected. By the way, if I'm not mistaken, at §8 I'll do some editing later. It says to be maximum protected from external attacks. It is not maximum protection but to ensure the inability of external invadings that the text should be read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u658	You're gonna do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u659	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u660	Indeed, technological progress is moving forward. We shouldn't be behind him. But, Madam President, as an old electoral, you know what happens in elections. [[Radio.]] You know what kind of repression we're talking about now, when people go to vote in a session committee, how they get their IDs taken before, how they get back, what, all the repression that goes along with the election process. This is happening. And when we have an electronic remote outside of a C.E.O., what are you gonna do? You will legalize the price of the vote bought because you will oblige people to go to vote in fear of being excluded from the vote lists deleted. You will legalize it and it will fall because the vote dealers are going to have these criminals, in fact, less cost to work to accompany people to the sectional committees. They'll just take away their flash drives and vote as they see fit and as they see fit. That is why technological progress is yes, but unfortunately in this process we are, as you have said, far, far back in the cave age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u661	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Procedure requested the people representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u662	Thank you. Honourable President, I propose an end to the debate and a vote on the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u663	A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u664	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a reverse proposal, as this is about a debate which in the European Union...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u665	Isn't that a counterproposal? Talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u666	Yeah, I'm against it because I mean...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u667	Please don't call from the gym. Mr. Ivanov, please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u668	...that the debate must continue, as this topic in the European Union is resolved in a very simple way. Only two countries have an electronic vote. Are we gonna be the innovators? That's why the debate must continue. [[GERB lines.]] The debate must continue and the fact that you are ending it means that you are afraid of what will be said. We may be five people, but what we are talking about is 25 countries in the European Union without one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u669	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov to end the debate. Please vote. [[Radio, GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u670	You turned him into a circus.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u671	They voted 114 MPs: 99 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u672	Editorial note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u674	Mr President, another editorial note in the text proposed by the Commission, i.e. 29? meets the requirements of the Ordinance under para. 27 "In fact, it is taken into account instead of the sub-paragraph. 27...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u675	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u676	The way you're holding it, here you go. [[GERB lines.]] I ask for silence and order in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The discussion has been closed and it must be voted on. You give the opportunity to make proposals, even editorial proposals in which you cannot be taken into account. Please do not put the editorial proposal to the vote. It was not made within the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u678	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u679	Bravo! Pull him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u680	The offer has been withdrawn. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: 22, against 84, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. There were editorial proposals made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Petar Slavov. The first one is in al. 2: The remote electronic vote shall take place in one electoral area, as it is written in one electoral area. It is obvious that this is about an election district in the country. I mean, out of the country, out of the country. It takes place in an election district. His other proposal is in para. 18 drop the last sentence: The selector cannot change his vote by re-dieting e-voting. And then a new para is created. 19, which reads: "The elector has the right to change his vote by remote electronic means, with only the last vote issued during a vote before the end of the period for electronic vote from a distance in accordance with the principle of one person's vote. I put to the vote the first proposal in para. 2. Please vote. Vote 124 MPs: 102, against 17, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal that has been presented to you: the change in para. 18, the creation of a new para. 19 and the renumbering of the remaining paragraphs, which are now of para. Nineteen to the end. Please vote. Vote 119 MPs: 105 against 5, abstention 9. The proposals of the MP Petar Slavov have been accepted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 190 by importer, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the rapporteur, along with the proposals of the MP Petar Slavov. Please vote. Vote 127 MPs: 118, against 6, abstention 3. Paragraph 190 by importer, edited by the Commission and with the proposals of the National Representative Petar Slavov has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u681	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u682	Negative vote by MP Mihail Mikov. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u683	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Honourable Madam President, Honourable...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u684	And the chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u685	Colleagues, don't call! That's exactly what Mr. Mikov said. He turned to him personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u686	I voted against it because these texts allow for manipulation of the electronic vote and it is set out in para. 13, where the specialized unit coordinates its activities with the Council of Ministers! Notice, not with the Election Commission, but with the Council of Ministers! This means that the current Council of Ministers will fully draw up the results and influence them in the electronic vote. In addition to all the arguments shared before me that it is uncertain, this is obviously an opportunity for this to become coordinated with the Council of Ministers with regard to electronic voting. Furthermore, there is no possibility that everything that is written here can be implemented within the framework of a budget of the Central Election Commission. In previous texts, you have accepted that the Commission is fully preparing the technical elections. If you do not know, the Commission's budget is 1 million a year, and the cost of the elections is Thirdly, we must say that the Central Election Commission is composed of members who are themselves responsible. When giving quality to officials of technical staff in the specialised unit means that they are aligned by the status of members of the Election Commission. Otherwise, technical persons do not have the quality of officials within the meaning of... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's obviously about the possibility of manipulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u687	Moving on to § 191, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u688	Dear Madam President, § 191. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 191 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u689	Statements? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u690	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, literally with two sentences. What is proposed in this text is that the employer is able to relieve the worker or the employee from working so that he can exercise his active selective right, which is why he is intended to release him within half a working day and pay him a remuneration based on his wage calculated on that half a working day. Having introduced as a civil debt the exercise of electoral law, I think it is appropriate to give this opportunity to the employer and the worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u691	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that we reject § 191. We are voting, fellow Members, on the Commission's proposal. Vote 124 MPs: 103, against 13, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u692	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u693	Mr. Bayraktarov wants a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u694	Madam President, I want a re-voting procedure because my colleague Boris Yachev failed to vote, and I was under the impression that many of the MPs did not understand that the annulment of this paragraph practically deprives a large part of the Bulgarian citizens to exercise their constitutional right to vote. If they work in a continuous production cycle and the employer does not release them, they simply cannot implement this constitutional right. [[Reply from DPS: It is not a legal obligation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u695	Citizen's debt!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u696	Right! Okay, if it's an obligation to you, vote for a vote and support the proposal that we've made because it's...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u697	And you want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u698	I want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u699	Revoting! Vote 119 MPs: 96 against 15, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u700	Paragraph 192. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov § 192 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 192 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u701	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 112 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u702	Paragraph 193. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 193, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 172, para. 2 Before the words "Chapter 5" is added "Chapter 3," Section III" and the words "Art." 167, para. Art. 3, 4 and 5, Art. 169d (d) is to be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u703	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal, which supports, in principle, § 193 for changes in the PPC, in the version of the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 100, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u704	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In the Law on Special Intelligence (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 Before the words "Chapter 5" is added "Chapter 3," Section III" and the words "Art." 167, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 169d (d) are deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 words - Crimes under art. 167, para. Art. 3, 4 and 5 and art. 169d (d) shall be replaced by a serious criminal offence under Chapter Three, Section III (d), and shall be replaced by a serious criminal offence under Section III (d) of Section III (d) of Chapter III (d).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u705	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph for amendments to the Special Intelligence Funds Act. Cancel the vote. There's been a technical error. Which text was missed by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u706	The text in art. 13, para. 1, t. 6. This is in terms of t. 2. I am making an editorial proposal for an addition to art. 13, para. 1, t. 6 the words "crime" under art. 167, para. 3, 4 and 5 and in art. 169d (d) shall be replaced by serious criminal offences under Chapter Three, Section III. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1 in art. 3, para 3 should be added. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u707	And what is the difference between the text of the importer and what the Commission proposes? In practice, one to one text of the importer is supported. How should the correct text sound finally? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u708	Madam President, the correct text is as follows: The Special Intelligence Means Act makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 prior to the words the title 5 is added the title 3 section III and the words the title. 167, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 169d (d) are deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 6 words "crimes" under art. 167, para. Art. 3, 4 and 5 and art. 169d (d) shall be replaced by serious criminal offences under Chapter Three, Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u709	Thank you. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph in the Law amending the Special Intelligence Means Act in the version of the importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 97, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u710	Paragraph 194. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 194 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u711	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u712	Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 195 - drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 195, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number. .. In the Law on Civil Registration in art. 99b, para. 1 the words............................................................................. 99a (s) shall be replaced by "c'. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Art. 1 and 4 or art. Ninety-nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u713	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes the new amendment to the Civil Registration Act on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u714	Paragraph 196. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 196, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u715	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u716	Paragraph 197 "The Law on Political Parties'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u717	Paragraph 197. Proposal by Dimitar Tanev and a group of MPs: 1. The following amendments shall be made to § 197: 2. A new item is being created. 2 - 6 with the following text: "2." A new article shall be created. 24a with the following text: Art. 24a. Political parties cannot acquire real estate by means of State subsidy funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u718	Where's my colleague Tanev? Colleague, are you interested in this proposal? It's also from a group of MPs. Does it have any of the importers?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u719	3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1 at the beginning of the text are added the words (b) A new para shall be created. 4 the following text: The balance of the subsidy shall be retained by the Ministry of Finance and paid in full, irrespective of the year in which it was accumulated, up to three days after the date of the announcement of the date of the next election, with the exception of partial local elections. 4. Art. 27, para. 1 is amended as follows: The amount of subsidy for political parties and coalitions shall be determined as follows: 1. 11 BGN for each received real vote in the last parliamentary elections up to 150 000 votes; 2. 10 BGN for each received real vote in the last parliamentary elections - from 150 001th vote to 250 000th vote; 3. 9 levs each received a real vote in the last parliamentary elections - from 250 001th vote to 350 000th vote; 4. 8 BGN for each received real vote in the last parliamentary elections - from 350 001...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u720	Wait a minute. Mr. Tanev is here. You withdraw this offer. [[Applause.]] So, what does the Commission propose?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u721	The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 197, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u722	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u723	Dear Madam President, I am proposing a supplement in § 197 by importer to create a new item. 2 containing the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Article 2 (c) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the I point out that this supplement aims to eliminate any doubt that the votes from the protest vote can produce any funds from the parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u724	And, respectively, et cetera. 2 and 3 are going to be t. Three and four. Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for an editorial supplement made by Mr. Kirilov, namely: In the Law on Political Parties to create a new item. 2 to read: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 after the words "Active voices" to be added by the parties and coalitions. We are voting on this proposal by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 99 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the entire § 197 importer for amendments to the Law on Political Parties, i.e. 1, the new t. 2 and then points 2 and 3 respectively will become points 3 and 4. We vote § 197 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u725	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it's really late, but we still needed someone to explain. We adopt new texts in the Law on Political Parties, new restrictions that sound good in general, that it is not acceptable to use public resources from political parties, but I would like, for example, to have had someone answered the following question: if Mr. Tsvetanov, acting as Vice-President of GERB, is using state transport, being both president of the parliamentary group, using cars of the National Assembly or the National Assembly, or Mr. Danail Kirilov as a member of the Executive Commission, I do not know if he is in it, well, if someone from the Executive Commission is using a car of the National Assembly, if someone raises the question Why, aceba, Mr. Tsvetanov is using a state car when he goes to the headquarters of GERB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u726	I understand that you voted because you didn't understand the text, Mr. Kazak, but you could have asked the Commission in the debates and so on. Personal explanation Mr. Kirilov will explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u727	A very quick personal explanation because I was mentioned by name. I almost wondered if I should be offended, Mr. Kazak. You didn't appear to be participating in this part of the Legal Committee meeting. The amendments in question, and here I explain as an importer, follow fully the Commission report Greco and aim to tighten, I say, the financial discipline in terms of political parties. With regard to individual transport cases, I would say that decisions are principled here and I would not like to waste your time explaining now. [[Relations from BSP LB, calls from the place of the MP Mihail Mikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u728	We'll continue with the next text. [[Noisy lines from SG of BSP LB.]] In § 198 for amendments to the Law on Local Self-government. Will someone report it, Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u729	Dear Madam President, the honourable colleague Mikov puts interesting questions in a wonderful light. [[Radio.]] The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 198, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u730	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on the Commission proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u731	Paragraph 199 is presented in three versions by three separate importers. Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs: In § 199, in the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria, in art. 16 words "100 people" shall be replaced by "250 voters." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 199, option two, the number....300.. is replaced by..200............................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 16, p. 1 the number The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 199, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: In the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 16, p. 1 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u732	Statements? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u733	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This provision provides for what should be the minimum number of voters in order to allow the direct election of mayors of mayors. Let me remind you that so far, according to the Acting Code, this is 100 people. Perhaps they would object that in such small settlements it is sometimes difficult to broadcast suitable candidates, and if this motive can be partly adopted to raise the border, then the proposed amendment to be 400 people is too high. During all the years when multi-party elections were held for mayors of mayors this border ranged from 100 to 250 and 350. The current majority turns out to be the most democratic. It seems to him that these are a small number of people and suggests that they become 400 by now. I therefore draw attention to the fact that if there is really a demand for the necessary balance, it must be around the proposals contained in the various options, except what the Commission is proposing in the end, that is, the Commission has adopted GERB's proposal. For them, democracy is measured only in large numbers. And this should be borne in mind by Bulgarian citizens who do not live in the largest and larger settlements. I therefore propose that the MPs, who have a stronger democratic urge, support some of the other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u734	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, the moment I declared the debate closed, no one raised a hand. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor for procedure.]] In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ivanov. [[Heckling]] You have a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u735	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure was to end the debate when Mr. Yanaki Stoilov was speaking, so I propose a procedure to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u736	A counteroffer? Mr. Mikov was first. [[Noise and lines.]] Vidin is far from Vratsa, but they're more agile. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u737	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, it is really worth a serious discussion, and it would be good if you would accept this to tell people in small towns how you got scared after one speech. Make it 1,000, 2000, people in small towns don't have rights. Please do not accept the proposal made. No considerations that you're in a hurry for dinner, a banquet, anything. [[GERB noise and lines]] , does not cancel the question of serious discussion where is the reasonable limit. You can see that we also propose to increase from 100 to 200 people, but 400 people is too limiting the democratic rights of citizens living in small towns. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You don't have to do this! You win these elections, why are you afraid to choose people?! Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u738	Colleagues, there has been a procedural proposal to which we have also heard the opposite opinion. I shall put to the vote the motion to put an end to the debate. They voted 102 MPs: for 69, against 30, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. In the manner of holding Mr. Popov. Now he's gonna thank me for mentioning the speed of my colleagues in the Vidin constituency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u739	Thank you. Madam President, I ask you to pay attention to Mr. Ivanov because he wants a procedure to end the debates before they start. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov was the first to speak. As he spoke, Mr. Ivanov wanted to end the debate and raise his hand for procedure. Please note to him that this procedure may take place after there are already debates and not before their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u740	We're starting a vote on specific assumptions. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Kiril Tsochev and a group, the committee does not support the proposal to make 100 250. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 38, against 13, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of Parliament................................................................................................... to be replaced by............................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 43, against 61, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for amendments to the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria They voted 120 MPs: for 71, against 47, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. First was Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, second was Mr. Veliv. You two figure out who the third one is. Mr. Popov as a younger retreat, Mr. Enchev will be third. We're listening to your first negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u741	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted negatively because, on such a serious matter, we could not actually have a debate. There was only one statement and then it hit the guillotine. I want to tell you that from over 3800 villages in Bulgaria, we are currently limiting the vote to at least 1000. Keep in mind that 400 people -- what you have voted on at the moment -- many of you are MPs from such areas. You know that the villages are constantly declining as a population at the moment. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In practice, at the moment you are denying the people of these villages to make their democratic choice and you expect the municipal mayor to appoint them accordingly. In this way you restrict democracy in at least 1000 villages in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u742	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Second negative vote "The People's Representative Borislav Veliev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am elected, as are other colleagues, from Montana County, representing Montana District. Our entire Northwest End is with an increasingly diminishing population. I think this is quite unfair to people not only from Northwestern Bulgaria, but also from other parts, so we voted unanimously. However little we are at the moment from the Reformation Block, but out of all parts of the Reformation Block, we were unanimous and voted against. It seems very unfair to me to people from smaller towns and especially from the Northwestern region.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u744	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. Third negative vote.. People's representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u745	I voted negatively because, honourable Members, you have allowed yourself to eliminate the debate. Then, with the decision we have just adopted, you discriminated against tens and thousands of Bulgarian citizens living in small towns. On the one hand, you introduce the electronic vote, which should increase and increase the activity of Bulgarian citizens. The preferential vote is introduced to one degree or another, which also, I believe, will increase the voting activity of the Bulgarian voters, and at the same time you do the opposite. Why are you doing this? I immediately answer to justify my negative vote. The local authority is yours. You want all the local power. Haven't you had enough?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Aren't you satisfied?! For this reason, I believe that the Bulgarian citizens in the next elections, whoever they are, in the small towns of 100, 200, 300, will have mayors appointed precisely by your ruling coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u746	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u747	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 200, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding numbering. Under § 201, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become the paragraph of the relevant numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u748	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 200 and 201 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 200 and 201 by importer have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u749	Under § 202, I am making a procedural motion to postpone the debate for tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u750	We vote on the proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're putting off the debate for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u751	Proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal. I am counting on my colleague Slavov or Mr. Dimitrov to withdraw the proposal. They're not in the room. I'll read it. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, a new paragraph is added with the following text: The Law on Income Taxes of Individuals systematically creates a new art. 22e with the following text: ?22e (1) The persons referred to in art. 242a, para. 1 letter of the Election Code, which exercised their selective right, shall benefit from a discount of 5 per cent of the tax payable on taxable income from the sum of the annual tax bases under art. 17. (2) In the conduct of two or more choices in one year, the rights referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be realised in any of the following years when elections are not held and cannot be cumulative. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u752	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 10, against 48, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u753	§ 203. Honourable President, in view of the possibility of a proposal to have a different effect in time on tomorrow, please also postpone § 203.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u754	We vote on the proposal. 90 MPs voted: 86, against 3, abstention 1. We postpone the examination of § 203 for tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u755	Dear Mr. President, in view of the debate yesterday regarding § 82, which concerns a change in art. 182, by creating a new para. 5, and the text of the importer was: "Al. 5. A proposal was made by colleague Yordan Tsonev to add a second sentence to the new para. 5, which we specified to be with the following content: "It is not an election campaign to perform religious rites and rituals. " - The debate was completed in a revoting phase. Please put to the vote this proposal for the second sentence in the subparagraph, then the proposal for the content of the whole new para. 5. [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u756	We're overreacting. We have a re-vote procedure. [[Reply of MP Mihail Mikov.]] We are revisiting a text supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u757	How are you going to reschedule yesterday's vote today?! [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u758	There are 86 MPs voting: 82, against 3, abstention 1. In re-voting § 82, it was accepted. [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u759	Dear Mr. Chairman, you have surpassed all boundaries of normal parliamentaryism. It doesn't bother me that the coworkers are right and in a hurry to get somewhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u760	Colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u761	Nothing, let them stand. I can do straight people talking. This shows what the National Assembly looks like. That's what it is. There's no point in getting dressed up. Dear Mr. Chairman, it is absurd to reword texts from yesterday. The revoting procedure is clearly written in the Rules and is done immediately after the vote. In fact, you are changing texts already adopted. And it's not so scary if they're sufficiently discussed. I am afraid that in this House the MPs of the majority do not understand at all what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u762	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u763	This is absurd! Please stop the meeting, and tomorrow, a fresh head. Get some sleep, discuss your texts, change those you have accepted, but can't change yesterday's text. Revoting is a procedure in which the revoting takes place immediately after the vote. One text can't have been accepted, one day passed, and the next day someone woke up, remembered and asked for a re-vote. There is no such procedure either in the Rules or in the Constitution. This is ridiculous! This is the third vote on a text adopted in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u764	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u765	Come in the manner of conducting first, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u766	Mr. Chairman, even before you announced a voting procedure, I asked for a procedure several times. First of all, because there was an incredible noise in the room, a huge part of the colleagues did not understand what it was about. You were obliged by the Rules of Procedure, since the voting procedure had not started, to immediately allow for a procedure. Since you did not hear what was happening, in fact the MPs, a large part of the 82 people present who voted, I am convinced that they did not understand at all what they were voting for. [[Heckling]] They didn't understand at all! From another point of view, Mr. Mikov is absolutely right, because some of us are still following what's going on in this room. Yesterday, this text was rejected in the first vote. After being rejected by this whole room, it was decided to consult and a group on this text was decided on something that had not been done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u767	Huh?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u768	B-B-B-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D-D- Don't tell me I wasn't here. I'm here all the time, and I know exactly what this is about! What happened in the end is unacceptable! Something that people don't accept at all, they don't want it to happen. You've corrupted the whole process of good tone and whatever it is, it doesn't honor you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u769	Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the third procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u770	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, not to join with reproaches to your conduct, because in the situation that has been described, my colleague Bajraktarov continues to escalate, the facts that I have interpreted from this tribune have not been properly interpreted. After voting on a proposal by MP Yordan Tsonev, his proposal, in this sense, which I read and after he asked for a re-voting to be made, in the request for a re-voting, he explicitly emphasized: colleagues, show understanding, support the substance. Gather together and specify the concepts. In fact, with this proposal, I have presented to you the result of the consultations in question and the search for the exact concept. I regret that Mr. Yordan Tsonev is not in the Chamber to make his own proposal. I will only take the following note: if Mr. Mikov was absent yesterday in this debate, Mr. Bayraktarov was obviously present at this debate, but he interprets it absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u771	I was in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u772	Colleague, I'm staying away from your position on this debate. It could be expressed both by your will and by your vote on this vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u773	Are there any other procedures in the manner of conduct? I won't. I'm adjourned today's session.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-27.u774	The next regular plenary session is tomorrow "9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
