ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, please be quiet in this Chamber! Mr. Mihov, please be quiet in the hall! [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Honourable Members, allow me to offer you a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly from 19 to 21 October 2016: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 11 October 2016. 2. Draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev, from 25 August 2016. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers are Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs, on 8 June 2016. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 30 June 2016. Adopted in first vote on 31 August 2016. 5. A bill for ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 15 September 2016. 6. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Academy. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 13 July 2016. 7. Second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. Adopted in the first vote, on 14 July 2016. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the adoption of a declaration under art. 9 § 1 of the Agreement. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 26 September 2016. 9. Projects for decisions amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The representatives are Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, on 9 December 2014; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, on 13 March 2015; Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs, on 20 March 2015; Velizar Enchev, on 7 April 2015; Volen Siderov on 8 April 2015; Velizar Enchev on 17 April 2015; Borislav Iglev on 20 November 2015; Velizar Enchev on 7 December 2015; Velizar Enchev, on 19 April 2016; Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Volen Siderov, on 21 September 2016; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, on 30 September 2016. 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importers are Velizar Enchev on 27 July 2016; Radan Kanev, Atanas Atanasov and Boris Stanimirov, on 11 October 2016; Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, on 11 October 2016; Grozdan Karadzhov, Petar Slavov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, on 13 October 2016; Filip Popov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, on 14 October 2016; Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, on 17 October 2016; Georgi Kadiev, on 17 October 2016; Velizar Enchev from the same date is the Draft; Lutvi Mestan from the same date is the Draft; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs from the same date; Nayden Zenogorski, Boris Yachev, Danailov and Dimitar Bajractarov, from the same date is the Law; Dimitar Delchev and Chetin on October 17th. We propose that this be the first point for Friday, 21 October 2016. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. Adopted in first vote on 8 September 2016. 12. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. 20 July 2016. Importer is the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, as of 19 July 2016. 13. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, please vote on the draft programme approved by today's Presidency Council, with the clarification that it is a draft for working at regular meetings of the National Assembly. 140 MPs voted: 131, against 2, abstention 7. The project for the work of our regular meeting today and not only today, but also for the period from 19 to 21 October 2016 has been adopted. In connection with the now voted draft on the work of the National Assembly in regular mode and yesterday's Decision repealing the Decision of 12 October 2016 on the work of the National Assembly, I propose that we vote on the annulment of the order to convene an extraordinary plenary session on 19 October 2016. I remind you that all outstanding items on the extraordinary agenda are included in the already voted weekly agenda of Parliament. The vote I am proposing now has also been approved by the Conference of Presidents. Please vote. Vote 137 MPs: 129 against 2, abstention 6. We won't have an emergency meeting today. The motion is accepted. Come on in for a procedure, please don't let it be in the way you're doing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a change in the items on the agenda of this week's meetings, namely point 11 "Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, to become point 8, and the remaining points of our weekly Programme to be rearranged. The reasons for this exchange are as follows. This is an extremely important and necessary bill that supports unemployed people. It is related to the integration of a special group of unemployed people. These changes will lead to easier access to the services of the labour bureaus and easier access to the labour market, increasing the effectiveness of the active policies of the state that it makes with regard to unemployed people. All these changes must be adopted, as they will also lead to a reduction of unemployment in Bulgaria, which, notice, in the last seven years marks the lowest level of 7.7%. This is a positive result of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u3	Thank you. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u4	Mr. Chairman, I'm making a counterproposal. There is no need to move items on the agenda. Moreover, there are no important changes in this Law except a few lobbying amendments that I will explain to you when the Bill enters for consideration. So there's no need to shift the schedule. The bills to be dealt with before this point are much, much more important to make a shift. I call on my colleagues not to support Mrs. Angelova's proposal because it is unmotivated and unsatisfied. PRESENTER BREAKITER Glavchev: Thank you, dear Mr. Bajraktarov. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 143 MPs: 114, against 15, abstentioned 14. The motion is accepted. Point 11 becomes point 8 and from point 8 onwards all points shall be renumbered. Message. Draft and draft decisions for the period from 12 October 2016 to 18 October 2016. On 12 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was adopted. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. On 13 October 2016 a Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Election Code with importers Grozdan Karadzhov, Petar Slavov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov was adopted. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 13 October 2016, a Draft Law for the ratification of a Guarantee, payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee) of 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to up to EUR 100 000 000, concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016. The importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 14 October 2016, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. The Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs are accompanying. On 14 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated only to the Committee on Health. On 14 October 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. The importer is Georgi Kadiev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, the Law on the Amendment of the Election Code has been adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Philip Popov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On October 17th, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code was adopted. Importers are Nayden Zelenogorski, Boris Yachev, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Bajraktarov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Chetin Kazak. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with an importer was adopted by the People's Representative Lutvi Mestan. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date, a Bill for Supplement to the Election Code was introduced. The representatives of the National Assembly are Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Antony Trenchev, Borislav Velikov and Nayden Zelenogorski. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code was adopted. Importers are Krasimir Velchev, Danail Kirilov, Alexander Nenkov, Georg Georgiev, Stanislav Ivanov and Valentin Nikolov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date there was a Bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code with importer the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the same date there was a Bill for amendment and supplement of the Election Code with importer Georgi Kadiev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 18 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Food Act was adopted. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Foods. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the leading one. On 18 October 2016, the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code entered into force. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The distribution's coming up. On 18 October 2016, a draft Law on Importing Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs was adopted. The bill is about to be distributed. On 17 October 2016, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 12 of 13 October 2016 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 13 of 2015. By its Decision the Constitutional Court ruled at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria and declared as unconstitutional art. 79, para. 2, p. 2 of the Criminal Code and paragraphs 35 and 36 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. We move to the first point of today's program at our regular meeting: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACTIS AND THE DANISH CARDS. The bill is number 602-01-57. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the President of the Commission Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u5	Thank you. Mr. Kiril Ananiev and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Deputy Minister of Finance, Head of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency, and Mrs. Svetla Genova, Director of the Directorate of Customs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u6	We are voting on the proposal for admission to the House of the said persons. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u7	♪ I can't believe As regards the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, No 602-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016. At a meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Mrs. Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, Mrs. Galya Dimitrova, Deputy Executive Director of the NRA, Mrs. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Customs, experts from the Office of Customs, representatives of the CNBC, the Institute of Graduated Expert Accountants; the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association; the Bulgarian Association of Tobacco Industry and other non-governmental and professional organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. The bill proposes the following changes: An adjustment is envisaged in the order for the recovery of the amounts under the State aid scheme on the special order for the reimbursement of the excise duty on purchased gas used in primary agricultural production, such as the amounts to be recovered for farmers, will be transferred by the Customs Agency to the State Fund of Agriculture. The obligation of persons to submit certificates of existence or absence of tax obligations and obligations for compulsory social security contributions to the customs administration is removed. This information will be received by the National Revenue Agency. A change in the ratio between the specific and proportional excise duties for cigarettes is proposed and the specific excise duty will be increased by BGN 70. BGN 101. for 1000 pieces, and at the same time the proportionate excise duty shall be amended in steps to reach the minimum levels of taxation for the European Union by 1 January 2018. A new framework shall be introduced in art. 90b, which provides that, in the case of distribution or sale of tobacco products without prior request, the identification of the means of transport used in the activity is to be provided within 7 days at the competent customs office. A change in art. 102a, which regulates the conditions and arrangements for the use of technical devices (own or used on other legal basis) for the purposes of control under the Law on excise duty and tax warehouses. With the change in art. 103 a legal opportunity shall be created in which, in the cases of Art. 103. 42 and 43 of the PPC search and seizure shall also be carried out by the customs authorities. With the change in art. 107 Customs laboratories are proposed to become the only unit competent to rule on samples taken for the control of excise goods and having the right to determine the indicators and other indications of importance for excise taxation. The administrative criminal provisions of the Law are also revised. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Accounting and the Law on Limiting Cash Payments. The Value Added Tax Act proposes the following changes: It is offered when using goods (including real estate) which are or would be fixed assets within the meaning of the Corporate Income Tax Act, both for independent economic activity and for supplies and activities outside the independent economic activity, registered persons should deduct a tax credit in proportion to the degree of use of the goods to carry out an independent economic activity. In relation to the new rules for proportional deduction, a system for adjusting the benefits initially, when acquiring the real estate, a tax credit, taking into account changes in subsequent years in the use of the goods or services for independent economic activity and for purposes other than that thereof, shall be provided for. An annual adjustment is proposed for each of the years during which there has been a change in their use, which would affect the amount of the tax credit. The period currently provided for in the VAT for the adjustment of the deductions for real estates is reserved for 20 years and for goods or services that would be capital goods.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Editorial changes to the intended limits for making adjustments are proposed in order to align them with the new annual and one-off adjustment regimes. With regard to the ECJ decision in Case C-209/14, an amendment to the criteria which determine the actual supply of goods under the terms of a financial leasing contract as the supply of goods is proposed. The VAT on the activities of non-personalised companies is arranged. The provision providing for the release of supplies of goods and the operation of services by organisations which are not traders setting their goals of political, trade union, religious, patriotic, philosophical, philanthropic or civic character shall be clarified. An opportunity shall be provided for the deduction of the established recovery tax in the case of the so-called accelerated recovery with the public claims required which occurred until the date of issue of the revision act or the act of detention or return. Amendments and additions to the provisions concerning the actions of heirs in the event of death of a VAT registered natural person are envisaged. It is also proposed to include in the turnover for compulsory registration under the Law the turnover realised by the transformer or by the alienator when it is not registered under the Law. The Corporate Income Tax Act proposes the following amendments: It is proposed that the declarations under the LCR template be submitted electronically with an electronic signature. In this regard, it is proposed to waive the discount provided for in the Law from the tax on electronic filing of the declaration. A change in the order for the correction of accounting and other errors is proposed, giving the right after the expiry of the statutory period for the submission of the annual tax return, to the submitter once by 30 September of the current year to make changes relating to the declared tax financial result and the corporate tax due for the previous year by submitting a new declaration. The Law on personal income tax proposes amendments to the current provision of art. 13, para. 1, t. 21, which provides that only prizes from entertainment machines within the meaning of the Gambling Act or under the legislation of another Member State and subject profits with negligible value from other games of chance shall be exempt from tax. A change is proposed in the Order of Art. 13, which will exempt students from tax awards (from Olympics and other similar competitions and competitions). A relief for free payments is introduced, allowing a tax relief of one percent of the income tax payable per year on a tax base, but not more than BGN 500 in cases where the unpaid payments made by the persons amount to 80 per cent or more than 80 per cent of the income subject to tax on the total annual tax base. Changes relating to the taxation of farmers are proposed. A change of art has been proposed. 29, para. 3 which removes a problem related to the taxation of farmers passing from taxation under art. 29a to taxation in general. The problem relates to cases where income was obtained in the previous tax year when the person was taxed in accordance with art. 29a but not reported as income for the same or previous years, in view of the rules of accounting legislation. According to the legislation in force, if the person subsequently transferred to taxation under the general order, it is possible that those incomes could remain untaxed, given the different principles for the formation of taxable income. Individuals who have received income under art. 38 from sources abroad, to declare them annually, not quarterly, as it has been so far. Changes related to the order of taxation of non-cash contributions in commercial companies as well as a change in how the tax declarations provided for in the Law are submitted when the annual declaration will only be submitted electronically for the income acquired after 1 January 2017. In this regard the discount provided for in the Law for persons who submit annual declarations until 31 March 2017 by electronic means is preserved to 1000 BGN. A single adjustment of the annual tax return shall be introduced at the initiative of the taxable person following the expiry of the legal deadline for the submission of the declaration. The possibility of submitting an annual tax return under art. 50 of the LDCL from the heirs of deceased persons. At present, there is no legal possibility to submit an annual tax return by the heirs of a deceased person and the establishment of the tax liabilities of the deceased is carried out only by revision. The mechanism in force is extremely complex for administration and makes it difficult for both taxable persons and the administration. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes amendments that specify the provisions relating to the determination of taxable persons for a property tax due to contradictory caselaw. Amendments to the provisions concerning the municipal waste charge shall also be proposed, such as the period for the entry into force of the amendments to art. 66 and 67 of the ZMDT is proposed to be 1 January 2018. The Accounting Act proposes changes that concern the storage of accounting information, the definition of the category of the groups of undertakings, and a definition of the The Law on limitation of cash payments proposes that the threshold for limiting cash payments in the country should be reduced by 10 000 BGN. 5000 BGN as a measure to limit the gray economy. The proposal is also consistent with the practice imposed in the Member States of the European Union, where the threshold for limiting payments in cash is in a range of EUR 2000 to 3000. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission and the representatives of the various organizations expressed principled support for the Bill. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results:.... for. 11 Members of the National Assembly, abstentions.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 602-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The bill is allocated to four other committees: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. There are no reports from all four committees. Apparently, they didn't get back together. An opinion from the importer? There won't be. I open the debates.. you have the floor for speech, honourable Members of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, the changes to the tax laws for 2017 as in the previous two years have been packaged in the Law on Amendment and Supplement "This year in the Law on excises and tax warehouses" a poor, vicious practice that continues. This year, we added a lack of discussion to the committees in which these so important tax laws should be dealt with. The amendment of the regulations must take place in accordance with the Law on Legislative Acts. Pretty soon, we have changed this Law, we have debated in this House in order for the legislation, the product that we are producing here to be good, effective, to impose less changes. Today it's a fact what we're looking at. I believe that the changes that are made in tax laws are neither cosmetic nor few nor insignificant to be served and made in this way. More so, in art. 28 of the Law on Legislative Acts, we adopted that laws which do not have an impact assessment would not be viewed by the competent authority. In this case there is a formal impact assessment applied, but it is an impact assessment for seven laws. I believe that this is a rude violation of the Law on Legislative Acts. Secondly, the frequent change of tax laws is not good. This leads to a lot of problems for citizens and, of course, for business. These changes, for example, according to the assessment of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, have led to the fact that the Bulgarian business uses 423 hours to get to tax payment, while for the same activity in neighbouring Romania, which we have been very comparing with in recent years, this time is only 159 hours. We are not going to compare ourselves to other European countries. The difference is huge. The changes in tax laws are part of the budget procedure. It is unacceptable for this to happen this way. One more thing, from the various parliamentary groups, from various MPs in parliament, proposals for amendments to tax laws have been tabled. Today is the time and place for these proposals to be considered also in this House, but this did not happen. This does not happen again in violation of the regulations, in violation of art. 75 of our Rules of Procedure, which requires that these proposals be dealt with no later than three weeks after they have been submitted. That's not a fact. Thirdly, in essence, the proposals made. Under the Law on excises and tax warehouses, we will not support the majority of the proposed changes, because they do not complement the Law on Unsolved Issues, but introduce administrative difficulties. Such are the texts, for example, as § 7, § 25, § 26, on which we will make the relevant proposals between first and second readings. With regard to the Value Added Tax Act, the amendments refer once again mainly to the non-recognition of a tax credit for assets which are not used for the activity or taxation of personal consumption. And in current legislation, there are rules in the Value Added Tax Act limiting the right to tax credit when using goods or services for personal use that align similar supplies of taxable. The proposed changes will only create numerous administrative difficulties and problems, create prerequisites for subjectiveism in tax control and the danger of litigation. The proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are mostly difficult and complex formulas for calculation, and when tax legislation is difficult to comply with, including because it is incomprehensible, more taxpayers will start ignoring it, of course. The reasons for the proposed amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are not synchronised with other tax laws or due to economic dynamics, but are due to the fact that previous amendments are not well thought out, made in haste, under pressure and with relevant formal analysis and impact assessments, of course. In principle, I welcome the efforts to limit the unlawful use of a tax credit, which is a very big problem. However, there is no analysis of the Ministry of Finance for a survey done, an analysis of the amount of these abuses, so we can say whether there is an effectiveness of the measures implemented........................................................................................ This had to be the subject of the impact assessment and financial analysis to accompany this Bill. The conclusion in the so-called formal impact assessment is unfounded that the changes will not increase the administrative burden........................................................................................ It is clear that the applied assessment is formal, we all may know and understand from business that at the moment there are meaningless tax checks running precisely in this direction, which for me will really end without a particularly clear effect, but this creates a huge administrative problem for both the administration and the business. The more complicated the rules become, the farther away from reality are the expectations of having greater tax revenues. Since there have been presented changes related to this desired from last year, called the weekend tax, I will pay attention to only one text, because there are others that are absurd to me. Article 78, para. 4 introduces an adjustment requirement for the use of a tax credit when the supplier's registration under this Law is terminated. Where will the business, the debtors have information that their supplier has been deregistered to correct their tax credit? This will be used, I guarantee you, for pressure and for racketeering from those who will not be well-intentioned. I see no point in the proposed change and we will make our proposals. With regard to the Law on Corporate Income Tax, under the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, and on the proposed changes for electronic declaration.. I understand the desire of revenue administrations, especially of the National Revenue Agency, to do so electronically. Indeed, the revenue agency is at a very good level in this regard, but those who are currently able to submit electronically deal with this, they are doing it. They're doing it, and not because of the discount they're getting, and which, by this law, we're canceling. However, the forceful imposition of such a declaration will cause some of the obliged persons to avoid declaring, because for a large part of them it may become impossible. I don't know if we've thought about the companies and the citizens who are in remote settlements where the Internet is not being maintained so well or not at all. What do we want to do with this change? Let's give more business to accounting firms, to companies that sell electronic signatures? I don't think that's the point. I believe that this proposal has not been thought through or simply has not come up with the time to propose it to be introduced. Unfunctioning will be for me the text offered with this funny discount - 1% discount from the tax, when you see, 80% of the expenses incurred are on a bank basis. First of all, there's no way the National Revenue Agency can control this. This will only happen on a declarative principle, there will be huge disputes. After all, what is the purpose here? Once again, we're going to focus on the cashless payments, you see, so we're going to fight the gray economy. I think there's a lot of other levers. It seems to me that here we are doing a service to the banks, which have recently, instead of dealing with their main business, to finance the business, to work with it, are profiting from precisely such fees and commissions for bank card service and payments between companies. This has become a very serious problem and we must by no means support it with our decisions. In the same spirit for me is the proposal for a change in the Law on limitation of payments in cash. Last year, 15 grand was proposed to be 5. It wasn't accepted. This year, it's been proposed from 10 to 5, to be what we've decided. Once again, the motives are, you see, that's how we're gonna fight the gray economy. Yes, it can be a lever to fight the gray economy when everything else is done. We don't see this being done. Yes, it is in European countries, but the differences between business and income in European countries and Bulgaria is still huge, the gap is huge. I can give an example with a person who gets rent income of about 450 BGN. In that case, all of this has to go by bank transfer, because for the year his income is over BGN 5 000. What's going on here? Once again, we pour into the bank mill to pay translation fees, withdrawal and use of funds that have entered the bank. I think it's really early. This has been done several times with legislation, hasn't worked. The effect was zero, and that's why it's changed. It seems that today you will vote on it, you will accept it, it is not important what the effect will be. We will not support these changes and we will make the relevant proposals between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm gonna start where the talker stopped. One of the serious problems that we see in this legislative package because, although it writes changes in the Law on excises and tax warehouses, we actually see that, in fact, with this bill, basic tax laws are being amended. This is indeed a legislative package. In terms of cash payments, I think we discussed it in detail last year, there was a proposal again coming from the NRA of 15 thousand, then to cut to 5 thousand. We argued quite clearly both in plenary and in committees that this is excessive and that it concerns a huge number of people. For example, if a person decides to buy the old most massively sold car, which is between 5 and 10,000. lv. For example, you have to go the whole procedure with a bank account, transfers through banks and so on. I mean, the way people get used to it, they can't go and pay off the seller, they can't make a contract with a notary certification and end the matter. Then we explicitly told the representatives of the NRA that this was excessive. Now I see that they, as they say, let's try again. I think we should stop him again. I think the $10,000 threshold we accepted last year is high enough and low enough. I mean, it's some reasonable balance for me, and I don't see why we have to keep bringing it down, and I don't see any more serious motives in that direction than the usual one, which already sounds clichéd, fighting the grey economy. It's the only way it doesn't work. The other very big problem that I see and which, with colleagues from the Civil Council of the Reformation bloc, we called a dead person. You know, unfortunately, the famous maxim that in life, two things are certain about death and taxes. If we accept these proposals from the Return Agency, it will appear that taxes are certain after death. What did they write? If a person dies, his heirs will submit a tax return on the income of the deceased during the year. What if they don't know them? I ask: how will the heirs of this person know, for example, how will they know, the person in question, who works in a free profession, issuing, say, from a cob receipts how much revenue he has received over the years and how many of them he has spent. Finally they find in the drawer 100 leva. And they think it's his property, but in the year he may have gotten $5,000. lv. and spent 4,900 of them. The five thousand must be declared precisely because if you declare a hundred, you will be in practice liable for a false declaration. I strongly suggest that we do not accept this tax deceased. There was even a very serious discussion in society. I think there were indications from the Ministry of Finance that they were willing to give up this thing. I think it's nice here to exert pressure and such extremely unreasonable things, so to call them not to be accepted. There are other unreasonable things in the VAT Act. For example, additional forced administrative measures are envisaged to seal an object. Not that there are currently few such measures and can stop a person's business for an established violation for 30 days, but now new grounds have been added. For example, if they discover that the remote connection to the NRA, which we know is important and must have it, does not function, can close the person's object for 30 days, plus the fine and penalty they will impose on him. I ask: if, for example, the connection does not work because there is a problem with the mobile operator, you know, this connection is carried out remotely through a mobile operator, then why would the person close the subject when he is not guilty of anything? The text is so written that it appears to be responsible. It's the same thing if they set up a cash gap. This means in every single second of the day a small business to write in the cash supply book about everything literally every minute. Not at the end of the day to write for example: I paid this and this supplier and therefore the cash supply at the end of the day is such as closing the cash register, and every second it will say: to this one I gave 5 leva, to this one I gave 8 leva. Like water, I don't know what, sandwiches. We turn people into pencils, I don't know what to call them. That is also extremely unreasonable. There are other things, but I'm not going in there anymore. We will also make proposals between the two readings. I suggest that we do not support these particularly problematic things that I see between the two readings being dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, for another year, all tax laws are presented to our attention in a common cluster, which does not allow for a detailed discussion law by law, and thus deprive colleagues of the possibility and their proposals for tax laws to come into consideration together with this package. What impresses this common bunch is that some of the things are written on the knee. They need to be revised very seriously between first and second readings and it will still work out as last year. The creation of a working group that will actually rewrite these proposals. I am also making a formal proposal, I think that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is similarly prepared to do this working group, to look at these things written on her knee, which some of the colleagues have already mentioned, to revise and our attention text on second reading to be able to discuss them and to see which of them really contribute to some development and which of them are simply the desire of the administrations who have been pursuing it for years and have now found an expression in these laws. It is no coincidence that the other four committees to which tax laws have been allocated have not considered them, as there is nothing there that will help either the development of the economy or accept things that are important in terms of fiscal decentralisation So in this way, I think the task force is the only solution we can make to give them a slightly more formal and complete look. I call on my fellow Members to refrain from voting on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u15	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u16	I'm closing the debate. [[National Representative Martin Dimitrov wants to speak.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Dimitrov! [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]] Here you go. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] He really wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u17	Mr. Chairman, I gave you a sign 10 minutes ago. I was expecting you to sign me up after the speakers. Mr. Chairman, please have the same attitude to all MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group they come from. My fellow Members, there are some disturbing questions. The first disturbing issue that we have to solve together, and this is a responsibility to the Bulgarian society, is the reduction of the free payments from BGN 10 to BGN 5 000. I mean, if you have to buy a car in the country, you have to go make a bank account. Both the buyer and the seller have to make a bank account so they can make the deal. If the deal goes hand in hand, it makes it attackable and problematic. Five thousand BGN is too low for Bulgaria, five thousand BGN is too low for trades in the village, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, there is a tendency to reduce and limit cash payments, but five thousand levs is excessive. That can't be accepted. I call on all of you to listen to me and when we vote on the bill between first and second readings to correct it. Let's leave the current regime for 10,000. lv. I don't have any cash payments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u18	Up to five thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u19	Because, as colleague Slavov said, this is the mass price of an old car in Bulgaria. Don't look at Sofia, don't look at the big cities. Let's keep it 10 grand. BGN, as it is now. Next, the idea of being able to seal off your object, if at some point your cash register has no connection to the IRS, is extremely disturbing. We must adopt legislation that will stimulate small and medium-sized businesses, and not be able to easily enter and seal your site in a month. So a business can be destroyed, it can be killed. Second, if there was a cash gap, they could still seal your object in a month. They're coming to lunch for a check, you described the cash register this morning. But when they come to lunch, she's different. So they can seal your subject. Tell me, colleagues from GERB, in this case: give me an example of a company whose object you cannot seal in this way. You can record anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u20	He's lobbying for...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u21	No, we want rules. We know each other very well and we know who's who in this parliament. We know very well, so let's not throw things at each other. But not to allow discrimination and terror by the tax administration on business. Finally, are we ready to submit all natural persons' declarations electronically? Are your voters ready, colleagues from GERB, colleagues from the Patriotic Front, ready the people of the village to submit declarations electronically?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u22	Enough of these people in the country!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u23	No, you have to think about them, too. You have to think about them, too. Such readiness will not even be available in 2018, which means that if we record that since 2018, all tax returns are submitted electronically, this will mean that older people who cannot do it, who do not have the Internet, do not know how it is done, cannot go to get a special code from the tax administration, will have to pay for this service. You're gonna have to pay to file a tax return. You're gonna have to find someone to pay him to file your tax return. It's unreasonable and excessive. Yes, to encourage electronic submission of declarations, this is the future, this is the right direction, but not to say that all the declarations of individuals since 2018 are submitted by bank transfer because we do not have such readiness and I do not know if we will soon have such readiness. Do not create conditions for people to start paying for such a service to look for companies to give them declarations. Finally, another sentence: if you accept the lower threshold for free payments of 5000 BGN. and it was like a fight against the gray economy. But the real effect is different. The real effect is in favor of the banks. For me this is naive lobbying in favor of the banks, if we want each payment above 5000 leva. to be on a bank path. Colleagues, these clarifications and adjustments, if adopted by the Bulgarian Parliament, can be corrected. I advise you together to correct them instead of allowing unnecessary burdens for both business and Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 602 01 47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016. They voted 130 MPs: 88, against 24, abstention 18. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to point two: PROJECT FOR A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN CANADA, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF ANOTHER COUNTRY. The representatives of the National Assembly are Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev on 25 August 2016. With the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we will be introduced by its President Petar Kanev. There is no report from the Commission on European Affairs and the control of European funds. They didn't get back together again. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u25	♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, No 654-02-75, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev on 25 August 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 7 September 2016 examined and discussed the draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. The following is referred to as the Agreement, No 654-02-75, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy: Diana Naydenova The draft decision was presented by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. A specific occasion for proposals The draft decision is the hearing held on 20 July in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the subject, as well as the letter of the President of the Commission on the sustainable development of the Hungarian Parliament, which focuses on the lack of analysis of the expected consequences of the Agreement. In this regard, the importers propose that the Council of Ministers should be entrusted by 1 October 2016 to prepare and submit to the National Assembly a report on the expected consequences for Bulgaria of the implementation of the Agreement, as well as the development of the national position on it to be agreed with the National Assembly. The importers expect an impact assessment sector by sector for Bulgaria, as Bulgaria in the negotiation process has made no exception to protect some of the public sectors. The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria are strongly opposed to the signing of this agreement and express a firm view against the entry into force of the Agreement before ratification by national parliaments. The President of the Commission Petar Kanev briefed the members of the Commission and those present by letter of the President of the Greek Parliament to the heads of the national parliaments of the European Union, informing the establishment of a Special Commission in the Greek Parliament on the content and procedures of transatlantic agreements. He also informed the attendees that on 7 July 2016 the representatives of Bulgaria and Romania supported the Agreement at the COREPER meeting. The representatives of Solidarna Bulgaria do not support the Agreement, given the small share of trade trade between Bulgaria and Canada; the unprotected interest of small and medium-sized businesses; the institutionalisation of the parallel judicial system of arbitration, which benefits multinational companies, etc. The National Assembly has been proposed to oblige the government to declare itself against the rapid procedure for adopting the Agreement by the European Commission. If it is postponed, Bulgaria should seek ways to remove public services from its scope. The representatives of KT Supporta and the CST strongly do not support the Agreement and consider it to be particularly risky for the Bulgarian economy. It must not be accepted before an analysis of the impact of its conclusion on the economy and sustainable development is made. Lists of access to the service market to be positive, not negative. This is a new approach to trade agreements that goes against citizens' interests. It requires the exclusion of the so-called ratchet clause where governments are not allowed to introduce new standards and requirements. The CST also sets a number of other conditions for changes in negotiating positions such as the inclusion of a section on labour standards and rights for the protection of employment, according to the rules of the International Labour Organisation (ILO); preserving the Member States' right to regulate services of public interest; ensuring the protection of the highest standards for the protection of the environment and of consumers; removing visa regime and others. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs declared support for the Agreement and commented that it has economic and geopolitical importance for our country. He also supported the proposal for a solution because the Bulgarian government has a position on the issue. The representative of the Ministry of Economy Diana Naydenova stressed that the negotiations on the Agreement took place between 2009 and 2014. What was agreed until 2014 remains in force and new amendments and additions have not been made. Debates are launched in the European Parliament in September, which should give consent to the signing. The European Union has many such agreements, the last of which is with Korea, which is also in a temporary implementation regime. The mechanism of temporary implementation is based on the Lisbon Treaty, because the common commercial policy is of supranational competence. In order not to delay the operation of the agreements reached, the temporary application shall always be made. The Agreement is believed to have a positive role on the Bulgarian economy. In the field of trade, trade with Canada in individual years exceeds 200 million. The US dollar and the trade in services exceeds 45 million. U.S. dollar. The concerns expressed about the agricultural sector have no basis. Preferred conditions have been achieved, which Bulgaria can benefit from. Public services are not subject to explicit arrangements. They are excluded from the Agreement. Bulgaria also excluded social, health and educational services from the scope. Bulgaria has explicitly listed its moratorium on shale gas production. In an explicit chapter there are texts which are related to labour and social standards for the protection of arrangements. As regards the investment mechanism and its effect on small and medium-sized enterprises, there should be no concern. Arbitration is not a new practice in the Bulgarian negotiations. There are arbitration clauses in over 60 contracts. The Agreement has achieved much better texts that parry the frivolous claims to our country. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, No 654-02-75, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova, please let us know the position of the Commission you are in charge of. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u27	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part No 654-02-75, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova, Petar Georgiev Kanev and Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev on 25 August 2016. At a regular meeting held on 28 September 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, submitted by Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev. The motivations of the importers to the draft decision were presented by the MP from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and Zhelyo Boychev. Deputy Minister of Economy Daniela Vezeva and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov presented up-to-date information on the expectations of implementation and the main discussion issues related to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the EU and Canada. The MPs were also aware of the results of the last discussion of the Agreement, held on 23 September this year at the Informal Meeting of Trade Ministers within the framework of the Foreign Affairs Council in Bratislava. At the meeting in Bratislava, member states expressed their positions on the agreement. Mostly highly appreciated and principled support for the Agreement has been given. An arrangement has been reached to convene an extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council on 18 October, which is expected to approve and adopt decisions on the signing and provisional application of the Agreement. The comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the EU and Canada is expected to promote and improve trade and economic relations, as well as deepen cooperation between Bulgaria and Canada, including ensuring high standards in the realization of trade relations not only in the field of trade in goods and services, but also in terms of investment, intellectual property, rules of origin and others. The agreement is of shared competence. The areas within the powers of national parliaments are the protection of investment, intellectual property and maritime transport. Rules and principles for the protection of investment are agreed, thus replacing all existing bilateral investment contracts of the Member States of the European Union. Bulgaria so far has no bilateral investment contract with Canada. In this regard, with the entry into force of the agreement, a double effect will be achieved, on the one hand the Bulgarian business will be able to benefit from a level of protection in Canada, which up until now it has not had, and on the other, Bulgaria will increase its attractiveness for Canadian investments by increasing the transparency and predictability of the regulatory environment in the country. As regards the settlement of investment disputes, an arrangement has been reached which provides for a permanent specialised arbitration court to settle disputes instead of the initially envisaged ad hoc arbitration system. The members of the arbitration panel will no longer be appointed by investors and the State involved in the dispute but will be designated in advance by the parties to the agreement. The European Union and Canada undertake to set up a multi-level permanent court of appeal to deal with cases relating to investment disputes. The schedule of internal procedures for signing and approving the SETA on behalf of Bulgaria is under discussion. The agreement is subject to ratification by the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, and Bulgaria continues to insist on finding a favourable solution to the visa issue with Canada. We expect an official statement from the Canadian side as soon as possible. During the discussion held by the Parliamentary Group of the BSP LB and the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, positions were expressed in support of the draft decision. The Parliamentary Group of GERB highlighted the lack of objectivity in the grounds for initiation and adoption by the National Assembly of the proposed draft decision. The draft decision is motivated on the basis of information provided on the Agreement at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism of 20 July this year, which, according to importers, does not provide the necessary analysis of the benefits and risks of signing the Agreement. It is clear, however, that on July 20th of this year the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee has heard only representatives of the Association of Solidarna Bulgaria and of the SSC and the MEP of BSP Georgi Pirinski, without the participation of the competent ministries and state institutions directly involved in the process of the forthcoming signing of the Agreement to answer the questions raised by the MPs. Until now, the importers of the Project for the Decision have not benefited from the provisions of art. Art. 91 and art. 110 PNS, which enable the National Assembly to present the necessary additional information and up-to-date analysis. The Ministry of Economy has expressed readiness to present a report on the expected effects of the Agreement. The Foreign Policy Committee is committed to organising another post-Council hearing on external issues scheduled for 18 October this year. On the basis of the information submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 5 votes for the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, No 654-02-75, submitted by Cornelia Nino, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev on 25 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. This is going to be an interesting debate. One Commission is for, the other is against. On behalf of the importer Mrs. Nino will have the opportunity to argue and present the proposal. I'm gonna have to ask you to read the draft decision. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We were very insistent to enter this item on the agenda because after only nine days of October 27 and 28 at the EU summit, Canada will sign this Agreement and the Bulgarian government has not yet expressed an official position on it. We argue that if this Agreement is signed, it will kill the Bulgarian economy, it will kill Bulgarian agriculture, it will take away Bulgaria's national sovereignty, it will affect labour rights, it will threaten the judicial disputes between investors and a state, and it will be another national betrayal of this government if it agrees to sign this Agreement. So far we have heard only one thing from Prime Minister Borisov. He boasted that visas for Canada would fall for Bulgarian citizens. A very low price for this national betrayal, colleagues! The visits of Bulgarian citizens in Canada are less than half a percent of all international trips of Bulgarians. The trade between Bulgaria and Canada is one tenth of the percentage of our exports. This is the price at which I will now explain what you will sell from Bulgaria. The effect of the EU-wide agreement is that its gross domestic product will grow by 0.02%, and in the long term. What's going to happen to that? The agreement establishes the following: a parallel judicial system of arbitration. This judicial system is placed above national jurisdiction, but only foreign investors can benefit from it. Our country, Bulgarian investors, Bulgarian producers do not have access to this judicial system only a foreign investor who can sue the Bulgarian state. Moreover, there will be no appeal for these decisions. Judges shall not be appointed public and shall not be independent. They're broadcast by the big investors. Give examples of what's going on. At the moment, for example, CEZ is suing the Bulgarian state for hundreds of millions of euros because it has not provided them with work and enough profits. Similar cases against Bulgaria are currently leading EVV and Energo-pro. If Bulgaria is convicted, it must pay 2 billion. Euros. This new judicial system, which creates the Agreement with Canada, institutionalizes this new economic order and every outside investor who feels wronged by the Bulgarian state because it does not earn enough, brings a claim in this judiciary, which is independent, the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian investors cannot benefit from it and the decision of this court is not appealed. What are we talking about? Foreign, foreign interests to ride the state and determine economic policy, to sue us for billions of euros, which are also drained by the Bulgarian people every day and then to pay them again! Secondly, it is mistaken to think that this will only apply to Canadian companies. The scope of the Agreement is enormous. It says that any foreign company that has an open branch in Canada can benefit from this Agreement. Companies from all over the world can benefit if they have registered an affiliate in Canada. Moreover, there is no obligation and responsibility in this Agreement for these investors. Not a single duty and responsibility! Only the rights to judge us and so on, I will now tell you what more rights they have. In the agreement of this liberalisation regime Bulgaria has not excluded social and utility services. Can you imagine that this regime, if adopted, will be subject to: health care, education, all social services? Germany, for example, has asked to exclude from this Agreement the management of its waters because it believes it is nationally important. The Bulgarian government has not asked for any public service to be excluded from education, health, social, concessions, waters. Everything will be subject to this decision from the outside. Once again betrayal of national interest. Three, very dangerous. Once liberalized in this way, the market of a service cannot return to the state's regulation. I give you an example with your example. Sofia Municipality wants to have a municipal cleaning company, but at the moment it is given a concession. Your government having signed this agreement, once something given to a concession, never before, because there is no term, it is forever, it will not be able to establish a municipal company if it is profitable for the municipality and its citizens. At the time of signing what is distributed and liberalized, the state will never be able to get it back in any form if it considers that these concessionaires are damaging it and it can do this job on its own. Let's go. It is intended to reduce unnecessary differences in regulations. What does that mean? If we decide, colleagues, here in this Parliament or any government, to impose some regulatory regime on any processes in Bulgaria that we believe are distorting free competition and market rules, we must first ask a special body that this Agreement creates, whether to do so. In this special body, do you think there's a who-know-who? The principals of general directorates in Brussels, Brussels officials set up this body and any national government and state if they want to adopt a decision to arrange for internal public relations that have violated principles of competition, of corruption, whatever you want them to do, must ask these officials whether to do it first, and if they do not allow them to do so. What is this besides betrayal of national interests? Why are you putting us apart from the big Merkels and so on, now and by some Brussels officials? We'll ask them what to regulate! Imagine that this Agreement came into force, signed on the 28th. Right now, the CDC is having doubts about a fuel cartel. We're gonna deal here, we're gonna have the Fuel Cartel Commission, because we have signatures and we're bringing it in. We will not be able to accept any measures for punishment, nor for regulations, nor for anything, until we ask the Brussels officials. They will, of course, tell us why, because in this cartel are their companies, not to mention them from the stands by name. When will they allow us to punish their companies because they break the rules in Bulgaria? Until the end of my speech, I will not stop repeating every sentence: national betrayal. Did you know, fellow Members, that Canada is a complainant to the World Trade Organisation against the European Union for the following: because of the ban on the use of hormones in meat and because of a ban on genetically modified organisms? Canada is suing the European Union for allowing Europe, and we Bulgarians, have allowed ourselves to ban genetically modified organisms in Bulgaria and the use of hormones in meat! And with the same Canada, we create this regime from which what follows? In this Agreement is not the so-called...................................................................................................... This is a fundamental rule in Europe, which says that in order to place a product on the market, it must be guaranteed safe. That's out of the question. Imagine what entry will be here of cheap genetically modified organisms and what this means for Bulgarian agriculture and agriculture! And at a time, I'm telling you, when Canada is suing us for allowing ourselves, you see, to forbid ourselves from eating GMOs. They will condemn us, and we give them the opportunity to bring this GMOs into Bulgaria because the bans are falling. They will tell us what to do in our own country. There is also a safeguard clause for Canadian agricultural goods and there is no safeguard clause for Bulgarian agricultural goods! We ask, we have questions to the government, to Boyko Borisov: is it true that with this Agreement the quota for imports of meat and milk from Canada is increasing to an extent that exceeds consumption in all of our country? What will happen to Bulgarian producers if we allow this? Is it true that European money is being paid at the moment............................ for reducing their milk production?....................................................................... to reduce their production of milk production?.............................................................................. Each reduced pound of milk, Europe pays us compensation for this job! So they buy us to ruin our economy to invade their goods, which are cheap, genetically modified, and we sign for this job, that is, you sign, you have no mechanism to counteract... [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because you agree and... From the time of the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u30	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u31	From the time of the group, please. I'm done with two more arguments why the government shouldn't do it. In this Agreement, Canada has laid down all provisions for the protection of its cultural and linguistic heritage and wealth. The Bulgarian government has not asked for and has not laid down any clause for the protection of Bulgarian identity, Bulgarian national spirit, cultural and historical heritage, except for one thing. We have reserved our audiovisual services, but we have passed on everything you can think of: books, history, Chitalishtes, opera, theater, everything! So it is not enough that you betray the economy and destroy the Bulgarian identity, Bulgarian language and Bulgarian culture! We are absolutely against this. You know, in Germany, people got on their feet. Belgium refuses to sign this Agreement, France and Spain are on their feet. There were protests in Bulgaria. You're nothing! There is not even a simple statement of the Bulgarian government. The Prime Minister is the only one standing out and yelling: "I will remove your visas with Canada! "You will remove the visas of 100 Bulgarians who are in Canada against the fact that you will betray your entire country, your entire economy, agriculture, cultural identity and throw us into the hands of monopolies that will end us! That's what you're doing. We have our alternative, except to criticize you. Today we have imported, yesterday, into the Ministry of Industry and we demand to see quickly, the Food Act in which we offer protection of Bulgarian production. It represents: each company with an annual turnover of more than 2 million. lv. to sell Bulgarian goods inside...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u32	Mrs. Ninova, let me ask you for the bill you're motivating!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u33	He's in a relationship.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u34	I don't agree, even more so... [[BSP LB]] That we're in a different mode right now. You're actually drawing from the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u35	My rules allow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u36	Yes, that's why I let you. But I'm asking you on the subject, or I'll cut you off! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u37	Two sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u38	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u39	These retail chains, even though they are foreign investors, and this Agreement gives them excessive working conditions in Bulgaria. We want to oblige them to sell 51% Bulgarian fruits and vegetables, 70% Bulgarian milk, 25% meat, 75% of Bulgarian drinks. If they do not, we provide for a penalty of 10 per cent of the annual turnover of the products of the group. Let me see you now are you Bulgarians or traitors again? [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u40	Period! Thank you. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u41	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to read the draft decision! We are not discussing whether we are for or against the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u42	That's what I was gonna do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u43	We are discussing whether today we will adopt the draft decision proposed by the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u44	That's what I was gonna do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u45	I would like to remind you of something very interesting about who is the national traitor, when have the negotiations on this Agreement ended in September 2014. How long has the forty-second parliament been working? From May 2013 to August 2014. Please! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u46	Thank you. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u47	On behalf of a parliamentary group! We have a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u48	That's true, and I understand from the gestures that you're very motivated. Declaration on behalf of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Attack" a statement will read Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u50	That was an announcement. Time should, however... Here you go. This is an interesting parliamentary primo. However, I will take up this time during which we are all currently committed to this Declaration, so about nine minutes and thirty seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u51	Before I read the declaration, I express my full support for the analysis made by Mrs Cornelia Ninova from this tribune, but unfortunately these arguments are not included in the draft decision. It sounds too toothless. You want Borisov's government to write a report. As it turns out, Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova has already written it. In the Decision there is no position against the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u52	Mrs. Tasheva, let me remind you: look at the Rules, the declaration must be on a subject other than the one we are debating right now!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u53	That's not true. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka"]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u54	Please! The declaration...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u55	Declaration by the State of Ataka versus the Comprehensive Trade and Investment Agreement between the European Union and Canada.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u56	How can that be?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u57	Ataka Party through its parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u58	Mrs. Tasheva, I'll take your word for it! Colleagues are absolutely right, and I told you: this is against the rules! On an item on the agenda that has been voted on, you have no right to have a declaration! So, if you would like to have a declaration on another subject on this subject, if you like, I will read it as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u59	Consider it a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u60	Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u61	The Ataka Party, through its parliamentary group, strongly objects to the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Yesterday "October 18th," in Luxembourg, the signing of the Agreement in trade ministers format was postponed because of the objections of a number of countries, including Belgium. Yesterday in Luxembourg was Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva. The announcement of her position did not even contain a mention of this Agreement. We do not know what position she expressed and where she obtained a mandate to express the will of the Bulgarian people on such an important problem, which literally flooded Europe with protests. The signature of any Bulgarian representative under this Agreement will therefore be illegal because it is due without a mandate from the National Assembly. Why? Because the comprehensive agreement between the EU and Canada is nothing more than an attempt by Western corporations registered in Canada to impose on Europe the dark-headed clauses of the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment. Both draft agreements were and continue to be negotiated and signed under the conditions of complete informational darkness. And it's not a coincidence. Those two agreements, the CTI and its Canadian version of the SETA, eliminate the self-government of national states by reducing their parliaments and governments into contractors of foreign corporate will. Moreover, they create a parallel judicial system which disavows the national judicial systems of the EU Member States. Here too, I must remind you that leading Bulgarian lawyers joined the European academic and legal community and appealed to the European Commission and the European Parliament not to accept transatlantic and trade agreements............................................................................. The mechanisms in question whether you will call them Investor-state discount settlement, or create a common European Union-wide investor arbitration that will solve problems instead of national courts, is all the same. This means de facto nullification of the judicial systems of the Member States that have signed it. What does this parallel justice system mean? This means that corporations will be able to take responsibility from countries for their missed profits. Here I quote a clause in the Agreement: "Even when the measures taken by the States are non-discriminatory, legal from the point of view of local legislation and aim, for example, to protect nature, public health or workers' rights, to renationalise railways, water supply, energy supply or health insurance systems. This, in turn, can result in governments being restrained from introducing regulatory mechanisms for fear of being judged. The investment judicial system provided for in this Agreement will encourage investors to circumvent well-established legal procedures in local courts, and this contrasts sharply with the traditional and prudent notion of international law, which requires individuals to run out of local ways of decision before addressing international courts. And while the negotiations on this agreement with the United States of America have so far been left aside, they are stuck because of the protests of the Member States and their negotiation is so far frozen, then the Agreement with Canada.................................................................................... is before approval on October 27 October at the European Union meeting of Canada. We therefore call on the government of Bulgaria not to sign this dark-headed Agreement, which will kill the democracy and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u62	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Before I give the floor to Mr. Bayraktarov, I still have to read you the draft decision so we can focus on what we are debating. Project! DECISION concerning the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit to the National Assembly a report on the expected consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria of the implementation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. 2. In order to protect the national interest, the Council of Ministers is obliged to agree with the National Assembly the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other. Please, this is the essence of the Decision Project and the focus of the debate, stick to it. Mr. Bayraktarov, come on in on the decision-making project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u63	Thank you, Mr President, for saving the time of the parliamentary group, because I was going to do exactly what you did just now, which is to read the draft decision. By the way, I will also make a proposal for editorial amendments to it. What is important to know, however, the Members of the National Assembly when we comment and discuss this Project for a decision tabled by our colleagues from the BSP. The first thing that is important to know, honourable Members, is that the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism held a serious hearing of MEPs, of civil organisations who demonstrated enviable competence on this issue and then the Commission united on an extremely important issue. This question was that on this topic there should not be a mixed political speech, as it is a matter concerning national priorities and here all political forces should have a common position to protect the interest of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian business and the general interest of the Bulgarian people. The decision adopted by the Committee on Economic Policy was adopted on my proposal. I thank my colleagues at GERB for their approach absolutely pragmatically, as it was rejected in the first vote. I want you to know this truth because I'm not convinced you've read the transcript. Such a proposal of a similar nature was tabled by colleagues from ABB. I supported both decisions because the two draft decisions were in the same direction. By the way, I have to say here that each of us could have tabled a similar draft decision, but we didn't exactly do it for that purpose, because now it would have been some amazing speech and every party would have pulled its own draft decision and said how much it is nationally responsible, which, I repeat, we do not need today. We do not need to have political quarrels with a matter that is really extremely important. There is another problem that perhaps Mrs Tasheva missed in her speech that in fact others have the opportunity by October 31st to solve for us. You know that this is the European Commission, which can trigger this Comprehensive Trade Agreement in advance, without being ratified by the relevant national parliaments, which is the first great danger, that is to put it into effect and start acting without us having the relevant information. And in fact, what Mr. President of the National Assembly read is that we, first of all, honourable Members, are assigning the government to produce a report containing important information for all of us, and this information purely economic and perhaps political, is: what will Bulgaria benefit from the ratification of this Comprehensive Agreement with Canada and what will not win? There is a really serious problem that the foreign trade balance and the foreign trade turnover between Bulgaria and Canada, I would say is negligible. He's somewhere, according to the latest data, forgive me, if it's not accurate, about 300 million. The dollar. I say, forgive me, because I haven't done... [[Heckling]] Three hundred, three hundred and fifty is not something against the background of the total trade turnover as significant, that is to say it is expressed in some zero whole, zero-one percent of what you are. That is where the question arises: if the Bulgarian National Assembly decides to ratify this Agreement, what should we ultimately do with it? I do not believe that against a charity, excuse the expression, to obtain visa-free right to travel to Canada is worth ratifying this Agreement. But these are my reasonings of the prima vista, without having a complete and complete picture, which we want to get from the government, and we should get. I therefore addressed colleagues from GERB in the Commission. I thank them again for their support because, I think, this is important for all of us, that is, this decision has passed thanks to a common position of all the representatives of the parliamentary groups in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I therefore ask you: let us not comment politically and as some merit of a certain political force today on this decision. The other thing that is important and about which I call you to unite and adopt this decision today is that we must, as the second point states, determine how this coordination between the government and the National Assembly will be obtained, because so written practically remains somehow undeveloped the subject of this coordination. Therefore, Mr President, as the decisions are adopted by one vote, I am proposing editorial amendments. In the first point, the number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u64	October 30th?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u65	I repeat, I repeat, I repeat, I repeat, I
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u66	31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u67	I'm saying the number..1..to be replaced by the number..31. You are already reading the entire text, which will adopt the following version: supposes the Council of Ministers to draw up and submit to the National Assembly by 31 October 2016........................................................................................... You understand that October 1st is long past, that is, this text and this proposal are becoming obsolete and impossible to implement. In point two of the Decision, in order to make it clear to you, colleagues, I will read it again: In order to protect the national interest, the Council of Ministers is obliged to agree with the National Assembly the position of the Republic of Bulgaria..................................................................................... Here you understand that this mechanism is not indicated how to coordinate what will, at any given time, create some conspiracy theories, secret arrangements...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u68	Interpretations...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u69	That is why I am explaining, Mr. Chairman, so that colleagues can really understand it, because not everyone is obliged to be in class with everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u70	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u71	In this direction, I propose that an editorial proposal, after the word of the Council of Ministers, should be added to the report on item one and its discussion at the National Assembly, should adopt a position of the Republic of Bulgaria. Did you get that? If not, I'll write it down and give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u72	After a discussion in the National Assembly to adopt a position of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement.................................................................................................. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u73	That's right, yes. I think this is the right thing to do, because on the basis of this Report and its discussion here in the National Assembly, we will already have the opportunity to come up with an objective position, which is right and which suits a management body, which is the highest management body in our Republic............................................................................. That is why I repeat to some colleagues who very often make one serious mistake in the media and everywhere. Bulgaria, colleagues, is not a parliamentary republic. Bulgaria, according to art. 1, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance. Let's know it, let's not make this mistake, because I often hear a lot of different colleagues admit it. I've admitted it myself sometimes, I admit it. [[Reply from BSP LB: "What's the difference? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u74	Mr. Bayraktarov, thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u75	It's a huge difference. The difference is it's a republic, not a parliamentary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u76	Mr. Bayraktarov, don't enter into a debate, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u77	If you want, I'll give you a free lecture, but these services are offered by Mrs. Dukova and I think she can do better.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u78	Mr. Bayraktarov, are you finished?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u79	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u80	Thank you. Please don't enter into a debate from the stands. I was going to give you an example of how you talk about content...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u81	Yes, but you should have made a remark to the honorable gentleman of the BSP. He's obviously interested in the subject of Angel Gajev's face, but that's not my problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u82	Please, you're done. [[(Noise and lines. (Laughter)]] Indeed, your speech was on the subject, and I thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stanimirov, you have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] You have a line? Mrs. Tasheva, come in for a line. Please, whoever has decided to have a line on time, because otherwise... [[Noise and lines from "Attacka."]] I look everywhere, dear Mr. Stanilov, and I see far away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u83	Yesterday, along with the news that the signing in trade ministers format is postponed for next week, Slovakia's trade minister Peter Ziga is currently chairing the European Council, said he hoped that by October 27th, when the meeting of the leaders of the European Union and Canada is scheduled, Belgium's objections will be allowed, or in any way satisfied, and the Trade Agreement with Canada will be signed. Therefore, I propose instead of the editorial amendment, which Mr. Bajraktarov proposed, it is the government to present a report, analysis by 31 October, to record October 30th is too late, they will eventually sign it. That's the editorial proposal I'm making.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u84	I got it, I got it. Second line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, to be honest, we have insisted that this debate take place another month of September, and therefore, if you are impressed, a date of October 1st has been recorded, but we are now aware that, unfortunately, we cannot in any way oppose the signing or influence it. [[Heckling]] I am saying about the signing that is coming at European Commission level. At least I do not pretend to be some overexpert in this direction, but at least this information was provided to us by MEPs, by civil organisations. On 28 September the same information was received in Brussels, in the European Parliament. By the way, I have to let you know that there were two huge protests in Brussels at the time, right in this direction, in Brussels, the capital of Belgium, in this direction, and we even have pictures. If you're interested, I can show them to you. Either way, this has been handed over to me as information, and I share this information, and you can check it in the stenogram. I'm just saving you time to read the transcript. I'm not sure I would support October 25th, but I'm not sure it's gonna be enough time to get this analysis we want and this report. That's why I proposed October 31st, so there wouldn't be any excuses after that that it wasn't enough time, that some minister had pre-set commitments abroad, and I don't know where, and it wasn't possible to stack that information, synchronize and so on. That is precisely why I proposed October 31st, and I suppose you will agree... Let us not give excuses. Let us give an opportunity to obtain an objective report and analysis, which then, as I have suggested in point. 2, to become a cause for this decision. That's my motive, and I believe you'll agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u86	Thank you. Mr. Stanimirov, it's time for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to adhere to the concrete solution that we are currently discussing, not to the common theme of the forthcoming agreement between the European Union and Canada. The decision proposed by colleagues has two parts: the first part requires the government to present us with a report on the effect and impact of this Agreement on the Bulgarian economy. It is about an Agreement, which has been negotiated for five long years and has ended in 2014, as Mrs. Grozdanova has already pointed out, and since then it has been two more years. All the questions that the importers have raised with the protection of today's proposal for a solution may be clear, we also hear them in the public domain from various organisations and countries, but as a republic with parliamentary governance, I believe that all mechanisms of parliamentary control and communication between Parliament and the ministers could be used for the entire period of time, and five years after that, in order to clarify these issues, not to be required in 12 to five, at the last moment some comprehensive report that would give with a magic wand answers to the really complex topics. I guess this isn't over. The reason may be that it is very convenient for someone to emotionally turn the subject into topics such as the betrayal of the people of the land, the foreign companies and so on, and a purely pragmatic commercial and economic issue to be brought into the sphere of emotions in an election situation which I think is wrong. I see in the presentation of the importers and in the report of the Economic Commission that there is really a conversation with MEPs, with expert organizations, with trade unions. But again, I do not see the role and position of the Bulgarian government, which ultimately defends the official Bulgarian position in these negotiations. That is why I believe that the draft decision in its first part does not make much sense, although the questions to which the answer is sought are quite clear and they must be answered. The second part of the decision is which obliges the government to agree with the National Assembly its position on the Agreement with Canada. The mechanism for this to happen is ratification, which the National Assembly is about to make. The government broadcast by the National Assembly has received a mandate of trust, and in these negotiations it expresses the official Bulgarian position. If we make him return to this room and check his watch before each round of negotiations with the partners of Bulgaria, it will only weaken his position and not strengthen it. And we are fully in our constitutional powers, if the government accidentally sign an agreement that does not meet the Bulgarian interest, just not ratify it afterwards. We do not need to weaken the Bulgarian position. In their motives, importers refer to the experience of the Hungarian Parliament, which would have the relevant objections to this Agreement and call on us to do as they do. Well yesterday Hungary was among the countries which, by decision of its government, supported the Agreement with Canada. There were countries that, in the course of the negotiations and in the course of the subsequent two years, had their objections to the substance in the European-Canadian Agreement. I personally have no information whether the Bulgarian side had such considerations on the substance. But I do know that, for example, Germany, Austria and Slovenia have already received satisfying answers and have withdrawn their objections, so at the moment the only country blocking the Agreement is Belgium, because of the decision of the Vatican Parliament. The topic of visas with Canada is also not insignificant. I fully agree with all those who have spoken and said that this cannot be the deal and cannot be the price of a comprehensive trade agreement, cannot be the fees for Canada. However, visas for Canada are an absolute and unattractive factor without which I think it is unthinkable for Bulgaria to sign and participate in this Agreement. I therefore allow myself to express my satisfaction that at yesterday's meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council Bulgaria has expressed a clear position that it will not sign the Agreement if there is no written commitment, written commitment of Canada, I repeat, for the lifting of visas. I call on you, as the supreme authority in a country with parliamentary governance, that we be very careful and that we really take care, until we have written visa waiver commitments, not to ratify this Agreement. Because in a phone call between two prime ministers, some arrangements can be made, but this cannot be a engaging, long-term political action in the country. We need written guarantees against which Bulgaria, if there are no other economic objections, may become part of this Agreement. But let us not have a purely commercial and economic conversation with populist and emotional categories, but indeed through parliamentary control, demand accurate and adequate information on the basis of which to possibly ratify the Agreement when it is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u88	And thank you, dear Mr. Stanimirov. First line Mr. Bojinov, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman! I am well aware of the zeal and strength of the honorary consul of Canada in Bulgaria, often named from the left and the right with a notion of.................with what power he worked to prepare the institutions to accept this Agreement, but with great curiosity and indignation I also saw a person who so openly, with such ease handles such dangerous things and draws them with some kind of visas for someone. My fellow Member, you, who speak from this tribune that someone thought of a five to 12, do you not realize that this Agreement is a bypass and opens the doors to the other Agreement, called a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement?! Have you not been in the hall smiling so cunningly when from this tribune years and months ago we asked Mrs. Kuneva did an analysis of the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, has an in-depth analysis been made? Don't you remember the questions to Minister Lukarski here about this? Do you not remember the promise that he will be made and reported?! Doesn't it bother you that all this has been passed and is going to sign this Agreement?! It was outrageous for me to see in the eyes a man who so easily betrayed national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u90	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Ilian Todorov from the parliamentary group of the party Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Stanimirov, I heard here talking about visas, and in fact the visas that are being pushed into the media space are just the cheese trapped in the mouse. Another question is why a number of Bulgarian governments did not solve the visa issue and why to this day Canadian citizens can safely travel to Bulgaria without visas, and when a Bulgarian citizen wants to go to Canada, he must have a visa. It's the same for the United States. It's the same for Australia. Please, let's not push the topic and make a change of horse for chicken for a change of visas to allow the transnational companies to do in Bulgaria and to rob it, to colonize us completely and completely because of some visas! This is simply a lie that is trying to enter the Bulgarian society: visas, because of being colonized even more! We at Ataka say: "No, thank you! " When we talk about visas, there is a foreign minister, Prime Minister, to put the subject in another way. It is not normal for years the citizens of Canada, I repeat, to enter without visas in Bulgaria and the Bulgarians should have visas. There's no equality. Do you understand what our so-called partners are, who now want to rob us with this proposal?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u92	Thank you. The third line is the People's Representative Philip Popov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Stanimirov, you know better than I that at the moment the situation is not only in Bulgaria, but in all Europe is another after Brexit. There are no analyses of what will happen to the European economy by signing this Agreement with CEFTA, then with America, which my colleague here rightly said that this second Agreement is a bypass because a number of US companies are already registered in Canada to benefit from this Agreement. There are no analyses of how this will affect Europe's economy as a whole. Nowhere in these agreements does there say anything about small and medium-sized businesses. You know that in Germany, for example, more than 51% of gross domestic product is made by such companies from small and medium-sized businesses. There, gross domestic product is over $200 trillion. How are these companies protected in these agreements? Because a colleague here mentioned that he went to Brussels, yes, we also went to Brussels with other colleagues, and these agreements were discussed there. I'll tell you that only lunches and dinners we didn't attend were given by big corporations. There was no small and medium-sized business anywhere. This is a clean sample of lobbying, and you know that here in Bulgaria, trade with influence is punishable and is pursued by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u94	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u95	Mr President, I thank my fellow Members for giving me the opportunity to repeat once again what I have clearly said: visas are neither a price nor a subject in the Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Visas are only a condition without which no conversation on the subject of an Agreement with Canada should exist. I made that clear, and now I'm repeating it. Regarding the very Agreement you are trying to enter into as a topic, I am not defending the EU Agreement with Canada. Moreover, I am not sure that when it comes time to ratify it, I myself will vote for it. All I'm saying is that the decision you propose to the National Assembly is unworkable and populist and has nothing to do with the Agreement itself. I do not know what negotiations have been conducted because they were conducted until 2014, when the Oresharski government was in power. I wasn't part of this negotiation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u96	From 2009 to 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u97	Yes, from 2009 until 2014. However, we do not hear arguments from these negotiations, but we hear the words as traitors, traitors and so on. I will repeat what I said in my main speech: the proposal you are making at the moment is populism, it does not decide anything and it does not benefit Bulgaria. When the time comes to ratify the Agreement as a National Assembly, we will say our word. It will be dependent on the country's commercial and economic interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u98	Thank you. Next statement "spokesperson Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Naturally, I support the draft decision of BSP LB, all the more so that exactly three months ago I proposed to the honourable National Assembly a draft declaration by the National Assembly on the Treaty on Trade and Economic Partnership between the European Union and Canada, a draft declaration which you unanimously rejected. If you had accepted this Declaration then, to a large extent today's debate would have been emptied of content in the good sense of the word. However, Belgium is now, more precisely yesterday, blocking the Agreement with Canada thanks to the province of Gdynia. As is often the case, since we have been a member of the European Union, Bulgarian national interests have been protected to a much greater extent not by the Bulgarian government, but by our partner countries. Let me remind you that in Boyko Borisov's words only a week ago he had negotiated a visa fall with Canada. It turned out, however, only a day later that the deal, which Mr. Prime Minister Borisov made on the phone with the Prime Minister of Canada, was on the familiar comic-porous principle of a hen horse or, more precisely, to use the classic phrase, the film was not Swedish, but Soviet. In other words, against Canadian visas, and notice, not for all Bulgarian citizens, we will open the Bulgarian market, and the Bulgarian judiciary will officially raise the white flag, as the Agreement with Canada in this form allows TTIP (TTIP), more precisely the Agreement with the United States of America or the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership to enter the European Union through the back entrance, i.e. Canada as an icebreaker breaks through the protection of the European Union, and in particular Bulgaria, after that the Agreement enters the TTIP. Let us now see the parameters of this Agreement with Canada, which the honourable Members before me spoke about. First of all, genetically modified organisms will enter Bulgaria unimpeded. If one of you thinks that if we block the GMOs from Canada, we will be able to have a final victory, you are deeply mistaken. The so-called private arbitration courts will immediately be called upon by the relevant transnational or multinational company and we will be condemned under the rapid procedure, as have already been condemned countries, such as Germany and the South African Republic. In this case, the company "Monsanto" which, if I am not mistaken, has already been German property for one month, will immediately condemn us in these private arbitration courts, provided that we sign this Agreement. As for shale gas, you on the left and on the right will immediately object that there is no danger at all, said the honourable Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, as the Bulgarian government under pressure from the public two years ago imposed a moratorium. Yes, we do, we have a moratorium imposed, but once we sign the Agreement with Canada and the moratorium ends up in private arbitration courts, we will immediately be convicted and forced to bring down the moratorium. With regard to the labour legislation against which part of the KT Agreement "Support" and the CNS protest for a reason, not to say "they are angry" I will only add one fact that should bother you. If we sign this Agreement in the labour law part, in the Bulgarian trade union market, where there are two trade unions and, unfortunately, I have to say, they are pro-government, all the more so that they are financed by the state, the terrible trade union standards of the United States of America will enter. There are no unions there, or if there are, they're just decorations. There are no unions in the United States of America. There is no protection of workers' rights, not to mention the rights of civil servants. In fact, this may be one of the most dangerous parts of the Agreement. As for the retail chains that Mrs Cornelia Ninova has been talking about in her speech, I would add only one thing: if we sign this Agreement, which, as I said, will bring through the back entrance of the United States of America, then the Yankees, one example I am giving, will offer to our retail chains, the more accurate verb is:.. will impose on our growth hormone chains, which the Europeans categorically reject, and some European countries at the legislative level do not accept this growth hormone. Finally, let me ask one such question: why is the Free Trade Treaty with Canada and the United States of America the most closely guarded secret of Brussels, Washington and Canada? Why? Because this agreement will depend on Europeans' incomes, their health, their education, will depend on Europeans' livelihoods. And ironically, with these two agreements: this with Canada, and this with the United States of America, only the major concern, the transnational companies and, I suppose, the US government, but not the MEPs, not the national parliaments, not the general public in the European Union are familiar with them. Finally, I will conclude with the following summary: with this Agreement, corporations and transnational companies want more power and will receive it. And if they get more power, honourable Members, they will immediately transform this power into money, into a lot of money. And with the money, they'll get new power. And so it closes the vicious circle of global capitalism, the liberal ideology that our national parliament appears to be neither capable nor willing to fight against. To finish with what I started with: thank God that at least the temporary province of Gdynia in Belgium blocked this agreement yesterday. If we expect this to happen, the European Parliament indeed has a lot to wait for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u100	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Next statement, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u101	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u102	The way you're leading it? Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Kuchukov. I'm curious to hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I think that we should follow the Bulgarian legislation and every statement by Mr. Enchev should end with: The buying and selling of the votes is a crime. So the use of the PR stands for the election of a candidate and for an election campaign, I think it's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u104	You expect me to be the voice to say it? [[Radio, laughter.]] I think of it as... [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am solidarity with Mr. Stanimirov's opinion that on the occasion of such a global, comprehensive agreement, as it is called, an agreement should be less spoken politically and more spoken in the interests of the state and its citizens. But at the same time I cannot agree and could not personally separate the discussion about the Project we are discussing and the discussion about the Agreement itself, the SETA itself. The position of our parliamentary group is clear and it has been mentioned here that we have already submitted a draft decision in July. For one reason or another, it wasn't inserted. Discussion is essential. I believe that it is even a bit late because what is in the public space are statements of individual MEPs, of the President of the Commission, and you all know that both SETA and TTTI are being held in the context of a very strange mystery, a very strict secrecy. In our view, the debate is absolutely mandatory and it must cover several points of view. First of all, we agree with the proposal that the government should make a thorough analysis of the benefits and expected effects for the Republic of Bulgaria of this Agreement. There is no need to go into details, but we still need to know what is Bulgaria's export burden to Canada and the opposite " Canada's" to Bulgaria. Does the Agreement itself present any threats to domestic production? Where? Is there a violation of labour rights and human rights, food safety, ecology? In this sense, after such a prepared analysis, the Prime Minister or the relevant representatives of the Council of Ministers should go to parliament and provide this analysis to the MPs. Thirdly, the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament must be insisted on imposing certain restrictions in areas which are not advantageous, especially in the area of public services. There's talk here. We believe that it is very early for the National Assembly to give a mandate to sign this Agreement before point two, which I said the hearing here to be carried out. With regard to visas. It is true that visa waiver is not adequate at the cost of concluding this agreement, but the question is what we have achieved even for these visas, which so much is being talked about. The Prime Minister has spoken to Mr. Trudeau and he promised him that somewhere in the middle of next year the visas for a certain category of people will be dropped, perhaps in January 2018, they will drop the visas for everyone, but they may not drop out, because there may be some technical difficulties, maybe by the end of 2018. This reminds me a little of the story: "Tati will buy you a bike, but another time." Moreover, it should be borne in mind that Bulgarian society is not indifferent to this Agreement. A very influential Bulgarian non-governmental organisation conducted an in-depth analysis saying: "The liberalisation of trade, cross-border investment and finance is the main objective. If, from the end of World War II to the beginning of the 1980s, trade treaties respect theoretically and to a large extent the interests of countries, especially catch-up parties, to conduct their own national strategy for sustainable development, it is already put first in the opening up of markets, including public activities or services that are not commercial until then. Practice has shown that this policy benefits stronger countries and more powerful corporations that suck out natural resources and the workforce of developing countries. In fact, a small number of large multinational companies are profitable, regardless of which country they come from, which absorb the economic benefits in their transnational offices. And the dissatisfaction remains the economic, social and environmental consequences for ordinary people. It is true that the negotiations on the SETA have started a long time ago and in common terms have ended, but there are a number of problems that we should not ignore a part of which I said. The other serious problem, it's about jurisdiction. That has been well-founded so far. And finally, you know he's the little brother of the GTTI. CTI has been withdrawn, or at least for now it is not being worked on, as there is a lot of resistance against it throughout the European Union. With the signing of SETA, we make a shortcut if I use the computer term to CTI, because every American company that has a subsidiary in Canada, or any Canadian company that has a subsidiary in the United States, can safely apply this Agreement to both goods and services, and corporations and the United States. That is to say, there is a failure to ignore the opinion of Europeans with regard to CTAs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u106	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. The next speech is the public representative Rumen Gechev, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As always and as colleagues have called on, let us return to the facts. Firstly, it is more than strange that the European Union has been focusing so many years on trade with Canada, which represents 1.8% of the European Union's foreign trade turnover. This statistic is clear and shows that we are talking about a minor share in the European Union's foreign economic relations with Canada and it confirms the firm conclusion of many colleagues who have spoken before me. Honourable Members, this is not at all an Agreement between the European Union and Canada, but it is a matter of fact an Agreement between the European Union, the United States and Canada. It has already been said that the Agreement with the United States and the European Union is being circumvented, which has been practically rejected for economic and political reasons by the peoples and member states of the European Union. So it is not at all about the negligible trade between Canada and the European Union, but it is about trade between the United States and the European Union. And what's the problem, fellow Members? The problem is this: 1. The United States has labour productivity, which is about 30% higher than the European Union. Therefore, this Agreement, pay attention, eliminates 98% of the customs restrictions in trade between the European Union, Canada and the United States, respectively American companies that are already re-registered in Canada to benefit from the Agreement. That is, after the signing and ratification of the Agreement there will be no customs protection of European producers, including Bulgarian producers, from American companies. 2. Note that currently the Bulgarian government has not implemented the Law and regulations and we do not have an analysis of the impact on the Bulgarian economy. However, honourable Members, such an impact must be analysed from the point of view of the impact on the European economy. As the effect on the Bulgarian economy will come through countries such as Germany, France, England, Greece, the main trading partners of Bulgaria, not from direct trade between Canada and Bulgaria, which is symbolic, therefore not signing this Agreement, we will protect the interest of both the European economy and the economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3.It is particularly important that the regulatory role of the European Commission is effectively eliminated, as priority is given to foreign corporations operating in Europe. Dear fellow lawyers, you know perfectly well that this Agreement allows US and Canadian corporations to sue European governments, but you did not say that European governments would not be able to sue US and Canadian corporations. In other words, there is a rule of law of corporations, of global business over the European Union and its political leadership, including the political leadership of Bulgaria. 4. There are two effects on the health of Europeans and on Europe's agriculture. This is the genetically modified foods that will come along with this Agreement. Let us tell colleagues who have not dealt with this issue: once genetically modified foods have been imported, especially in the development of plant farming, it means, honourable Members, that it cannot be used for planting and seed crops that use genetically modified crops for sowing. In other words, this means that every year European cereal producers will have to import genetically modified seeds, from the United States of America and Canada respectively, that is, Europe's growing plant will increasingly start to depend on American exports. That is exactly the main purpose of American exporters. 5. Not us leading scientists from around the world prove that genetically modified foods are extremely dangerous to people's health. They are dangerous to us, to our children and great-grandchildren, so we are morally obliged to stop this Agreement. Finally, I would like to say, since we are talking about a hidden Agreement on removing all customs barriers for American business in Europe, a Europe that is lags 30% on labour productivity from the United States of America, this is about: without any economic analysis, the Bulgarian government again offers us to salute and force us to vote and ratify an Agreement that is not in the interest of the European Union, which is not in the interest of the Bulgarian producers, which threatens the Bulgarian industry and Bulgarian agriculture, and most importantly threatens the health of Bulgarian citizens, our children and grandchildren. Therefore, we propose this draft solution. We are opposed to this factual agreement between the leading American corporations and the subordinate governance of the European Commission. From whom do we expect protection from Brussels and the European Union? Is it not clear the great international scandal that the former European Commission chief, Mr Barroso, is working where now? As her CEO. Which leading private financial institution? The Goldman Sachs caused a wave of discontent. And what do you expect from the European Commission, to which most of its employees serve the big business? We Bulgarian MPs are obliged to fulfil our obligation and to protect the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian citizens from the disastrous consequences that this servants' agreement may have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u108	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Before I give a break, just to inform you, honourable Members, that today we celebrate the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship. Just a month ago, the Bulgarian Parliament unanimously decided to announce the day when the Bulgarian Orthodox Church celebrates the most Bulgarian saint Ivan Rilski as well as the Day of Friendship between our two countries. Dear colleagues, rest until 12:00, then we will continue with the debates. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u109	Honourable Members, the time scheduled for rest is over. We continue in the order of the speakers: the first is the national representative from BSP left Bulgaria. You're after him, Mr. Anastasov, because then he's Mr. Zhelyo Boychev. We take turns in the groups, as you know, and then there's Mr. Antony Trenchev, then Mr. Georgi Bojinov. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal for a decision of the Bulgarian Socialist Party on the draft Agreement between the European Union and Canada is extremely important for the Republic of Bulgaria for two reasons. Firstly, because the Bulgarian economy by all parameters, all data and all research is the weakest economy in the European Union. The weakest economy as a total production volume, such as the specifics of the individual industries and the structure of the industries, such as the amount of added value and export opportunities. The weakest economy in the European Union! Two basic questions. The first question concerns the following: can the weakest economy in the European Union, through its country, sign, support and promote a free trade agreement? That's the principle question. Second: what is the trade policy of the Republic of Bulgaria, investment policy today and is there such a policy? The answer is clear: there is no Bulgaria trade policy, no priorities, no export-oriented production, no competitive industries. Can these issues, which we all, seem to me every literate Bulgarian citizen is aware of, need further reports on the assessment of the impact on this Agreement? The impact of this Agreement and any trade agreement that supports free trade, in which the State, respectively, the possibility through customs tariffs and restrictions to regulate and promote individual industries, is doomed in advance to failure. We have no reason to support free trade agreements. It doesn't matter if they're with Canada, South Africa, Turkey or... [[BSP LB.]] May I request an extension of the time for the BSP LB Parliamentary Group? I'm sorry. We have no interest in this, and it seems to me from this point of view that we need to form our positions. This isn't about Canada at all. Even for the Transatlantic Agreement. This is about a basic understanding of our economy. Do we need any forms of protectionism within the framework of the current European economic policy, because the opposite of the Trade Agreement is some reasonable form of protectionism? And I believe that in the near future, both the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, regardless of what principle it is drawn up, regardless of the ruling majority, we must have clarity on the protectionist measures for the Bulgarian economy if we want there to be production in Bulgaria and if we want to have employment in Bulgaria, if we want Bulgarian citizens to be fed, dressed and satisfied so that they can go to the vote, because otherwise they do not want to vote, whatever we do here with you. The second question is that no such trade agreement is abstract in space. It always concerns specific parameters and is not the same for individual countries in the European Union, so Bulgaria should look at it through the prism of its interest. Well, dear colleagues, 50 and over 50% of the investments in the mining specifically of non-ferrous metals in Bulgaria are of Canadian companies. Do you know what that means? Over 50% of the mining investment! This is not about trade and that these investments after signing this Agreement will go under another regime of governance, control and exploitation. And then the Bulgarian state will not be able to say anything about this. And Dundee Precious will continue to pierce the Eastern Rhodopes and the population there will not be able to buy cheese and cheese and wait for state aid and public procurement related to European investment and other funds. Is that state policy right now? This is the key issue and that is why our proposal is that Bulgaria should not sign this Agreement. We can't sign this Agreement. This means that we should be broke, that agriculture and all other forms in which, at the moment, free competition within the European Union somehow limits our options. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the obligation of the Bulgarian state. The obligation of the Bulgarian state is to protect the interests of its own citizens, of its own producers, of its own traders. Well, who's guarding that interest? And here I address my colleagues from the right: colleagues, you have an outstanding commitment to the Bulgarian business to be the right. You are not the right hand of the German Christian democracy, nor are you the right hand of the Republican Institute of the United States. You are the right hand of Bulgaria and if you have a claim to represent the interests of the producing layers and of the rich Bulgarians, we should not be dealing with this issue from the left. You were supposed to turn this tribune here today into a trench against the Agreement. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u111	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. The first line is the national representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Jablyanov, it was no accident in my speech that I asked not to politicize this extremely important topic. However, I am already starting to regret it, because I feel that you as a representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party not only do you not intend to protect the Bulgarian national interest, but you have the opposite to irritate all colleagues from different political formations so that this decision is not eventually adopted and then wave it to absolutely populist how, you see, you were the great defenders. We've explained to enough informed people what we're talking about. What's this about? And you, on the contrary, are trying to do, and I really am saying: I regret that I have already assisted this decision to enter the Chamber. Because it is obviously important for you to divide the parliament here today on the left and right, and not the Bulgarian nationally responsible representatives, who, in general, together, to protect the Bulgarian national interest and to support the correct decision of the Bulgarian government. Because tomorrow it will not matter what this government will be, if we today, as the National Assembly, do not make the right decision. Would it matter if it's left, right, foam, green, red and so on? And I hope you understand this thing very well. I therefore ask you: let us stop this rhetoric already, let us invite our fellow Members to enter the Chamber and move on to the vote on this draft decision, together with the proposed editorial amendments, because this is what is important and not to do another political propaganda that is definitely not useful today. Trust me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u113	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. There's no second line. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bayraktarov, my last motive for taking the word was to annoy anyone. But I'm not going to agree with one of your findings here. The signing of this Agreement, or its non-signature, is a political act. It cannot not be a political act, because it is about the distribution of huge resources, the creation of new inequalities in Europe, in which inequalities some companies will win, and other peoples will lose. Is there any of you here, the abstract Bulgarian nationalists, to explain to me which is the Bulgarian supranational company that will benefit from this Agreement? Because AEG will win, BASF will win, Nestle will win.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u115	Have you read this Agreement?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u116	Can you ask this guy to find out where we are anyway, or I'm sorry for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u117	Mr. Bayraktarov, please don't interrupt the speaker. Nobody was interrupting you. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u118	Thank you very much. So the agreement is political. The question is: can there be party positions on it? I guess that's what the gentleman who's leaving the room is trying to say. There may be party positions, that's not unacceptable. They can come from different perspectives, but lead to the same result. We agree with this and appeal to this, but such an Agreement is a complex focus of the interests of the producing layers, of the workers, of the poor, of the rich and so on and it must be addressed from a different point of view. That was my call. I guess we all understand his importance. I hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will be at the height of what lies ahead, because the interest of the German producers and the Bulgarian producers in this Agreement is not the same. And that is why it is political because it gives priority to one another, based on several clauses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. On behalf of a parliamentary group, the word has requested the public representative Dr. Dimitar Shishkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u120	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Today the church honors the Holy Reverend Ivan Rilski Miraclemaker the greatest Bulgarian saint, heavenly protector of the entire Bulgarian people and founder of the most magnificent monastery in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Medical Union will celebrate the Bulgarian Doctor's Day, which is traditionally celebrated on 19 October. The oldest word organization in Bulgaria "The Bulgarian Medical Union" was established on October 10th in 1901. The Bulgarian doctor's day was celebrated since 1996 when the Bulgarian Medical Union elected St. John Rilski as the patron of the medics. Let us honor and congratulate today all Bulgarian doctors for their dedicated work, for the thousands of lives saved, for the strength of the spirit and the desire to elevate the prestige of the doctor. To greet Bulgarian doctors who often have to be miracle workers. Another time, let's not forget them, and at noon, let's think about them, because anyone may have to go to a doctor. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u121	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. On behalf of the Presidency and on behalf of myself Happy professional holiday! Mr. Ivanov, regarding your calls and disturbance of order in the Chamber, five are the MPs from the Reformation Block, but the discussion continues. The word has the popular representative Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will not talk about the liberal philosophical production of free trade and its positive social effect. This debate has been under way for over 200 years, and neither here is the place nor now is the time to lead. I will not comment that the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, which is part of the debate at the moment, is the result of a request from the European Union, i.e. Bulgaria as part of it. I will focus more on the specific draft decision. The project, colleagues, is not bad at all, and the Agreement itself is not bad. On the contrary, our preliminary analysis of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms shows that it will have a more positive effect on the Bulgarian economy. For us, however, the DPS remains a mystery why the Council of Ministers all this time, which was available to us, I see that the draft decision was submitted on 25 August, did not make a forward move, namely to do an analysis on its own?! Colleagues, there are experts in the departments, we can even name them to you, which within a working group for a week or two will draw up a consolidated analysis. Why did the rulers leave this vacuum in which a total chaos occurred and allow myths and legends to flourish? Untruths are cast at the address of the strategic partners of Bulgaria, and are even questioned. Why, colleagues of the mandate, have you admitted and created this situation of chaos? We really don't get it. With one quick act, with one action that requires the Council of Ministers to simply do its job, all this vacuum created by you would be filled in committees, in plenary we would have made debates that are based on facts now, not on suggestion. Accordingly, the protests already on the streets would have been completely unnecessary. I'm not criticising the protesters at all. They have concerns that are not addressed by the executive, has not done their job. And much more important, colleagues. Now the Council of Ministers, if we had done this analysis, would have had much more self-esteem and with a mandate from the National Assembly to negotiate with Canada even on the topic of visas, which is very important. We know this is the first step towards visas for the United States. And not now to turn out that a neighbouring country has a firm position, and we quote the media that quoted last night's meeting: to prove that Bulgaria can be a little more flexible in the visa negotiations. That is true, colleagues, without a mandate from the National Assembly there can be no self-confidence and the respective negotiator. We really don't understand what the mandate carrier was worried about doing such an analysis and debate here in plenary, during all this time he had?! Are you worried that one of your coalition partners in the back, when we talk about the European Union, will get out of his real position, how he likes the European Union, but without the hymn, without the flag, without the institutions, without its policies and without its values? Is that what you're worried about? I don't want to talk about it anymore, I don't want to ideologize it in any way. We will support the decision because it is good. Unfortunately, colleagues, however, it is late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u123	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u124	I am not surprised that a liberal and essentially pro-Turkish party believes that this Agreement could benefit Bulgaria. Colleagues, there are a lot of speakers here. They speak wonderfully, focus on individual sectors....................................................................................................... That's not the point. One of the negotiators operating from the Atlantic Council of the United States Stuart Eisenstat said in 2013 that the purpose of this Agreement is geopolitical. It gives political power to corporations. Who here, independent left, right, liberal and so on, can support an agreement that gives political power to foreign corporations and go out to demagogize how it is useful for Bulgaria? Such an Agreement cannot be useful for Bulgaria. Yes, we will support this Project Solution, although as I have already said, it is too toothless. It doesn't stick a finger in the wound. As for the time needed by the executive to make a report, I read the report of the Foreign Commission to Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, I am already sure that the report has been prepared and it should be prepared. The agreement was drawn up in total darkness, but then I want to inform here some are deluded, it is published in 1598 pages. In Bulgarian, I have printed it. 498 pages are only the main and 1000 pages are anexes. There he is, here he is! On 7 July it came out in Bulgarian in the Official Journal. They had enough time to read it and form an opinion of Bulgaria. We are having this debate to tell the government that the opinion of the Republic of Bulgaria must be categorically negative. No other options of decision make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u126	Mrs. Tasheva, I only have one line for you. One call in the digital age, in the 21st century keep the Bulgarian forest, do not print everything on paper! It's electronic, especially when it comes to 1600 pages. Colleagues, I ask again: where is the Council of Ministers in this debate? Where is the Council of Ministers? Where's the government?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u127	Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u128	What does he do?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u129	It's working!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u130	Is there still a government?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. The next speaker is from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the point of our proposal was really to have this debate in plenary. Unfortunately, with their absence the representatives of the Council of Ministers shine, who, out of respect for the national representation and Bulgarian citizens today, should be here. I'll talk about the decision we've proposed. We really want this type of analysis of the impact assessment and the expected consequences on the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian citizens from the signing of this agreement. Colleagues spoke and gave numerous examples here. Indeed, this analysis should include both direct consequences and indirect consequences, as you know that our turnover is really not great, but has very indirect consequences. The emblematic example is in agriculture and food. I am setting an example only with the quota that the European Union has negotiated. It exceeds 1.2 times the consumption of beef throughout the European Union. You know very well that agriculture and their producers receive 20.. 30% more subsidies in North America, which puts our sector and European agriculture and raw materials production in a critical situation. We would therefore like every Bulgarian citizen to be aware, as this will come to everyone and everyone will be affected in one way or another. In addition to the financial side, the major issues posed by this agreement are where do the commitments and powers of the European Community end and where do the countries of power end? The big question is that we think national sovereignty is being taken away. Here was given an example by Cornelia Ninova about the unfortunate agreement to resolve trade disputes between foreign companies and member states, the negative list of public services Although the European Commission claims that this is a red line from which it has not retreated, it is not clear how and which services will be subject to full liberalisation from now on, and we as a country, our regulatory authorities will meet exceptional obstacles after entering this agreement. We wanted this debate at point two to form our national position. We wanted each parliamentary group to state their opinion on this agreement today, as BSP says it is against this agreement, in the way it is proposed with these clauses, it is very important for the Bulgarian citizens to hear the opinion of the other political parties, to make the account of who, for what and what it supports. We want very clearly the Bulgarian government to object to the provisional application of the Agreement. You know that one of the proposals is to start applying it until it is ratified by all 28 member states. We want and insist that our government does not stand up for this position and that we do not make this precedent. Let it enter into force after ratification of all Member States. The left will insist very clearly that all these commitments governing trade disputes between private companies and the state and governing very clearly public services and the protection of national producers and very clearly guaranteeing social and labour rights. Otherwise, it will seem that the Agreement serves only large transnational companies and there is nothing European in accepting it, to ratify it without clear consequences on each Member State and on every citizen of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u133	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u134	Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Boychev. The first thing you want is an analysis. The agreement will be signed in seven days, and you after rain, what kind of analysis do you want for the economic impact on the Bulgarian economy? We'll watch it in practice in the coming years. That's the first one. The second thing is, let's say two simple truths. The first is that the Agreement is the front door, and it is the rear entrance door. If one is not accepted, the other is accepted and thus through registered companies in Canada you can safely import whatever they want into the European Union. That's one by one. The second simple truth is that no one needs producers in the territory of the European Union - small producers, let alone in the territory of Bulgaria. This Agreement is made for a simple purpose... users need to buy, spend money and that money to go out. I don't know what you're spinning, sucking, spinning around your tail, sitting around explaining things with too many complicated expressions. These are the two simple truths, and whatever the colleagues here are talking about, the colleagues from the DPS have admitted it, this is a first step towards visas to the US, understand the back door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u135	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Second line? I won't. Mr. Boychev, the back doesn't go into group time, so you have 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alexandrov, we wanted the Bulgarian Parliament to join the many parliaments of the member states of the European Union who have a position on this Agreement. I believe that this is important and today's debate seems to be helping Bulgarian citizens to be informed in this direction. It is true that we will have to ratify this agreement here, but it was much better that this debate had taken place earlier. Nothing prevented the Council of Ministers from proposing and presenting to the National Assembly an analysis of the benefits and impacts of the Agreement on the Bulgarian economy, sector by sector, ultimately on Bulgarian consumers. You see, there are too many questions that hang with fear and everyone has reason to worry. I believe Europe is the best place for life. It is thanks to the fact that Europe has won exceptional standards both in healthcare and in labour and in social protection and in ecology. All this with the Agreement is called into question and can be denounced. You see the wave of discontent across Europe, and I am glad that the Bulgarian Parliament has nevertheless come to this decision. By the way, I would like to support Mr. Bajraktarov's proposals made as editing here, as they complement the draft decision and make it more consistent and will ultimately oblige the Council of Ministers to carry out its task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u137	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. I give the floor to the National Representative Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today I am truly ashamed of the National Assembly and of the debate we are having here. What is happening is titanic bullshit that is being said, honest lies and demonstrating only and only absolute ignorance of the text of the Agreement, which is on the agenda. I understand that 1800 pages we'll keep the trees, we won't print it, but that doesn't mean we don't have to read it anyway. There are chatters, there are fewer chatters, if you wish to know its content. And it's not bad before we make speeches, yet we have some basic knowledge of the matter we're going to be speaking about. The left-wing parties here, at all the hall on the left, such cheap populism, such frank nonsense you say that really: how are you not ashamed? You didn't scare us with the kemtrails, you didn't scare us with the GMOs, with bad Americans who haven't come to eat us for 30 years, just really, endless manipulations. It's a back door, but take a look at what it says. There's clearly written when a company can benefit from this Agreement. Just because you registered a mailbox in Canada doesn't give you the right to do anything. There are clear criteria for what it means to have an essential share of your production in Canada. You should be in Canada, I mean, the power plants...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u139	In Bulgarian, please, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u140	... Your headquarters are supposed to be in Canada, so you have to make a substantial part of the production in Canada. Those manipulations you're making, I really don't know who's buying it anymore. [[Reply from BSP LB: "You are in what grade are you in? "]] What grade am I in? By such nonsense...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u141	Please, don't engage with the speaker Professor Gechev, I'm addressing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u142	People who went bankrupt N number of banks are gonna ask me what grade I'm in?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u143	Get to the point, colleague Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u144	Basically, I'm talking about the number of mailboxes in the U.S. that are registered in Canada. There's no one to fall for that. The voters aren't as stupid as you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u145	Thank you. - What's the line? People's representative Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov, first line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u146	Dear colleague Trenchev, it is nice to really be educated, but there is still one factor in human development and it is called the human experience. And in a book, what you say is true, but only in a book. In fact, if you'd like, I can play you some videos to show you that you don't. By the way, this was often used practice in conducting public procurement and winning these public contracts right from mailboxes. Fresh case: Burgas City, a mailbox in London and we had a lot of fun showing how things work. So, again, you're right about a book, but not practically, and life experience points to something else entirely. So it's not exactly the way you imagine things, and I can, I repeat, if you want, show you some visual examples just for Canada, just for American companies registered as mailboxes in Canada, I can also show you how they work. I can remind you of another fresh case with a company that should have done the so-called check by KTB. But there, colleague Petar Slavov can give you more detailed information on how mailbox games work. So let's not interfere paper knowledge with practical experience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u147	Second line? No one wants a second line. A hole, Mr. Trenchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, last week during the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe we had meetings with the representatives of Canada and very specifically they showed us the texts because these concerns that you and you expressed, which we all had, raised them up and showed us clearly the texts: a commodity to what conditions it should meet so that it would be, enter under the hits of the Agreement and this is related to a large part of it being produced in Canada. I mean, you, if you have a product that's in the States, you can't go around it and go through Canada. What you say about public procurement suggests that European legislation and Canada's legislation will be violated. If you have information that is coming such a thing or that it is a practice, or that they systematically do such things, in the sense what exactly should we do? Here to isolate ourselves in Bulgaria, to raise fences all around the borders, to get out of the European Union and to have no trade with everyone. However, we must be able to rely on advanced democracies to comply with their own laws, and the European Union will do what is necessary to do so. And what have we made of them now, all of Europe or 90% of Europe, dumber than us? They don't know, and we know everything better than they do. Come on, a little more serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u149	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. To speak, the People's Representative Georgi Bojinov. You have seven seconds. You're giving up, I understand, for good reason. I give the floor to the MP Jemma Grozdanova. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In essence, on the draft decision submitted by the BSP group and not on the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... His first point is the dates, I understand that there are proposals and we will see if the House will accept them. On its second point, the BSP group is trying to dictate the agenda of the country's governance. Ladies and gentlemen on the left, you are not in a position to do so right now. When you win parliamentary elections, you form a parliamentary majority and a government, then you can afford it. [[Noise and lines from BSP.]] Regarding the reasons for the draft decision, these are weak motives, you very well know it, they are made quickly, during the summer vacation, are not expert. The expertise you are currently showing on the subject is much better than the motives of this Project for a decision and, unfortunately, they are signed by the Chairman of the BSP Group. On July 20th, the Economics Committee heard a lot of non-governmental organizations with a trendy position on the subject. It's not right. I would like to say that information from the executive power has not been requested by opposition MPs so far. Such information is not denied and will not be denied in the future. I would also like to say that the majority in Parliament, which is currently, supports the position of the Bulgarian government on the Agreement between the European Union and Canada, has supported it so far and will continue to support it in the future. Today we are voting on the draft decision of the BSP "There is a position and I will tell you it, not whether we support or not we support the signing of the Agreement between the European Union and Canada." Bulgaria took part yesterday in the meeting of the Council of the Bulgarian Foreign Affairs, the format of the Chamber of Commerce, in which it expressed its position and it is that it will not sign the Agreement until the visas for all Bulgarian citizens are dropped in 2017, without any other conditions. That means there won't be any signing until now. The Foreign Policy Committee is committed to giving you information about future talks with the Canadian country. We look forward to the official, written position of Canada on this issue. I invite the Economics Committee to do its expert work, mainly on the subject of the provisional implementation of the Agreement, which really does have a lot of unresolved issues. The Economic Committee has not invited anyone from the executive power so far, has not invited the Minister of Economy Lukarski to claim that no information has been given. As I told you, the Committee on Foreign Policy will monitor the position on the visa issue. That's what I can tell you. I urge the House not to support the draft decision submitted by the BSP and we will continue to follow the topic in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u152	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u153	I didn't hear your name mentioned, Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Here's a personal explanation. Yes, you certainly have the qualities of the Socialist Party's chairman, so this is a basis for your personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Grozdanova, it is not true that we did not ask for an executive position. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We have repeatedly put it as a proposal for a item on Parliament's agenda. We have repeatedly asked for a hearing of ministers and the Prime Minister on this subject. We've been denied. From here you have offended the civil society organizations of Bulgaria, saying that they are trendy. It's probably the ones you don't control, so you call them the Trendentious ones. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But I ask you: are the unions of Bulgaria trendy?! Are the employers' organizations of Bulgaria trendy?! Bulgarian companies that will be affected, Bulgarian workers who will be affected and represent the trade unions and their voice is not important to you?! Finally, the members of GERB from the Economic Commission supported this decision and voted in favour. Ask them why they did it. Your words have made it clear, however, only one thing and it confirms our thesis: visas against betrayal of national interest! That's what GERB is doing right now! [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u155	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? On the point of reference, the People's Representative Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor by procedure because you violated the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. This is no way to give the floor, because Mrs Cornelia Ninova said it was the party. This was before 1989 when the party was represented by only one person. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Look, only if someone is personally affected, then they're given the floor. How did you personally get offended in this case?! [[To the MP Cornelia Ninova.]] Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u157	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, there are two editorial proposals made. I'll put them to the vote first. The first is from the MP Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva, who, at the first point of the Decision, sentence one, proposes the deadline to be by October 25th. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote Mrs Tasheva's proposal that the deadline be until 25 October. Vote 128 MPs: 51, against 18, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We're moving on to the next editorial amendment. The proposal is from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov also in point 1 of the deadline to be until October 31st. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to be held until 31 October. Vote 131 MPs: 114, against 5, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov proposes at point two after agreeing to add the report on the topic. 1 and its discussion with the National Assembly to adopt a position of the Republic of Bulgaria. The text continues as submitted by the importers. Voting regime for the proposal by the MP Bajraktarov. They voted 124 MPs: 68 against 6, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Revoting "Stanislav Ivanov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u158	Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u159	I would like to rethink the proposal from the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov. With his lyrics, I introduced you. Vote 128 MPs: 65 against 5, abstention 58. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the overall draft decision, as editorial amendments have been adopted. I put the entire draft decision to the vote, along with the editorial amendments. Vote 138 MPs: 53, against 51, abstention 34. The proposal is not accepted, the draft decision is not accepted. It's a revoting request. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We want a re-vote. Political deviousness must have some limits! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u161	Please, no such terms from the National Assembly stands! Please, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Heckling]] I cannot put to the vote such a proposal, which is motivated in this way. [[Applause from GERB, lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Todorov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u162	I'm doing a re-voting procedure. The colleague Maggie Tasheva failed to vote. That's why I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u163	It's a rethink mode. I shall put the proposal to the vote again, together with the editorial amendments. They voted 141 MPs: 53, against 69, abstention 19. The proposal and the draft decision have not been adopted. Mrs. Yordanova's procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u164	Mr President, I ask you to allow for a vote on a proposal to extend the deadline for proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses to 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u165	I put to the vote the proposal for an extension between first and second readings to 14 days. Vote 120 MPs: 112 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving to the third point of our weekly program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADVANTAGES AND THE AGREEMENTS. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to its President. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted by Vili Mladenov Lilkov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. At its meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted by Willi Mladenov Lilkov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Petar Slavov, who pointed out that the current allowance for payment of overdue debts was fixed more than 20 years ago in a completely different economic and financial situation related to economic instability, high inflation and high basic interest rate of the Bulgarian National Bank. He noted that to date the social situation is different and the arrangement should be refined. In support of the bill Mr. Slavov gave examples from different European countries where the amount of legal interest for delay is 8 percentage points, expressing that the distinction of obligations as such to traders and obligations of individuals will meet public expectations for justice. People's representatives Christian Mitev, Daniel Kirilov and Peter Slavov took part in the discussion. Mr. Mitev expressed his support to the Bill and to the distinction made between the legal interest obligations owed by a trader and those owed by a natural person. He noted that reducing the amount of legal interest by two percentage points would not affect the business turnover in the country. Kirilov expressed reservations about the Bill and pointed out that opinions should be required from the Ministry of Finance, the Association of Banks in Bulgaria. He noted that, evidently from art. 2, p. 6 of the reasons set out in the draft Directive 2011/7/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the fight against late payment in commercial transactions, the amount of the legal interest for late payment is set out as the sum of the base rate and at least eight percentage points. Kirilov summarized the opinions received by the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of Cassation. As shown by the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the distinction of the amount of interest due for debtors and debtors is unfounded and arguments are made that in the world practice there is no case of a regulated maximum amount of legal interest. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 5 votes for the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, tabled by Willi Mladenov Lilkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 June 2016, proposed the adoption of a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted by Vili Mladenov Lilkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u167	Mr. Kirilov, thank you. Mr. Lilkov, come in on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will present the Bill briefly. It refers to the so-called delayed payment interest, which was determined more than 20 years ago by a decision of the Council of Ministers and it amounts to the base rate plus 10 percentage points. Since then, certain changes have occurred in the decisions of the Council of Ministers, but the amount of this interest for late payment has remained 10 percentage points plus the base rate. I would like to point out that it was accepted in terms where interest rates were generally two-digit. And then it was normal to accept this amount of 10 percentage points, but over the years changes have occurred and you know that at the moment the basic interest rate and interest that banks give are close to zero. In this sense, 10 percentage points plus the base interest rate as interest for late payment is converted into interest which, of a compensatory or compensation nature, already has the nature of penal interest. By the way, a directive was adopted in 2011 setting minimum interest rates for late payments in commercial transactions for the European Union countries at 8 percentage points. At the moment, the situation in the European Union is as follows: all countries, with the exception of Austria and Germany, have accepted 8 percentage points plus the base interest rate as interest for late payment. Only Bulgaria makes an exception. And another thing is that in Bulgaria alone the amount of this interest is determined by the Council of Ministers, while all other countries determine its size in a specific law. In this sense, we propose that the National Assembly pronounce and determine the amount of this interest. And one more thing. In six countries of the European Union, the interest for late payment in commercial transactions is specified for companies and citizens of Lithuania, Latvia, Germany and other countries have accepted a rate of interest for delayed payment 8 percentage points plus an ELP (main interest rate) for companies and for citizens of the European Union 4 or 5% plus the basic interest rate. That's the spirit of our proposal. I suggest you back him up. It will not affect the budget, on the contrary,q will benefit many people who, with late payments, enter into such relationships with companiesq as the "Topplofication", the "Energo." Mobile operators that pay a lot of salty interest is fun, especially when they look at pre-trial cases for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u169	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. I'm opening the debate. People's representative Petar Slavov. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will try to be brief and not repeat the things said by my colleague Lilkov and those contained in the report of the President of the Legal Commission. I would like to draw your attention to the giving of opinions to stakeholders and individuals, it seems to me that four months and more this bill stands on the website of the National Assembly. If an organisation wishes to give an opinion and take it into account, it should have done so within this time limit. Of course, I don't mind, if the Bill is supported, between readings to demand such opinions, but I still think it was nice, who really took an interest in this Bill, had already given his opinion. This, by the way, has been given the Ministry of Justice, and it is very positive, which makes me very happy. I see that they also share ours for the fact that the legal interest for fun cannot be of a sanctity nature, but must have a compensatory character. That is, what we currently have in Bulgaria is obviously not shared and is not approved by the Ministry of Justice. In general, their opinion is quite positive and supports the Bill. The Supreme Court of Cassation has pointed out some remarks which I think are removed between the readings, which are rather of the nature that can be resolved, are not of an insurmountable nature. I would like to focus on one more thing, and it is that this Bill is actually very timely and on this ill case of interest rates for Belene. We know very well that we are charged about 300,000 a day. lv. interest, which is formed on the basis of precisely the legal interest rate for lateness under the Bulgarian legislation. If we differentiate, in the way in which we propose the formation of this interest as such due by natural persons and due by traders, and place a reasonable maximum ceiling on this interest which does not exceed 8%, this means that interest payments will automatically be reduced by at least 60 thousand. lv. a day, which seems to me also a serious argument to think about supporting this bill. As we have heard from colleague Lilkov, at the moment in Bulgaria we have perhaps the highest interest rate for lateness throughout the European Union, or at least one of the highest, which is definitely not reasonable, and in the context of "Belene" is directly to the detriment of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? First line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, second line Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u172	Mr. Slavov, I have a question to ask you about the last part of your speech concerning interest rates for Belene. If what you're saying is true, why don't we make the interest zero and stop the interest rates for Belene? Is this possible by this logic that you expressed here? It is strange for me if the Court of Arbitration has awarded interest for fun to be under the Bulgarian Law on Interests for Fun, but if so, I ask you to argue, including with specific texts. So why reduce it to eight? Let's turn it down to zero!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go, Mr. Mitev. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague Slavov, I disagree with your statement because it was incomplete. I expected you to do a much deeper analysis of the situation with interest rates in other Member States of the European Union, mainly in terms of the amount of legal interest for individuals. For example, in Austria, the legal interest rate is 4%, in Germany is 5%, in Latvia is 6%, in Lithuania it is 5% to not continue to list. In general, relatively legal by looking at the traders, the main interest rate is set at 8%, with only 9.2 percentage points in Austria. I do not think that the main argument to support this decision is interest rates with regard to the arbitration decision for NPP. The main argument in practice is to ease the situation of Bulgarian citizens, who, unfortunately, pay the highest interest rate for delays in the whole of the European Union, interest which, instead of having a compensation and compensation nature, becomes an interest that has the form of a penalty and punishment. I call on you to support the proposed bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u175	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? No one wants a third line. For the doppelganger? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u176	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I will first respond to your line. You ask an interesting question, but I will answer you in the following sense: as we have pointed out, this bill is not a cooked target or a trendy case in Belene. I want you to understand this very clearly. It is cooked precisely for those, perhaps thousands and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, who have virtually become victims of various debt collection companies or the ERPs, or other similar utility companies, who have not been told for years that they have a claim against these people for a given obligation, and are currently serving them with an account of some obligation with a huge interest to it, for which they understand in two, three years after it has arisen. It is extremely incorrect in such a situation to charge them huge interest for late payment, all the more so that they did not know in practice and there was no duly claimed claim against them for the entire period. I draw attention to the fact that the Bill concerns the case of Belene, because it turned out that it was written in this Additional Agreement, as those lads signed, that the Bulgarian law is actually applicable and that it is the Bulgarian interest for late payment that applies. Specifically, because I see that you want to be useful too, I suggest that you share this idea with the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, because it is the Council of Ministers that will determine the exact amount of interest for late payment. That is, we say: we set a ceiling of not more than 8% plus the base rate, but the Council of Ministers retains the power to set the interest precisely. My only reservations, as I have pointed out to you, are that there is no reproach on the country that a targeted bill has been made, almost by the specific case, which I believe we will all agree on is not correct and we do not have that desire. As for my colleague Mitev's line, I take that as a valid one. In order to save time, I did not note that the Bill has a very detailed analysis of the situation in all European countries. We have done such a legislative study and you can see, colleagues, in every country of the European Union, how much interest is and how it is differentiated between individuals and between legal persons, so that anyone who has an interest can read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u177	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For a statement, Mr. Bayraktarov? [[People's representative Martin Dimitrov is approaching the stands.]] Mr. Dimitrov, there is a practice of rotation of the groups, so I give the floor to the MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will support this bill because it is useful. There's still something to touch on it as a matter of fact, but you know that it's done between first and second readings. I call on my fellow Members, and I will draw attention here: let us not confuse the case with this Bill, because it is more important here that it be of first use to citizens. For outrage that makes the CSIs, Mrs. Stoyanova, you know that, we have debated it not once or twice. I rely on your understanding to call on colleagues from the GERB group to support this Bill because we cannot constantly close our eyes to the outrage of a small group, not to say all because it will not be correct, from private judicial contractors, credit institutions and so on. In this direction, I also address my colleague Danail Kirilov, who knows that there is a small package of laws relating to changes to the Civil Procedure Code. In this case, the amendments to the Law on Obligations and Contracts are indeed a good step, concerning also the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, in particular the order procedure. Therefore, fellow Members, I appeal: let us support this bill. Many colleagues from GERB have come in, we have talked to you, you also meet with many voters, who also share these problems by Bulgarian citizens. There's nothing wrong with supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u179	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. First line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u180	Mr. Bajraktarov, I fully support you and I know the case of the so-called insubordinations of the CSIs, but I think we're making a mistake. We want to solve a problem that needs to be solved in general, because in addition to interest, we have fees, legal fees, fees of the CSI itself, that is, to solve one problem by creating another problem, namely by reducing this interest. It was surprising to me your position because you're looking at it unilaterally. You forget that in the end this interest rate is also applied to late payments to the state for taxes, for insurance, for health insurance where all Bulgarian citizens, companies are obliged to give what we in this House have voted because we have solidarity. I believe that such a reduction would rather give a signal to those who are not regular payers anyway to remain so. Once there was an argument that the interest rates of the banks are already too low and the interest we are talking about would be in a non-compliance............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With the reduction that is proposed here and for which I am really surprised that you support, we can solve a very small part of the case, but we will do much more harm. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u181	You're more than 30 seconds behind schedule. Thank you. Second line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, if I had known that Mrs. Stoyanova's line would be so comprehensive and beautiful, I would probably refrain from making a line. You specifically referred to the work of the Legal Commission and myself personally, so I begin in the order of the questions that you raised. First of all, legal interest has nothing to do with the CSIs. Economically speaking, yes, there is finally a total amount of debt in which we have several components, but the CSIs only collect the debt, including the part that is a penalty for delaying or defaulting the obligation in time. This part is due to the creditor. She's going to the creditor. The CSI doesn't get any of that money. Indeed, we will consider the draft amendments to and additions to the GPC, including for the ordering proceedings. I'm using the case to invite my colleagues. On several occasions, we have already been putting off the conference to discuss the Civil Procedure Code 2008, which we would like to base on the views of the courts, the doctrine of all interested. I would very much like to say a few words about connectivity with the debt and the arbitration agreement, but I don't have enough time, so I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Third line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Slavov, with regret I will have to inform you that the bill will not be adopted. If I have to use that magnificent song by Todor Kolev, God forgive him, she's gone and the left hand to the left, who really wanted to work to make a voice out of it, and there's no DPS at the center, which really wanted to work to get a voice out. From the point of view of Ms. Stoyanova and Mr. Danail Kirilov, whom I truly respect, I was under the impression that they simply did not want to hear from me. Colleague Kirilov, in a very precise and clear language, I explained that there is a large package of bills in the Legal Committee, in a figure of speech...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u185	Four!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u186	It's not four, because just the last two days six more came in, if you don't know. On October 17th, six more were imported. I mean, the numbers are growing. Everyone's in charge of the warrants and, if I have to pay attention, they're in charge of art. 417. Believe me, I am convinced that you too know that I know this matter very well, in order to give me a lecture about who should have received the interest, but here it was about the outrage of the CSIs, about the right of some institutions to identify with the state, as is art. 417 t. 2 of the GPC. That's what we're talking about! For the outrage, when the debtor doesn't even know he owes something, for those fabricated obligations that go on a conveyor! Thanks to our intervention through the Consumer Protection Commission, we have stopped and this vicious practice has been fined by 5 million yesterday. We know a lot of things! That's why you're not honored to talk about it this way. Ms. Stoyanova, I respect you and you, you know very well that when we have willpower, we achieve very good results and very good bills. A fresh example of the mortgage loan law, in short and more understandable to the general public. You know, we've managed to master a lot of banks, a lot of other participants in these trials, and we've achieved a good law. I don't share what you said for one simple reason. You have even touched on a large part of the question yourself. This is not only a problem in Bulgaria, it is already a European problem... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. The problem is the huge amount of money that sits in the banks and cannot be put into circulation for the simple reason that there is no one to ask for it anymore, and that is precisely because of these interest rates. Europe is already going in the direction of a reduction in interest rates, a reduction in penalty interest rates, so that money can get into circulation and carry money. You know this thing perfectly well as an economist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u187	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I would like to ask you to really respect your time, because I am getting reproaches from other MPs that I tolerate you in some way. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! There are topics that can and are the subject of debate - left, right, other debates. It's a subject of justice. She's neither left nor right. It's just about justice. And if you are now asked, colleagues, ask you Mr. Kirilov, Mrs. Stoyanova: why is the legal interest in Bulgaria the highest in the European Union and why the Bulgarian Parliament does not have sensitivity and leaves thousands of people, thousands of fates when they delay their accounts to mobile operators, to heating, to electricity distribution companies, to be charged the highest legal interest in the European Union, why do we not show elementary sensitivity and not be fair? The average for the European Union is basic interest plus 8%. Why impose the harshest conditions on us twice as high as interest on mortgage loans and about 30% higher interest than interest on consumer loans? That's more than a penalty! This is punishment, fellow Members! And since you do not have an honest answer, I ask you all to enter the Chamber first. Why is there only one person on the DPS? Why don't the other guys come? [[Noise and lines.]] The BSP colleagues who wanted an emergency meeting are six people! [[Relations and calls from BSP LB.]] Please enter the room. Of course, I ask all my colleagues and them to be in the Chamber. You're right! Let's all be together because when people come to us and tell us how after their late payment the interest rates, which charge them mobile operators, heat efficiency, ERPs, are murderous, this is Parliament's fault, because this interest is not in line with the current interest rates, honourable colleagues. Once it was logical to be a basic interest rate plus 10. But now it's not like that! Now this interest is excessively sanctioning and that is why I also refer to GERB: what will you say to the man who came to you with the huge payments they imposed on him for interest and who tells you that he cannot pay them and then came the private judicial contractor? What are you going to tell him that there was a bill and you didn't do what was necessary? I therefore suggest that we unite around this decision and do as they have done in almost the entire European Union, including for your citizens I call on you to do what Germany has done - 5% interest for citizens plus the basic interest rate - 8% for companies. And what almost all of them have done: Austria - 4% for citizens, the Baltic countries and so on. With regard to Belene. Yes, we are indirectly helping each other in terms of Belene, because, Mrs. Stoyanova, you asked why this is the case. The answer is as follows: if you have read the opinion of the lawyers, which is published on the website of the Ministry of Energy, it is said that the interest payments under It's their information. That's what we've read. We have no reason not to believe. I am convinced that you have also read, and you believe that this is the case, only that the bill has not been tabled because of the Belene. It was submitted long before the Arbitration Decision. It just so happens that a fair solution, a correct solution has positive commutations in terms of third issues, such as the issue of Belene. That wasn't the point, I'll give you that. The target was never this one, it just happened. For this reason, colleagues, I see that the main members of GERB are in the Chamber, congratulating you on the discipline. I sincerely congratulate you on your discipline and appeal to you to ask for your support in order to be fair to Bulgarian citizens, not to feel the shame of coming to us and asking us why they are sanctioned with much higher legal interest for fun than the entire European Union and we cannot tell them. I appeal to all of you to vote positively, and to you, Mr President, to consider whether this vote should not be scheduled for tomorrow morning when the House is more full, because I am concerned with such a responsible text, such a responsible bill being voted by a House which, unfortunately, is half or maybe more than half empty. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that if this bill is not adopted now it is a matter of time before the sense of justice of the NGOs leads to its adoption in one form or another. I therefore call on you for this honest decision and thank you to a colleague from the DPS for coming to this House, that is, there is already one fellow Member. I'm counting on you, colleague, and I was hoping more of your colleagues would be in the Chamber, but one is a good start. Sorry, there's two of you. Let us adopt the Bill at first reading, and between first and second, Mr. Kirilov, request opinions from everyone if you want, but it is a question of justice, a step of justice, which let us all walk together. Not because there's an election, by the way. Accept it at second reading after the elections, so it is clear that it has nothing to do with the elections. It is simply fair and just to show that, as a parliament, we can unite ourselves in good causes when we can help thousands of people and show that we are just and do the right thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u189	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, this may be the last time I will take a stand on this bill, because I wouldn't want it to look like we're arguing, but to be clear. Personally, there's one concern why he's in such a hurry. This is a fundamental issue which, as you have pointed out several times, the last rule has been operating for more than 20 years, that is, there is a legal stability. Mr. Petar Slavov of the second procedural insistence to look at, but very urgently to look at this issue, presented a wonderful study. A wonderful study is about an analysis of interest in European countries. This study also shows that this issue should not be resolved rashly, unambiguously. What bothers me in your statement, besides this pseudosocial attitude? That's how Mrs. Ninova could have said it, for example, and somehow, I don't know, it's strange to me, but I take it you've taken up such a defensive thesis. I am also concerned that the directive, which you are persistently claiming, explicitly states that legal interest cannot be less than 8%, than the 8 per cent point. Notice, our difference is currently at the rate of 20% non-compliance, that is, one fifth non-compliance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't be more thorough, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u191	You have the right to speak to her. Your parliamentary group has plenty of time. Second line? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u192	Colleague Dimitrov, I'll take the floor for a line. I think if we could talk a little more... There was no one from the DPS just now, now there are four people more, than the BSP also increased the number of people who want to work in the gym. [[(Reply from DPS: How many are yours? Does yours count?]] They're all here, all of them! Everyone! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and DPS.]] Sixteen people are here from the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u193	Mr. Bayraktarov, please don't enter into a conversation with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u194	Please, Mr. Chairman! But I'm not the one who comes in, but the people who don't want to work suddenly get paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u195	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u196	So warn them, please. When they see a nice orange tie, they start to get annoyed. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u197	You're an aesthetic, among other things, but let's get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u198	Here you are, fellow BSPs, to work. Colleague Dimitrov, my reply to you is that it was good to outline exactly this discrepancy on the directive, because many people really cannot understand that this is a very serious imbalance, a serious disproportion in setting interest rates, which should be corrected, and that is why I said that I would support this bill. Three minutes will give you an opportunity. Six more people are coming from BSP as well. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u199	Thank you. Third line? No one wants a third line. A hole, Mr. Martin Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Kirilov, I do not agree with all due respect to you that we are in a hurry. This bill, colleagues, was tabled on June 6th. Our goal is after the elections, before the end of the year is still to be adopted in order to enter into force from 1 January 2017, this is our goal - six months after its submission - that is, there can be no rush. In addition, I am inclined to agree on the time limit for proposals between first and second readings to be the maximum of three weeks, so that is out of the question for haste. Within this time limit, you, as Chair of the Legal Commission, will request opinions from whomever you choose. We will get acquainted with these opinions and invite the people. The directive you mention concerns traders and we distinguish between traders and individuals. We say: for traders to be an ALP plus 8, for individuals to be an ALP plus 4. In this case, the reduction in interest for individuals is 2,5. And another very important thing. Mr. Kirilov, you say that this measure is almost left-handed. Demec turns out that the high sanctioning interest is something right, and the reduction of interest, it has a compensatory and not a sanctioning effect, is left is not correct. It's a question of justice. Justice, Mr. Kirilov, is neither left nor right, it is justice. There are things that we, as Parliament, do not have to debate about. These are things that lead to the right measures and correct solutions for Bulgarian society. They're neither left nor right. They're not social, they're right. Dealing with injustice is not right and left. It's just dealing with injustice. Colleague Bajraktarov, I will seal the three minutes with hopes and the colleagues from BSP and DPS will come to the Chamber because I also rely on their votes, as this is a national policy. As in the first place, I rely on the votes of GERB and the Reformation bloc, because you, as right-wing people, as democrats, should be most sensitive to this topic. I am sure that both Mr. Bayraktarov and the Patriotic Front have come to complain about their personal fate and the unfair interest paid. I'm sure you said you'd think about it. I am sure that no one from GERB has returned these people and has told them that their demands are not correct. I'm asking you to unite. Let's show that it doesn't matter that there's an election. There are topics on which we vote together, we do not care about elections. This topic is more important than the election. She'll stay after the election and help hundreds of thousands of people. There are such topics that unite the Bulgarian Parliament and we all vote together simply because it is fair, it is fair. I ask for this support and I am ready the time limit for proposals between first and second readings to be maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u201	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Procedure supplied by the national representative Tasco Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u202	Dear Mr. President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, and I would like to draw your attention to something that I find unacceptable by the Members of the National Assembly. I understand if you, as chairman, call on the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, to take part in the work, or in any other way to activate the people, I could accept it. But when, here in the form of banter, games and such, petty attacks are being made that have nothing to do with parliamentaryism, I think you should interrupt them. Colleagues from the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front, as part of the government, should seek their problems in their coalition, governing, solving the problems they have, and the laws they put, not seeking support from the left, right, middle or elsewhere. [[Strong noise and lines from PF and RB. Knocking at banks from RB.]] This, in my opinion, is something that is normal in a coalition that is a coalition and manages to look for problems with them, not somewhere else. [[Noise and lines from PF and RB.]] You have no problems with the BSP Parliamentary Group. We will all support you in this bill. You have problems with GERB, solve these problems. Do not involve us in your coalition banter, games and markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u203	Mr. Ermenkov, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaker Martin Dimitrov turned very well with a request to the representatives of the left. In the same way, he also criticised his own parliamentary group for not being complete. I believe that you draw from the context of his overall statement the conclusions you have drawn as a violation of my behaviour as chair of today's sitting. That's my explanation. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u204	Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner in which you are being conducted.... to call on the MPs, especially from the BSP and from the DPS, no matter where they vacation, to appear in the Chamber so that we can hold a vote. [[Noise and lines.]] This is my procedure. On the other hand, you have taken the attitude, so I will not take the attitude, but I ask you to call.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u205	Thank you for reminding me. Always before voting through the Quaestors and through the intended call signal we address the Members of the National Assembly for participation in the voting procedure. Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman, and I address you. Now, look, there were some vacationing tosses here and so on, but they don't vacation. They are currently using to give stands or in the West Hall to hold meetings, which is unacceptable. Firstly, the Rules of Procedure cannot have meetings of groups, committees and so on when there is a sitting in plenary. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So, Mr. Chairman, if you please, put in order and get the people on the left who so badly wanted to work in this room so they can fulfill their duties. [[BSP LB]] Not to smile and talk nonsense. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u207	Mr. Ivanov, I will again take advantage of my right of explanation to remind you that the chairman is in charge of order in this House, and whether certain MPs or parliamentary groups are holding meetings, meetings or, as you said, giving stands is out of the way. I believe that the debate is correct and the Rules are respected. I give the floor to the next speaker, the public representative Radan Kanev for speech. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wish this very strict expert debate wouldn't sink into political attacks. There's nothing in common here about coalition relations or the election campaign. There are two extremely simple questions. And nothing else! The first principle question is: is it acceptable in 20 years of practice such an important obligation as the obligation which accumulates in the form of a legal interest on late payments to be determined, not by a legislative act, but by a legislative act? There is absolutely no other democratic and rule of law in the whole world in which to apply a ministerial decree or decree of the Council of Ministers to create a very important part of the obligations of citizens and businesses. This is simply legally unacceptable in the rule of law, no matter how many decades it has lasted. So to what Mr. Kirilov said, the opposite of legal stability is happening in Bulgaria, even though legal interest has not been changed. This is not a small problem at all, because it is defined at some huge levels of the usual interest rate, at the base rate. And currently at zero interest rates, it continues to stand at 10%. But let's get back to the principle question. A sub-legal act cannot determine such a significant obligation affecting virtually every citizen and every trading company in the country. So there's nothing to suggest delaying this decision. Once again, for many months there is this Bill, which is the fact that he is currently entering, the problem is why he didn't come in early? It's a separate matter. The second important and completely principled question: legal interest is compensation or penalty? This question also has an absolutely clear answer in the Bulgarian legislation, in the European directives and in the mind, in the sense of the Law. The legal interest is not a penalty, it is not a penalty for default, it is only compensation for the creditor for the delay in payment. It is the price of the money that the creditor loses due to the delay in payment. Here I would like to note that what we are proposing in this Bill is a very small reduction in legal interest in view of market conditions in today's world. In today's world, the price of money is almost zero, interest rates are almost zero, which means that compensation must be close to market interest. It must be much lower than what we offer. But, of course, we offer a reasonable smooth transition, not something radical that would undermine the interests of the fissure. And one last thing. Only one reason for resisting this Law can exist. This is the desire for the fisk, the treasury to punish the delayed payment, to punish the debtors, because between private persons the penalty interest may be agreed on. The one who can't negotiate penal interest,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u209	Mr. Kanev, would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u210	Yes, please extend. Thank you. The only person who is not entitled on an agreed path within the framework of the freedom of negotiation to determine penalty interest is the State. In other words, if we oppose this bill, this means that we want the Bulgarian state to punish not to receive compensation, but to punish the people who, due to financial difficulties, have delayed their payments to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u211	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, Mr. Chetin Kazak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u212	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The DPS Parliamentary Group will support the Bill confidently because we are well aware that this legal interest fixed in the Law on Obligations and Contracts 20 years ago is not some sacred cow, is not some mantra which cannot be put to another discussion 20 years after its determination, when public and economic conditions have changed radically when it has been seen that its use is abused and continues to be abused by various entities, it has been private, it has been private. This high legal interest was fixed 20 years ago at a time when we all remember that inflation was also high, and fluctuations in the market and the value of the national currency were tangible and unpredictable. It is precisely in order to in some way protect the interests of the creditors, and correctly said Mr. Kanev not as much as a penalty as compensation for the potential lost benefits of the delay in the payment of the debt, this relatively high legal interest was fixed. Now we are all witnesses, first of all, that there is no such inflation. Secondly, we are all witnesses that the interest on deposits is negligible. In any event, the losses or potential losses of creditors from the fact that there is a delay are not in the same amount as they were 20 years ago, and the fun does not lead to who knows what losses and lost benefits for creditors. On the other hand, we are witnessing that this high legal interest is being abused widely by various monopoly structures, whether privately or privately, in order to aggravate the situation of many of the Bulgarian citizens who are consumers of public services and who, for one reason or another, sometimes find themselves in delay with regard to the amounts due to certain monopoly structures or suppliers of public services. From this high legal interest, mostly ordinary citizens suffer, not so many companies, not so much trade relations between traders. We therefore find it quite right that the distinction proposed in the Law in respect of legal interest when it concerns relations between traders and when it concerns relations involving individuals. It is only natural that when individuals are involved, this legal interest should be lower when the natural person is a debtor. Of course, the texts need to be reconsidered once more. It must also be considered between first and second readings, I hope in the Legal Committee to see what the attitude will be, how will the issue of the situation be regulated, with the pending cases, since when this change in legal interest will be in force in order to avoid disputes afterwards, including in court. It will be clear from when it will begin and who will affect the change in the case of welded cases. I think that, between first and second readings, this issue is also worth being affected and settled in the Bill. Otherwise, as an idea, we support it and hope that all reasonable MPs, regardless of their color and political affiliation, will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u213	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. There are no other entries for speeches. Before I close the debate and give the floor for a procedure, is there anyone willing to replicate Mr. Kazak? I won't. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly to vote. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm offering you, Mr. Chairman, and I'm asking you to even exercise your powers under art. 69 of the Rules and schedule a vote for tomorrow morning. As we have heard from various parliamentary groups, there is a desire for support, but indeed some of the Members of the National Assembly are not here, I hope for good reasons. So it seems reasonable for the vote to be tomorrow morning when we are all in the Chamber. Including, I have spoken with various colleagues who are still, literally, currently consulting on this important bill and are still hesitant about some of them not having a clear position. Let us give them a few hours of literal reflection time and let us vote with a clear awareness that we are really voting on something important tomorrow morning in full composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u215	A reverse opinion? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u216	Dear colleagues, we are in a hurry to adopt this Law, so that we can go further and there is relief for people as quickly as possible? I don't see any reason to leave it until tomorrow, unless you're afraid that you're not here enough to be able to support your decisions. We are here twenty people, twenty people are sitting here more than half, unlike the rest of us who are importers, and we will support it unanimously. If there's anything else you're afraid of, it's your problem. But I suggest that we vote now, because there is no point in spreading some debates about a Law that is in the interests of the people and needs to be adopted more quickly. If anyone wants to vote against, it is already on his conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u217	Thank you. I propose a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, No 654-01-81, submitted by the National Representative Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs on 8 June 2016. I ask the Members of the National Assembly from the couloirs and from the rooms of the parliamentary groups to be so kind as to enter the Chamber in order to exercise their right to vote. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to take part in the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Georgiev, were you able to vote? They voted 110 MPs: 90, against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u218	Honourable Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR DELIVERING AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MILITARY POLICE, THE OBSERVER OF THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL. Please, Mr. Mihov, we'll start with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines. Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u220	Please, fellow Members, stay in the Chamber.. We have a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u221	I suggest that you support the procedure for admission into the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov and the Deputy Director of the Military Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u222	Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. Vote 78 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, secure presence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u223	I am reporting a report on a draft amendment and supplement to the Military Police Act, No 602 01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016, adopted at the first vote on 31 August 2016. The Law on the Police of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Police of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u224	Please report § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u225	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u226	Thank you. Statements? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the name of the Law as well as the text of the importer supported by the Commission for paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u227	Mr. Chairman, I'm taking advantage of the procedure in the manner of conduct. You're in a hurry, you're running through the lyrics. I have had a specific proposal, which is editorial, and I urge you to put the text with the editorial proposal I am making in § 2, art. 4, para. 4 the text shall be added to the structures referred to in para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 (which is editorial, but is correct spelling of the scope for the specific art. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-19.u228	Cancel the vote. We are voting on the editorial proposal made by our colleague from BSP for § 2. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting again on the name of the Law, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, together with the voting editorial proposal. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. As the meeting is over today, I announce that tomorrow we continue with a regular meeting on the respective agenda at 9.00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
