ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, according to the weekly programme adopted yesterday, as first item today, we should discuss: PROPOSAL FOR PROPOSALATION OF NATIONAL REFERENDUM, WITH QUESTIONS: "1." Do you support the election of the MPs by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? 2. Do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? 3. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums? 4. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? 5. Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a real vote in the last parliamentary elections? 6. Do you support the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? Importer "Initiative Committee'. Reports have been received from the committees to which I have allocated the proposal. The Committee on Legal Affairs will first hear its report, then the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Colleagues, the noise in the hall is unbecoming. I can't hear my own voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting the report, I ask for a procedure for admission for Mr. Toshko Hadjitodorov, member of the Initiative Committee, and Mrs. Victoria Vasileva, Commissioner of the Initiative Committee, for admission in Hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u3	Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 144 MPs: 121, against 13, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the guests to the Chamber. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u4	♪ I can't believe on a proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: 1. Do you support the election of the MPs by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? 2. Do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? 3. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums? 4. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? 5. Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a real vote in the last parliamentary elections? 6. Do you support the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds, No SG-516-00-21, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 8 February 2016, together with a protocol of 7 April 2016 to check the signature of citizens who support it, carried out by the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, received on 8 April 2016, by letter with No SG-516-00-21 from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works? At its meeting held on 11 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a proposal for the production of a national referendum, with entry No SG-516-00-21, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 8 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Toshko Hadjitodorov, member of the Initiative Committee, Mrs. Victoria Vasileva, Commissioner, and Mr. Dimitar Hristev, member of the legal team; Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Zlatko Todorov, Head of Minister Rumyana Bachvarova's Political Office, and Mr. Boyko Slavchev. The petition submitted in support of the initiative to produce a national referendum, No SG-516-00-21, on 8 February 2016 shall comply with the requirements of art. 45, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 48, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. From the submission of the report on the results of the verification of the signature of the National Citizens' Initiative by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, 672 488 pieces of verified records are established, of which 572 650 pieces are of citizens with correctly recorded data, 99 838 pieces are incorrect records. The verification carried out a comparison of the data on the persons from the subscription (names, CNN, permanent address) with their data contained in the population register. It is verified whether the persons in the subscription meet the legal requirements for participation in the same, to have electoral rights: to be Bulgarian citizens aged 18 years old, not to be placed under an incarceration and not to suffer punishment in prison (by data provided by the Directorate-General for Justice) and to appear only once in the signature. On behalf of the importer, a proposal for the production of a national referendum, No SG-516-00-21, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 8 February 2016, was presented by Mr. Toshko Hadjitodorov, who motivates each of the submitted issues, focusing on the advantages of the majority electoral system, presenting greater commitment of each MP to his constituents and regional current problems and peculiarities. With regard to the proposal to reduce the number of MPs for a simple National Assembly, the advantage of electing 120 MPs is highlighted, with the expectation of reducing them to favour the more effective exercise of legislative power in the country and increasing political responsibility. The introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums aims to increase the number of active citizens expressing their political will with the act of voting. Mr. Hadjitodorov expressed the opinion that the greater number of voters exercising their constitutional right to vote will strengthen the democratic legitimacy of referendums and election results, as well as the authority of the decisions taken. In support of the remote vote electronically when the elections were produced and the referendums were said to improve the possibility of voting, which would allow a wider range of voters to participate in the political process. The electronic vote will also reduce the cost of organising the elections, and will also facilitate and facilitate both the electoral process itself and the production of referendums and the processing and publicity of the results. Regarding the proposal to reduce the annual state subsidy to one lev for one real vote received, it was argued that the subsidy should be in line with the standard of living in Bulgaria and the reduction of the annual state subsidy would be reasonable, financially justified and appropriate to the budgetary and economic situation of the state. On the proposal made, the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Regional Directorates to be elected with a majority of majority in two rounds were made arguments for increasing confidence between law enforcement authorities and sovereigns. The Committee on Legal Affairs received a written opinion from the Ministry of Interior, presented by Mr. Zlatko Todorov, who pointed out that the Act in force for the Ministry of Interior, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, introduced the principle of competition beginning, which covers both the initial entry of state service and the taking of executive positions. He noted that there is no practice in the European Union that the executive positions in the law enforcement bodies should be taken up following a direct choice and that the conduct of a competition is aimed at establishing whether the employee concerned meets the specific conditions and has the necessary professional qualities for taking up the job in compliance with the principles of transparency, publicity, objectivity, equal opportunities in career development in his appointment. People's representatives Filip Popov, Dimitar Delchev, Yavor Haytov, Dimitar Lazarov, Emil Dimitrov, Danail Kirilov, Hamid Hamid, Chavdar Georgiev, Mithat Metin, Kiril Kalfin and Peter Slavov took part in the discussion. During the discussion the MPs Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Hamid Hamid and Mithat Metin expressed reservations regarding some of the issues raised and their constitutionality. People's representative Danail Kirilov noted that the issue of the possibility to vote remotely and electronically in the process of producing elections and referendums has already been the subject of discussion and has been laid down in the Rules of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code and made a procedural proposal for question No 4 to be subject to separate voting and to be rejected, as this issue has essentially been voted on and adopted by the National Assembly. The majority of the MPs supported the other issues of the Initiative Committee and welcomed the participation of civil society in the state power. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the procedural proposal for a separate vote on question No 4, which is to say: "Support to be able to vote remotely electronically when the elections and referendums are being produced and with 3 votes for the vote, 2 votes against the issue and 9 votes abstentioned, suggests to the National Assembly to reject question No 4 of the questions put by the Initiative Committee for the production of a national referendum. After a discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, 2 votes against the Council and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decision. Madam President, I will read the draft decision, asking to make three editorial proposals and point them out. After the decision to add the name of the Decision:.. for the production of a national The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government decided. According to the text of the draft resolution is the proposal for the production of a national referendum with questions. The second editorial proposal is to take place: to produce a national referendum with the following questions. The third editorial proposal is that there should be no numbering in the questions. Do you support the MPs to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? Do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums? Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a real vote in the last parliamentary elections? Do you support the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We will now hear the report of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs... [[(Noise and lines from BSP: "Procedure!") Procedure!]] Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs has not realized his behaviour does not surprise me, but, Madam President, I expected a reaction from you. I recall that a report of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been submitted to this House without a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I recall that our parliamentary group has asked for Daniel Kirilov's resignation as President of the Commission and I believe that this so important issue concerning the direct consultation of the citizens and the decision of the National Assembly cannot in any way be reported by Danail Kirilov today and that the whole discussion from now on should be conducted by him as President of the Commission. There are vice-presidents, so my request is that you order one of the vice-presidents to take the right place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u7	Dear Mr. Boychev, whenever a procedure is taken in the manner of conduct, the people's representative should indicate the norm of the Rules of Procedure which the President of the plenary has broken. As soon as you give me a specific norm of the Rules of Procedure [[Replication by National Representative Zhelyo Boychev]] which I violate by the fact that I allow the President of the Commission to read a report drawn up by the same Commission [[BSP LB]] Then I will respect your offer. Mrs. Marinska, you have an opportunity to introduce the Chamber to... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u8	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u9	I've announced Mrs. Marinska's word. Then you'll have a chance, Mr. Ermenkov. You will not miss a procedure in the manner of conduct, I am convinced. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u10	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The Committee on Legal Affairs, held yesterday, 11 May 2016, examined and discussed the proposal of the Initiative Committee for the production of a national referendum, No SG-516-00-21 of 8 February 2016. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Toshko Hadjitodorov and Mr. Filip Stanev, members of the Initiative Committee, and Mrs. Victoria Vasileva, Commissioner of the Initiative Committee. The reasons for the proposal to produce a national referendum, which contains six questions, were presented by Mr. Hadjitodorov. In its statement on question No 1 of the proposal to produce a national referendum related to the majority election of the MPs, it was expressed that by introducing the majority principle of election of MPs, prerequisites will be created for increasing the political commitment of the citizens, as well as for their active participation in the making of informed, democratic decisions. This will undoubtedly restore confidence in the legislative authority. In question No 2 concerning a reduction in the number of MPs from 240 to 120, importers of the proposal believe that it will increase the efficiency of the institution and improve the exercise of its main functions in the implementation of the legislative power. The reduction in the number of MPs will lead to the clear outline and strengthening of political responsibility. Regarding the issue of compulsory voting in elections and referendums, the number of active citizens expressing their political will with the act of voting will be increased. The mandatory vote will be one of the effective means to neutralize, reduce and eliminate the negative and vicious practices of the corporate, controlled and bought vote. On the question put under No 4 on the remote vote by electronic means, importers believe that this will enable a wider range of voters to participate in the political process, which will undoubtedly strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the results of elections and referendums, and hence the confidence of citizens in institutions. To a large extent, the electronic vote will also reduce the cost of organising elections. In the question of fixing the annual state subsidy for the financing of political parties and coalitions within one lev of a real vote received, importers state in their reasoning that this would be reasonable, financially justified and appropriate to the country's budgetary and economic situation. On question No 6, relating to the proposal that the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Authorities be elected with majority choice, it was indicated that this would allow citizens to appreciate the qualities and personal merits of the candidates, and this would naturally strengthen the relationship between the electoral and the respective chief in the Ministry of Interior system. The opinion received by the Ministry of Interior concerning question No 6 of the proposal of the Initiative Committee for the production of a national referendum is expressed that in the Member States of the European Union, there is no practice for the management positions in the law enforcement authorities to take place after a direct choice has been made. Under the current legislation, the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Governments are civil servants within the meaning of art. 142, para. 1, t. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Their appointment takes place after a competition, which is transparent, public and by taking into account the professional qualities of the qualification as well as experience. In the discussion of the proposal for the production of a national referendum took part the MPs: Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Mrs. Grozdan Karadzhov, Mrs. Snezana Dukova. In their speeches, the MPs expressed their opinion in favour of the proposal to produce a national referendum. In his speech Mr. Kiril Dobrev raised supplementary questions to the representatives of the Initiative Committee who presented the reasons for the proposal. On the basis of the reasons presented and after the subsequent vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 8 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not dispute what you have said about what is written in the Rules of Procedure, what is required by it and how it should be acted. However, in addition to the written rules, Madam President, the National Assembly must have a spirit of unwritten rules and mainly of adherence to moral requirements and values. And I don't understand why you're pretending to be someone who doesn't understand what this is about?! Why do you allow a person who has allowed himself to submit a document not accepted by the Commission, with the tendency that it almost doesn't exist, to continue leading this thing as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Moreover, I am convinced and further in the discussion you will see that even in the proposed solution he has, and when discussing things in the Commission, procedural decisions are also adopted which contradict the law relating to the requirements of referendums. I ask you very much to take the matter into consideration and let morality still reign over the written rules, which should also maintain this morality, but not always in some written rules can be described all nuances. Please do not allow the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs once again on the stand as such. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u13	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I am convinced that both you and the members of your parliamentary group accept the rule of law and the rule of law, which characterizes the Republic of Bulgaria under the Constitution. In order not to allow a legitimately elected president of a permanent committee of the parliamentary tribune, one of the following circumstances or hypotheses must be present. I'm sorry, but I have to read you the rules: Art. 22. (1) The President and Vice-Presidents of Standing Committees shall be released in advance: 1. on their application; 2. upon the proposal of more than half of the members of the committee, if they cannot carry out their duties in an objective manner for a period of 6 months or for the systematic exceeding of the rights or systematic failure to fulfil the obligations; 3. on a written proposal by the parliamentary group from whose quota they have been selected in the None of these circumstances are present, which is why they cannot respond to your call. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order will be presented to us by the President of the Commission Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a proposal for the production of a national referendum, No 516-00-21, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 8 February 2016, together with Protocol of 7 April 2016 to check the signature of citizens who support it, by the Directorate-General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works At a regular meeting held on 27 April 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a proposal for a national referendum, No 516-00-21, submitted by the Initiative Committee on 8 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: Toshko Hadjitodorov, member of the Initiative Committee, Victoria Vasileva, Commissioner of the Initiative Committee, and Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov. The proposal to produce a national referendum contains six issues which were presented by Toshko Hadjitodorov. In his exhibition, he stressed that on the first issue, the election of the MPs with a majority electoral system with an absolute majority of two tours will be created, an opportunity for the choice of personalities will be created, and at a runoff the voters will give support to the most worthy. In question No 2.. reduce the number of MPs to 120 explained that this would increase the quality in the activity of publicity. On question No 3, relating to the mandatory vote, the controlled vote will be limited. On issue 4 related to the electronic vote, he said that this would ease the vote of Bulgarians abroad and young people. Regarding Question No 5, relating to the reduction of the subsidy of the parties to one lev for a real vote, stated that the subsidy is high and growing over the years, does not comply with the standard and raises doubts about the use of the funds received for other purposes. Question 6 is related to the proposal that the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Authorities of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior be elected by a majority in two rounds. Toshko Hadjitodorov pointed out that holding the election in two rounds of police chiefs will increase their motivation and responsibility, and will also increase citizens' confidence in their activities. The representative of the Ministry of Interior, Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, took a position on this issue. 6 of the proposal to produce a national referendum by saying that the proposed version is contrary to the norms laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria "Art. 105, para. Art. 2, Art. 116, para. 1 and para. 2. Under the legislation in force, the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Administrations are appointed after a competition which is transparent and public by taking into account the professional qualities of the Ministry of Interior and the experience and results of the work. People's representatives Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Atanasov, Stefan Dedev and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the discussion. In their speeches, they supported the civic effort to hold a national referendum as an expression of democracy and pluralism, but also expressed reservations regarding some of the questions asked, linking them to their constitutional compliance, as well as to the ruling of the Grand National Assembly on issues concerning the state structure of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Now, according to the procedure, we have the opportunity to hear the presentation of the proposals of the Initiative Committee within 10 minutes. Which of the guests will take the attitude? Here you are, Mr. Hadjitodorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to thank the Chair of the Legal Commission for proposing that we enter the Chamber in order to hear our opinion as importers. You know perfectly well what the Initiative Committee is proposing. You know perfectly well that they are supported by nearly 700 thousand Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u17	Six hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u18	Okay, 600 signatures, which are...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u19	Please, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u20	He's following the whole law. But you know that there are many irregular signatures due to errors because of fear, because in the Bulgarian people, in most of the Bulgarians were afraid to put their data and is probably legitimate. Whatever. The referendum was supported for the first time. It has not been initiated by a political party and has not been initiated by the President, has not been initiated by MPs. This is the desire of many Bulgarian citizens. I guess I don't have to convince you and tell you again why we offer these points because you've read them. You've read the motives, you've heard the Commission's opinion. At the moment, this National Assembly is at an historic time. I don't know if you realize that? For the first time you can prove that you are a National Assembly, which means represented by the people... [[(Sighs: ……]] You can prove that you represent the people by complying with the request of the Bulgarian citizens and following the law that you have chosen. I just want to remind you, because yesterday I was shocked that a case arose in the Legal Committee that suggested that a matter be removed. Just to remind you that the National Assembly cannot remove questions initiated by citizens. He can edit them. The issue of e-voting was adopted here, but it can be asked in a referendum, as any law you have adopted, that Bulgarian citizens should be consulted. However, the issue of e-voting went through a referendum whose decisions are not valid because it did not bring together the necessary number of citizens to appear. According to the law that you have adopted, the same question can be asked immediately in a subsequent referendum. So at the moment you are really on a historic path to comply with the laws you have adopted, as you are the legislative authority in this country. If the legislative body in this country shows that it can violate the laws it adopts, it means that any Bulgarian citizen can do whatever he wants. This will be the example that you will give, or you will show sufficient reason and responsibility... political and civic, and you will follow the law. You will recall that, in fact, a representative of the people means representing the people. You are not above the people, you are not gods, you are not emperors! You must obey the law! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm not a MP, thank God. I would like to remind the members of the BSP, who now have a new chairman, that now is the time to show whether, both their colleagues from GERB and the Reformers, and the Patriotic Front, who I am convinced do not agree with many of our own, but have the courage to put them to the vote of the Bulgarian people and will comply with them, and will have the courage to try to convince Bulgarian citizens of their right, and we will also have this opportunity to convince the citizens of our right. I would like to remind the members of the BSP that in this case they could once or at least several times in their history not think about their own party, show that perhaps this congress, which they had a few days ago, will really be something new and vote, as the Bulgarian MP should vote. I miss the MPs from the DPS and DST, who have long in the eyes of the Bulgarian society have lost the image of the party - Bulgarian, but rather corporate organization. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I'm not an MP, and I can speak to a certain extent as I please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u21	However, the rules of the Rules of Procedure in plenary must be observed. A good tone in plenary is mandatory.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u22	Okay. I accept the remark. I apologize if my tone wasn't good, but I definitely said something that you all know people think. So, gentlemen and ladies MPs, either go into history as the first National Assembly, which has taken into account and really heard the people's opinion, or confirm the opinion of the negative that I will not say what it is so as not to violate the Rules that the Bulgarians have for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u23	Thank you. Colleagues, the debate is open. Please, the MPs who wish to take part in it, to... Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Hadjitodorov! I would like to express the position of the GERB Parliamentary Group. We will support the submitted signature with the six issues and will not participate in the debate because we believe that during all these periods of discussions in the committees, everything has been decided. Colleagues, let us focus on our parliamentary activities and let us reduce the emotional tension that may arise from this parliamentary tribune. GERB's parliamentary group will not take advantage of the time for debate. We have given our position in the Commission and in all the committees in which our MPs participate, but the position of the GERB Parliamentary Group will be to support the six issues that have been tabled by the Initiative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u25	Are there any lines to Mr. Tsvetanov? I won't. Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Hadjitodorov! We're looking at a very interesting case here today. He deserves our attention because he has repeatedly exceeded the goals of a simple consultation with the people. The reaction aims to outline the status quo and therefore the community, which is its alternative. I would also say after Mr. Hadjitodorov's statement that this is a positive provocation to the National Assembly and to all institutions. Time will show whether this referendum is a driving force for something else, for a new project we will not discuss here today. I call on the response today in plenary to deny the image of a pre-drawn status quo and to show national responsible behaviour. There's another sign we can account for. We are witnessing civil activity, signatures are being submitted for national civic initiatives in different areas. On the one hand, we can say that this is encouraging because we see civil energy and active civil society. On the other hand, we need to think about these signatures, both this and the other, which will be offered to our attention, is related to the functioning of the state, with a change in the political model, with a change in thinking about the institutions at all. This is what happens on the eve of the 25th anniversary of the Constitution. Perhaps now or at a later stage we should open up this debate, and see if there is a need for a change in the Constitution, is there a need for a change in the political model? The ABB was a leader in the legislative initiative on changing the Law on citizens' consultation. We were the first to offer to ease the regime for holding referendums, with the threshold being 40% of those entitled to vote and to ease the petition by 500 to 300 thousand. This was not accepted, but suggests that we have a principled and consistent position, and that we support the holding of the referendum in the six issues, as proposed in the petition. Let us not shorten, let us not give the impression that we are deciding and predicting the outcome of this referendum. We support him in all matters. If we need to be principled again, we will also express some considerations against some of the issues, which does not mean that we do not want, after all, the sovereign to decide on their appropriateness and logic. We've always been about more majority in the election. We are supporters of the mixed electoral system because we believe that it is a smooth transition from the current proportional to such in a purely majority form. We would also support the introduction of a majority system. If the people also rule in this benefit, then it will be discussed in a debate whether this will violate party pluralism, whether it will reduce the number of parties represented in parliament and so on. I am in a hurry to say that this is not so that there are many systems in which a majority system operating in two tails does not deprive party pluralism and enters more than two or three parties. This discussion will take place later. The reduction in the number of MPs is probably the most popular issue, raising the most sympathies. This is the rocket carrier of this referendum. Whatever we say here as rational arguments for the appropriateness of this issue will be unproductive to us because it will be interpreted that we are afraid to defend our own existence here in Parliament, but we should not be afraid to say our objections. If for the people of the country, if this is the most attractive issue for the Bulgarian citizens, because we believe that money can be saved and the budget can benefit, I do not think that this is the case. Some simple calculations will show that the reduction with 120 deputies will not save much money for the state. We need to know that in the case of a majority system with 120 MPs in the National Assembly 30% will be the legitimate quorum for decision-making, which will be the representativeness of a political force. Let's think about whether this is really democratic. However, if financial considerations prevail, let us say that it is much more important to make an administrative reform and that, unfortunately, no government has ever had...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u27	Ms. Todorova, with inconvenience I interrupt you, but we are commenting on the adoption of a decision by the National Assembly to produce a national referendum. The consequences of the response of the Bulgarian citizens are at a further stage and depends on whether the referendum will be mandatory. Please concentrate on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u28	Yes, thank you. I have made some considerations about the individual elements. I think that the mandatory vote has largely been decided and it is good to put it to the vote again, as it will be seen post-factum whether people approve this decision of the National Assembly or not. We've always supported the electronic vote. We believe that this will greatly ease the procedure, but let us once again put this to the question, because the first time the referendum was not successful. Last thing I'm gonna say is a few words about the party grant. It makes sense that it's being reduced. But let's look into other people's experiences. The staggering in the other extreme of too low a subsidy will find a substitute in unregulated subsidies from corporations, black banks and so on. I've had the opportunity to monitor the system in the United States, and I know that senators and congressmen there are very difficult to find funding on their own. Let's not go from one extreme to another, but find the most appropriate solution. The last question proposed is also very attractive, but we need to consider whether it is possible in the current structure of the institutions, because the Minister of Interior is elected in the executive power, is voted through the legislative, and his staff will not be referred to by him as experts of the system, but by the people, and this would create some contradiction. This whole debate is coming up. Let us still hear the people from which we are referred here, let us indeed be its representatives, even his servants, to express his will, and then we will debate on the substance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? Mr. Kenov has a say in this. After him Mr. Delchev, Mr. Ananiev, now a request is given by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we at the Bulgarian Democratic Center are a liberal party and we would like more questions to be put in referendums, so we will support all the issues that have been submitted to the National Assembly. Let them be placed on citizens and they say their opinions. Our decision is about direct democracy, although we have reservations about most of the issues. We believe that they are contrary to the current law, constitutional law in the Republic of Bulgaria, but the dose of populism and the desire to show public attitudes can lead to a very dangerous collapse of the political system in the country, pluralistic democracy and even damage the state of the Ministry of Interior with absurd changes that destroy the principle of subordination and why not the transfer of the law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria to the hands of local groups that can realise their unclean interests through the district governments and district directorates. Despite these reservations, we will vote for a referendum on the six issues. Let the Bulgarian citizens decide and we will comply with their wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Mr. Delchev, Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we from the Reformation Block will support the proposed issues in their entirety, because we believe that the voice of the people, and in this petition we have signed nearly 700 thousand people, which in itself is an impressive fact, must be heard. We believe that people should be asked questions that concern government regularly and then be ready to hear their answer. Some of the questions, including the question of whether to have a majority or proportional system, about whether to have a choice of directors of regional police directorates are widely discussed in society. There are really polar opinions on them from one to the other polarity. And that is exactly the purpose of the referendum to see what the majority of people support. I will not go into the depth of the questions, because this is coming, and this is not the subject of today's sitting. However, I would like to say that the Reformation bloc has been consistent in supporting civic initiatives and will also support this, as it has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I won't. The people's representative Nastimir Ananiev has signed up for a speech. Mr. Ananiev, in view of the rule of rotation of the groups first, I will give the floor to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, importers of the referendum proposal! This is one of the most important and difficult discussions in the National Assembly. I know that for many of the MPs it is better to quietly pass this topic, to vote on the proposals made and to proceed to the referendum. However, I consider it my duty to share with you some of the important issues that we are facing, because I have not only participated, but have actively worked on the formation and adoption of the Bulgarian Constitution, because I am the main initiator and author of the Bill for the direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government. Of course, this bill, as it was introduced years ago, gave greater opportunities for realization of this right. After all, it was adopted with a number of restrictions, but nevertheless it is the Law, which for the first time in the new Bulgarian history, gives an irrevocably right at the initiative of a certain number of Bulgarian citizens to deal with and adopt a decision for holding a referendum. So these are important steps in the development of democracy in Bulgaria. With regard to the proposal itself. I know it's hard to talk because you're in danger of facing a TV show that shows up every night for an hour and repeats itself once more every day. I ask: if other capable people had not daily, but once a week television time, no matter what column in which they strongly imposed a thesis, to promote it, to motivate it, what effect would be achieved? This raises the big questions not for this referendum, but where are the borders between political, economic and media power? Can you allow the concentration of all these resources into the hands of a few people? Because democracy is only where different resources of power are divided into different hands, and not just state power is shared between different institutions. These are the major issues of democracy in the early 21st century, unlike classical democracy, as it arose in the late 19th century. I recommend to all Bulgarian media, who otherwise move in the flow of the topics and who often repeat the names of the government more than the media in Bulgaria 25 years ago, to put these issues to discussion. In this referendum we cannot fail to respect the initiative of several hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens. In addition, however, some of these issues pose topics that concern the Constitution, are some of these issues constitutionally admissible? Here the criteria are completely different. On the one hand, the will of the initiators must be respected, on the other hand, the Bulgarian Constitution says that a referendum can be held on issues, including constitutional matters, but not on issues within the remit of the Grand National Assembly. Bulgaria has chosen a particular intermediate model for the most significant amendments to the Constitution, which are preceded by elections, which are preceded by the preparation of a constitutional project and at a broad representative meeting are discussed and eventually adopted. I will give just a few examples, so that I do not enter into commentary on all matters. For example, do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? The question is: where is the critical limit that would reduce Parliament's role as a major institution in the country? Because if this number is proposed to be 180 or 160, hardly anyone would say that this weakens parliament's capacity, but the reduction of parliament is half as representative as I think already raises a question, but this issue can be raised after the adoption of the decision, because its response is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Or, philosophically, this is the question at which point quantitative changes lead to some quality shifts in relations between state institutions? I leave aside whether it is large or small Bulgarian Parliament because the Bulgarian population today is two million less here in Bulgaria than these almost nine million when the Constitution was adopted. But you claim that the Bulgarian Parliament must also represent the citizens of the world. In a neighbouring country like Serbia, the number of MPs continues to be 250, so we can also find examples of very large and less representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u35	This is not the subject of the debate today, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u36	It is not the subject, but I say that this issue raises other questions which cannot be ignored by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u37	Today we have to comment on eligibility of the issues and the draft solution. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u38	Madam President, please do not interrupt me, because this does not divert the subject, it puts it in its serious way that Bulgarian citizens should know. In this case, when it says what the MPs do or do not do, I must say that in every single parliament legislation there are people who have done almost nothing in Parliament, there are others who have done a lot. Because when we finish the meetings here, we go on many days to participate in different events in the electoral districts, often on Saturdays and Sundays. And ask yourself: will the sharp reduction of parliament strengthen its burden on the executive power and bring citizens closer to the work of the National Assembly? And why this question is challenged, I will now explain, and why I understand that Bulgarian citizens treat it positively. When parliament, as it was with the Election Code, one day voted on a decision, and the next day re-votes it in an opposite way; when parliament with a large majority sometimes adopts a decision and the next day the Prime Minister's instruction cancels it or says it will not apply it, what authority does this representative institution have? And people ask, does it really matter if there are over 200 people here, are there 100 people here, or just 10? In fact, I am surprised that my colleagues in the Legal Committee have not proposed re-editing the issue because, I am sure, the smaller the number of MPs proposed, the more this will be approved by the Bulgarian citizens. Why, colleagues, didn't you offer to be 100 or less? You could have even discussed the issue of a change in the Constitution and the National Assembly to be held no more than 20 people. And I'll tell you why. As there will never be more than 10 parties presented, and in the event of a majority election, they will in no way be more than three or four, it can be assumed that the National Assembly acts on a shareholder principle: it consists of two representatives of each group of Why does there have to be so many representatives? Why, when money is increasingly entering and determining Bulgarian politics, should so many people sit here? So the Bulgarian policy is increasingly privatized. Democracy itself is in decline not only in Bulgaria, because one percentage of people have as much wealth as 99% and cannot help but become representatives of opposing social groups. Those are the big questions. But don't be fooled, that's all I want to say to those who will vote that whatever changes are accepted in the political system, if the current socio-economic model does not change, it will be another conscious or unconscious fraud. At some point it can move very deeply the political layers, it may even collapse the current political system, but if the same model of creation, redistribution and abuse of public wealth is maintained, people's lives will not change. This I think we should tell them honestly before the referendum takes place. And otherwise I even suggest that the initiators use the show even more actively, for example, ballerinas every night on the show, to go out with signboards with the written questions. [[Laughter and applause in BSP LB]] , to dance, to ask them:............................. you are or There are many, many reserves for this to be done. Six months, the show must go on. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] So all of this has to be done in a synthetic art, as is in an American musical, political and economic themes, show performances, music. This is the synthetic image to which the Bulgarian society was brought for 25 years cultural degradation [[Applause from BSP LB]] There will be this referee who will understand because many of these people no longer understand arguments. They understand images, such messages that they can sincerely perceive and are accessible to what they have been taught and nurtured for so many years. So our parliamentary group will not oppose the movement of this process. There is an opportunity for sufficient MPs to support it in plenary. However, we are, again, putting some constitutional issues to which we have no right to give the final answer. That is why these topics remain open. But let's not go back to where we started when we're moving forward. The youngest Bulgarians do not remember that until 25 or 30 years ago the elections in Bulgaria were essentially mandatory, but this was not written in the Constitution because no one thought that the right to choose is something other than right. Even then, when the OF committees and party structures had to ensure almost a hundred percent participation in the elections, they did so by political means, not by legal means. There was even a race not just to vote, but who would vote earlier than the others. [[Radio, applause from BSP LB.]] So this is the urge. I know how far things have gone and how far politics has gone, that you've already dropped to a critically low level. Finally, think about one thing: yes, there is a need for both representative and direct democracy. But when the word "democracy" itself makes less and less sense, the adjectives before it cannot save it. Thank you. [[World and long applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u39	For the first line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests, dear Mr. Stoilov! A truly significant statement! It's just that I haven't had enough to make a note of all the things I'd like to pay attention to you. [[BSP LB lines, single-mouthed by BSP LB.]] First of all...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u41	Colleagues, please, no lines! Please interfere with the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u42	Listen, I will praise you, on the contrary, I will praise you, because for the first time I have heard here on the left of this tribune, to speak in one of the official languages of the European Union, not in Russian, which I am very pleased to hear from Mr. Stoilov... [[Replications and loud cheers "Eee!" by BSP LB.]] I also really liked what we're learning about your new chairman making a first impression abroad...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u43	Mr. Slavov, a line on the subject! There has never been another language spoken from this tribune other than the Bulgarian one!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u44	I apologize, Madam President. Mr. Stoilov, I would like to point out to you that with this nostalgia and what you brought us back 25 years ago, 30 years ago, is not the best analogy for direct democracy and asking citizens' opinions. Then, we all remember, there was a party, about a media and a chief, and he whatever he said, this was happening, including what you were trying to convince us how people voluntarily voted. We all remember the party secretary calling people's apartments, giving out some ballots and saying, "They, your people, know, because otherwise, you know! So volunteering is not a good analogy. However, I would like to return you to the substance of the conversation. I expected to hear from you something more concrete, indeed, in relation to those things that your colleagues yesterday of the Legal Committee raised almost as constitutional problems, they asked how you would collect signatures to refer to the Constitutional Court and so on. Even you criticized them here and they didn't answer. I hope that you will really clarify this and tell the National Assembly and the importers of the Initiative Committee do you really intend to refer to the Constitutional Court, to want this referendum not to take place, because yesterday your colleagues listed at least five of the six issues as considered unconstitutional? So it's not bad to give us some clarity on this issue and, of course, how you think about doing this thing, because we all know that it takes 48 signatures to bring the Constitutional Court to justice. You don't have that much. In other words, will you again refer to the DPS and seek joint action with them, as you have prevented changes in the Law on referendums and so on? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u45	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u46	Yeah, I'm stopping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u47	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Comments from GERB: "Iidee...".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I expected that you would be much more extreme in your arguments and for example I do not agree that the National Assembly should be of 20 people. Why can't it just be closed down and not have statehood, for example? Okay. Why, for example, Mr. Stoilov, did you, by inviting the initiators, intervene only the ballerinas? What prevents Mr Aziz from being involved, for example, and from waving his naked buttocks, which are for some very attractive, for example? I don't agree with you limiting creative thought to a show. I don't agree at all. More than that. For example, why don't you propose extending the questions to every Bulgarian citizen to receive a $10,000 salary? It doesn't matter that the state won't be able to pay them and that it will go bankrupt on the third day. But will there be a citizen who doesn't want to get a $10,000 salary? Or must he take six months' paid leave to spend on Varadero, Honolulu and other exotic islands? Why? Don't you think about the Bulgarian citizen, according to art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution? I disagree, Mr. Stoilov, with something else. You have not addressed the issue, which is extremely important, which corresponds to an old cowboy movie: Choose the local sheriff. For example, it would be interesting to observe how the sheriff will be elected, i.e. the police chief in the Roma ghettos, who are the source of crime, would he not be the most prominent criminal to distribute the portions? Or, as Mrs Karayancheva reminds me, how will this police chief in Kardzhali be elected? It'll be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u49	Majority!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u50	By absolute majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u51	Mr. Ananiev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u52	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoilov, your speech-speech has been quite long, but I will only touch on the part of the so-called "voting" during communism. Let us not forget that at that time the driving force was the fear of Belene, the fear of Sunny Beach and other types of fears. So I don't think it's right for you to set this as an example from this tribune. I don't think you should do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u53	A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Slavov, I haven't spoken with nostalgia. Unfortunately, you haven't grasped the irony. But aren't we in such a column that we should try to combine the serious with the form of the present? Besides, the conditions in which you grew up should probably push you into a little nostalgia, right? [[Loud noise, laughter and loud applause from BSP LB.]] Regardless of the incarnations everyone has. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] With regard to Mr. Ananiev, yes, respect, fear has been a driving factor in the behaviour of a large number of people, but if you are now going to make them consciously vote, why do you apply a much softer penalty, this is an administrative penalty for not participating in a particular type of election, to automatically exclude them from the electoral lists? Isn't that also some form of impact? Because any legal penalty is intended to cause such internal motives to the one it is directed at. For Mr. Bajraktarov, yes, I do not underestimate the possibility that if there is a question to close the National Assembly, he can collect more approval than any other issue about the number of the National Assembly, but then there is no way to say to the world and to this Europe, which we are constantly discussing, what is this country that does not even have a parliament? If we are really talking about the parasitic administration, why is it that instead of just discussing the issue of the number of parliament, at least the issue is not discussed so actively that today in a market, in a divided Bulgaria, where Bulgaria produces the lowest percentage of national income on each country in the European Union through participation of the state is only about 10%? In other words, we are the most distant country and the most remote economy in the whole of the European Union, but no one raises the issue of the tens of agencies and committees in which thousands, tens of thousands of employees work. What will we save when they continue their work? And lastly, for the salary, our party does not engage in demagogy. We have proposed as a political platform to tell you what is the situation when labour productivity in Bulgaria is 2.5% lower than in the European Union, while wages are 4.5% lower, why do Bulgarian workers not receive twice as much wages? It's a matter of both state and business. And finally, Madam President! Dear initiators of the referendum, let this democratic urge give its results. But let everyone also ask themselves whether unconsciously or consciously behind this referendum the images of the regrouped Bulgarian oligarchy will rise again. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u55	He has the floor for Mrs. Magdalena Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the party are just shocked. We are currently discussing and qualifying as a democratic urge a vault of six issues, a quintessence of political illiteracy, which, among other things, is unconstitutional. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I'll read you art. 9, para. 1, t. 1 of the basic Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, which reads: Did you hear that?! Questions - the first, second and sixth - are from the competence of the Grand National Assembly and you are now standing here practicing eloquently how nice it is to have referendums in Bulgaria. Haven't you read the Constitution? Or do you think you have the right to trample it? Only on the basis of this argument, with a single sentence, a similar vault of questions should be caught and thrown into the basket where it belongs. A second paradox, though. The proposal for a referendum was advertised and, as colleagues on the left rightly pointed out, daily stuck in the heads of poor TV operators, as a kind of act of fighting against the status quo, against the current system. I want to think about this moment. Isn't it paradoxical that a referendum advertised as an act that will sweep away the oligarchy is supported by what the people call the Those who are elected according to the current one, i.e. the old system, in the face of GERB, especially the Reformation bloc, come out with two hands and support this referendum, the referendum that will throw them out of the political scene. Explain this paradox! I want to give you my explanation. [[Reply.]] Yes, with literacy or lack thereof, many things can be explained. Who offers this referendum and proudly even points out that he was the first to sign there on the form? The offshore millionaire Slavi Trifonov, the thug or, so to speak, the commander of the entire Chalgadian cohort in the Bulgarian media [[bourn applause from party "Attack" and shouts: "Bravo, bravo!"]] It will launch democratic changes in Bulgaria. I mean, how he became an offshore millionaire. On his sofa in the last 15 years all the ministers and prime ministers of Bulgaria took place. Arranged interviews, pre-recorded, haircuts, manipulated, for which they paid generously, are the basis of the millions of this student jester [[Elevator bell dings]] , to this rich man who walks in jeeps and with more security than the Head of State. From his sofa, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Ahmed Dogan announced his creed about the need for party hoops by companies.................................the need for party hoops by companies.......................................remember?........................................................................ And the chandelier clapped! From his couch even Monica was explained in love to Stanishev: I love him! From this sofa, the royal proteges announced, or more precisely, in the heads of the Bulgarian viewers, how harmful it is to have four small reactors of the NPP, Kozloduy, which have paid off and produced electricity worth two pennies per kilowatt hour. Even Viza Nedyalkova, as the wife of a prominent sociologist, explained from this sofa that a memorandum was equal to an international contract, and the same was important for non-pepper, as a person concerned about the promotion of Solomon Passy's ideas and so on. I'd like to remind you that this couch used to play stock games. In 2003, Milen Velchev then Finance Minister and his deputy Krasimir Katev lied about resigning, moved the value of the Brady bonds and the system of buy-sell, buy-sales and accumulated several million. Then it turns out they hadn't resigned, can you imagine? [[Laughs, laughing from the whole room.]] This is Meglena Kuneva's favorite sofa and Nadezhda Mihaylova today. I counted, I got to 14. For a year 14 times sitting on that couch, excuse me! If it's not a status quo, if it's not oligarchy, say hello! Look at the latest emissions: on this couch the entire Reformation Block came out, starting from September to October 25, 2014 did not come out of this sofa. [[Laughs. Applause and laughter by BSP LB.]] Radan Kanev. Oh, Georgi Parvanov, of course, didn't miss it, he was one of the favorites of the student showman. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u57	Mrs. Tasheva, please return to the subject of the debate. [[Laughter and excitement.]] You've changed the subject, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u58	Yeah, I'm coming back, I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u59	Come back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. I was just about to mention you. [[Laughs, loud laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u61	Remember me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u62	You just reminded me. I had something important to say about you. It's nothing scary! [[Laughs. Applause and excitement in the hall.]] The whole ideology and propaganda of this so-called referendum, which relies entirely on the political ignorance of the Bulgarian people, aims to direct the people's anger against the National Assembly, but not against the Council of Ministers, if you notice! It is suggested that the National Assembly is the tapeworm that sucks people's money, isn't it?! I would like to inform the student clown that the National Assembly has a budget of 51 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. less than the BNT budget. Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, that's what I was saying, Mrs. is distributing less money than Vyara Ankova. And how much money, how much billion the Council of Ministers distributes, additional material stimulus, bonuses, quests, cars and so on, this topic is not affected in the SlaviShow, if you have noticed. That's the point behind these illiterate questions. Imagine, because he has offshore companies, as far as I know, he also has properties in the United States, and I have just explained what interviews they have accumulated, he resides in the United States, he loved it there. You know, you've noticed that in this sexual-closetic humor with which he floodes the viewers every night, often sneaks in Slavi Trifonov's American dream. He's been in the United States, he's been abusing American movies, and he's decided [[Laughter]] It wouldn't hurt to have sheriffs in white cowboy hats in Bulgaria, would it?! That's where the political horizon of the initiator of this event reaches. [[Laughter and excitement.]] The colleagues rightly said: how little political culture you have to have to offer such a thing. Secondly, those who are currently watching and who have signed under the questions of the Slavi's show must know that the reduction of MPs half works entirely for the oligarchy for those who can buy an election area for example. In addition, the majority system, please, he recorded here with an absolute majority, he doesn't know what the majority means, so I'm sure. [[laughs]] , means that 49.99 per cent of those who voted for the other candidate remain without national representation. Is that democratic?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u63	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u64	No, it's anti-democratic! It's an anti-democratic pasquil whose true inspirationals were probably ashamed to show up, and that's why they used the student clown.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u65	Belgrade.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u66	It aims to turn Bulgaria into a presidential republic. Well, watch Erdogan and consider what was actually planned. The clown is only a carrier, he's just a courier. I'm not surprised this role fits him literally like a glove. However, let us put an end to this debate. It's embarrassing! It's embarrassing to debate. I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u67	Time, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u68	First, the referendum raises questions that are from the competence of the Grand National Assembly. This is unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u69	Shall we extend the time, Mrs. Tasheva? It ran out regularly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u70	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and "Attack." Single shouts by Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u71	You're gonna have to extend the time. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, it is clear to all of us that one Mrs. Tasheva knows one thing about her. [[Laughter at RB.]] I will only address the question, your attempt to answer who provoked, created this referendum. I am one of the people who signed it with the clear awareness that this is an opportunity for Bulgarian citizens to exercise their democratic right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u73	Provocation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u74	Like all of us here in Parliament, in this capacity, we have the opportunity to exercise it. It makes some feel very great, very knowledgeable and very capable. I may not agree with many of the questions and will not support them in the referendum itself. I am aware that they are against the interests of many parties, including the party that I represent. There is, however, a democratic right: the minority's right to become a majority must be protected by everyone. I do not agree with your positions of principle and ideological, but I do not mind you being able to freely express and promote your beliefs, and I will fight against them. This is the principle for which referendums should be supported, not because of the many nonsense I think they are saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u75	Second line? Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I think you missed something in your speech. I ask you very much to pay attention to this if you think you missed it, because you do not agree with what I will say that those who form public opinion and form a civil society have more responsibility than others. Those who form a civil society must form a civil society that meets the principles and construction of the state, its democracy, and not turn it into a flock that follows some hidden goals and ultimately drives the herd into the fold where wolves rule. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Therefore, please pay close attention to whether there is any responsibility for these people, who are considered politically responsible, that they should form a civil society that meets the principles of democracy and not the principles of the most vulgar populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u77	Mr. Kadyev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u78	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, dear colleagues! With your speech, you've turned parliament into such a circus that only sofas are missing. It doesn't matter who initiated a referendum. It doesn't matter, even less whether the person concerned is from Schen Dol, Alfatar, Kardjali or anywhere. It doesn't matter if we like the questions or not. On some of these issues, I am a great supporter, for example, the majority vote, and I am a great opponent, for example, the mandatory vote. That doesn't matter at all. The only thing that matters is the collected votes, the volition of a large group of Bulgarian citizens Period. We're putting him on a referendum. We need to learn one simple thing: referendums are a good thing and the only thing I regret is that there is no issue that makes referendums even easier to organise and vote after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u79	A hole, Mrs. Tasheva. Colleagues, this is what I'm trying to direct the debate to. The subject of today's debate is the adoption of a decision binding on the National Assembly in view of the number of valid signatures in the initial committee's signature. As you can see, I can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u80	Unrespectable Korman Ismailov, if you fail to get Lutvi Mestan to admit that he has signed, I will confess a contribution to the Bulgarian history. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] However, here you must have a minimal amount of political culture between the questions of this so-called referendum. It is precisely the opportunity for a handful of rich people to buy elections. You have the money, Turkey is behind this, I have no doubt that you would be happy if, for example, the number of MPs becomes 120 and they are elected by an absolute majority, because in Kardzhali, in mixed areas, in the expatriation companies, Bursa and so on you will be able to organise an absolute majority. No wonder a electricity and gambling trader also welcomes the majority vote! [[Applause from GERB and "Attack."]] Isn't he the kind of guy he's made for? So that only those who are rich at the time of the outlaw transition can buy parliamentary seats not because of a salary of 3,000 BGN, they have so much dinner, but so that in this room they can provide a political umbrella and privacy! That is the purpose of the referendum! And I was just pointing out that the millionaire is also off-shore. Notice, the offshore millionaire went to democratize Bulgaria, to fix it! Mr. Ermenkov, yes, you're right. I accept your remark. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u81	You're welcome, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u82	My procedure is in the manner of conduct, Madam President. Parliament's approval is 9%, and we allow a circus. Let's not insult the circus. The circus is an art. You've allowed many public figures to be offended. They're not here, they can't come out and protect their name. All the mockery, applause, laughter brings us to that 9%. As the host of the Assembly, I call on you to stick to order so that we can raise Parliament's reputation, although, as I see it, to the bottom of the House, to 1% or to zero, we still have somewhere to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u83	Dear Mr. Ananiev, I would accept your criticism in the manner of conduct if you refer to a specific provision of the Rules which I have broken. However, I declare that the order in this House is not solely the responsibility of the President or of the participants in the management of the plenary sitting, but is primarily the responsibility of all Members of the Parliament! We are only following, according to our Rules, when we go beyond the acceptable limits, I admit that they are very wide. Only then have I corrected the way in which I have authority under the Rules. And I've reminded not only the unspeakable but also the other MPs before they came back to the subject! Mr. Kadyev has the floor. You're giving up. I'm following some group rotation. It's you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! We in the Reformation bloc will support the referendum because it is one of the best forms of control and consultation with the citizens, given the number of the signatures, it is not insignificant, it is quite large. But we have one problem. Currently, unfortunately, referendums are not working and are used only for populism and election purposes. In order for the referendum to work, it must be able to have the binding effect we are looking for. Now, with those 3 million votes that should have a binding effect, there won't be one. The referendums, in order to be binding, must be tied to the vote in the parliamentary elections, but not to all the votes, but to those voted, which are either for the largest party, as in the last elections, it is GERB 1 million 72 thousand votes, or to the majority that is currently ruling it is a million and 600,000 votes. If we have a million and 600,000, with what we rule the state through parliament, it also means having a binding effect on the referendums themselves. Otherwise, they become like the mandatory vote that we adopted on paper alone is mandatory, not necessarily at all. Regarding the comments that some of the colleagues have made about the problems with the Constitution. Yes, some of the questions are settled by a Grand National Assembly. But if there is a binding character at the moment, unfortunately, with more than 3 million votes, the..... must be supported and came here in Parliament, then we will have and are obliged to call a Grand National Assembly to resolve the issue of the nature that has been raised. I have a lot of comments on the questions themselves. Why 120 MPs, why not 150, 170, why not 200? I didn't hear any particular argument,... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u85	Wait a minute, Mr. Ananiev. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. The noise is indeed higher than usual, which is why I ask you to express the necessary respect for the speaker. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u86	Thank you. ...which makes me think 120 is offered only because it sounds good. I personally am about reducing the number of MPs, but not more than 60. To have a really working parliament, MPs can't be less than 180. [[Reply.]] Yes, I can protect the number of people we're going to get into this debate with you if we have to, but now is not the time. The other disturbing thing about questions is the proposal for majority choice. In order for there to be a real majority choice, not the one held in 2009, Bulgaria must be divided into 240 Mirs and in each Mir there should be an equal number of voters. [[Reply from the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov.]] It doesn't matter. 240 Mirs with an equal number of voters, without active registration, which was rejected last week. Unfortunately, I don't see how this is going to happen. Other than the proposals, the reduction of the subsidy. It has been repeatedly proposed. Yeah, she's tall right now. We from the Movement of the Bulgarian citizens....we proposed a model..to put a ceiling on this subsidy. Unfortunately, he was rejected, too. Parties must have a state subsidy in order to be able to carry out their operational activities. Otherwise, if it is not enough, we should all become like the NASCAR pilots who stick their sponsors' ads in their clothes to actually know how the parties stand themselves. The mandatory vote, I have repeatedly spoken, cannot oblige anyone to exercise their constitutional right to vote, which is democratic. We need all of us who are involved in the electoral process to get these people to come out and vote for us as individuals or for the parties and policies we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, colleague, do not speculate and enter the hall and the audience and those who are watching us on the relevant televisions are delusional. You know very well that a national referendum cannot cause a Grand National Assembly as a procedure. Yes, it can eroticize to such an extent the model of a state structure that it will come to the convening of a Grand National Assembly, but in essence, in order to have a Grand National Assembly, there must be a bill, not a national referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u89	Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ananiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u90	Thank you. Mr. Popov, if the referendum is working and binding, and obliges the National Assembly, the National Assembly can challenge a Grand National Assembly with all the attributes required.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u91	At your discretion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u92	Not at your discretion. Once it is mandatory, it has met the mandatory element, unfortunately, it is currently 3 million and over 3 million votes, and it should be much less, since we rule by a million and six hundred thousand votes, it should be able with the same percentage to have a mandatory element. Then the National Assembly will convene, if the people want, a Grand National Assembly and we will rule on the questions that have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Daniel Kirilov has the floor to speak. After him Mr. Philip Popov, then Mr. Radan Kanev signed up, Mr. Hamid and Valeri Zablyanov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I signed up for a speech so I wouldn't abuse the procedure. In fact, my proposal is entirely procedural about the draft decision. In view of the position put forward by the President of our parliamentary group, Mr. Tsvetanov, to support the six questions, I am making the proposal that the draft voting decision and the six issues be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u95	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wondered if after Yanaki Stoilov's speech there was any point in speaking in this House, because it really covered in its essential part the whole policy that revolves around this referendum. I do not intend to go into the heart of the questions, because this is clearly relevant to today's decision that the National Assembly should adopt. However, I strongly say that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is not against the referendum, it is not against direct democracy, at least because it was our first initiative to produce a national referendum, for which we collected over 800,000 signatures. We claim to be a modern, modern parliamentary republic, a member of the European Union that has adopted European values. For the first time, the expression "government state" was used by German lawyer Robert von Maul back in 1832. Today we are 2016 and the rule of law is threatened here and now in the Bulgarian Parliament, because the rule of law is a tool for organizing society, for carrying out the following tasks: the first and the main, is the rule of law........................... the equality of everyone before the law................................... Dear Members of Parliament, it is the Constitution that distinguishes the rule of law from other forms of population of individuals. In our Constitution clearly in art. 1, para. 1 is written that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary government. 2 states that the entire government derives from the people. It is carried out by it directly and through the authorities provided for in this Constitution. Here, honourable MPs, in para. 2 of the Constitution, of art. 1, with one sentence short but perfectly clear is the interaction and complementarity between direct and representative democracy. Dear Members of Parliament, as such, you are obliged to defend the constitutional order of the country as part of the understanding of representative democracy. Remember that this is also part of the oath that we have all taken as MPs. Don't forget art. 5 of our Constitution, which reads in its para. 1 that the Constitution is a supreme law and the other laws cannot make it known and that the provisions of the Constitution have immediate effect. For some of these questions, there is a reasonable doubt that they are unconstitutional and fall within the competence of the Grand National Assembly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government is clearly and categorically stated that: "Through a national referendum, issues cannot be solved: 1. of the competence of the Grand National In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 of the same Law is also written that the National Assembly adopts a decision to produce a national referendum when requested by an initiative committee with a signature containing the signatures of no less than 400,000 Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights and is not contrary to the restrictions under art. 9, para. 2, 3 and 4. It is about the competence of the Grand National Assembly. Here we have cumulative two conditions. One of them has been executed over 400,000 signatures, but for the other, in the face of reasonable doubts, we cannot be sure until the Constitutional Court has ruled. At present, there is no such pronouncement. In view of the above, in view of the oath we have taken as MPs, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all our actions to be guided by the interests of the people, and the interest of the people, honourable Members, is the rule of law and rule of law. We cannot afford in any way to participate in the formation of this act of the National Assembly. Not until there is a ruling by the Bulgarian Constitutional Court. That is why we, with the clear minds of parliamentarians, and not populists, strongly refuse to be part of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The line.. the People's Representative Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to ask you very clearly and briefly to tell us what you intend to do on the left, because, on the one hand, I have just heard your colleague say that you will not oppose the voice and will of the Bulgarian citizens, while you are now saying the opposite. Now, if you're forming some opposition and other currents there, that's another matter, but tell me clearly, let's know what your intentions are. Yesterday, in the Legal Committee, you stated a strong intention to seek referral of the Constitutional Court and a request to declare unconstitutionality of the National Assembly's decision to postpone the referendum. Do you confirm your intention? Will you be looking for DPS support for this thing to happen? At all, make it brief and clear to the people! Don't quote the classics in philosophy, law and so on, like you did. And one more thing, let me say here, as I did yesterday and the Legal Committee, I have paid attention to not forgetting just two weeks ago who was among the importers of one of the darkest proposals that have been made recently regarding referendums, namely the ban on taking place on one day. And I ask you not to hide behind your former chairman's back any longer, as he and a group of MPs are referred to as an importer, but come out here and say that you were actually among the importers of this proposal, which you then misled the House. It was initially supported and then corrected. So let this thing be known, too, but first of all tell us clearly what you will do about the proposal for this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line, Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u100	Dear Mr. Popov, I think you're making a mistake. Yes, it is possible that some of these issues are unconstitutional. To this end, however, we need a decision of the Constitutional Court and even if there is such a decision we will make a simple conclusion and it is that we need to change the Constitution because the volition of Bulgarian citizens is more important than anything else. Therefore, if the BSP group really wants to challenge the questioning to the Constitutional Court, I am personally willing to give my signature on this thing. I do not know if you need it, but if the Constitutional Court nevertheless decides that some of these issues are unconstitutional, I will do absolutely anything to change the Constitution then in the direction in which Bulgarian citizens want it to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov, would you like to use it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm the one who's taking the opportunity for a douche bag. I will answer in this way: yes, of all these speeches, I will tell you what our intentions are, but I also understood yours. Obviously, they are the convening of a Grand People's Assembly and the stinking of some subsequent authorities, no matter what they will be, on your part. It is totally outrageous, Mr. Slavov, to impose a referendum with questions that clearly raise doubts about unconstitutionality and unlawfulness in relation to the law of direct involvement of citizens. That's totalitarian. It is not totalitarian, there is nothing wrong and do not be afraid to ask the Constitutional Court. And in order not to be this signature decorated politically, why don't you join us? You're lawyers, aren't you? You're defending democracy, aren't you? You're protecting this country's device, aren't you? One of its bodies is precisely the Constitutional Court. There are people working professionally, respected lawyers with years of experience. Let them pronounce themselves. Why are you afraid of the Constitutional Court? I know why you are afraid because in a rule of law, when its authorities work, as is the Constitutional Court, then you are afraid you, who are trying to impose this oligarchic totalitarianism in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Popov. To speak, the People's Representative Radan Kanev. [[Heckling]] You refuse to make a statement. All right, Mr. Kanev. The next speaker is the People's Representative Mr Hamid.. Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will vote against the proposed solution and oppose the questions thus formulated. We will vote against it because we want to have the moral right, campaigning the issues of this referendum to our voters, to explain what will be the consequences of the possible damage that will cause these issues to Bulgarian democracy. At the very beginning of today's debate, a representative of the Initiative Committee urged all of us to follow the law. That is why we are going to vote against it to save the law, because no one mentioned that article. 9, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government does not allow referendums, the issues of which are of the competence of the Grand National Assembly, that is, here, Mr. Ananiev, there is no way to hold a referendum, to hear the voice of the people and to call a Grand National Assembly, because such a referendum should not be allowed under the Law and not under the Constitution. According to us, half of the questions raised are from the competence of the Grand National Assembly and there is no way to allow this referendum until the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government is amended, respectively, to remove para. 2 of this Law, i.e. this is the legal obstacle for this referendum to be held in this form. I do not accept the thesis that, you see, if 700,000 Bulgarian citizens have signed the signature, then, regardless of our legal considerations, from the legal obstacles to its conduct, we must let it go. I do not accept the thesis that the Bulgarian Parliament today remains a little more than a month until the 25th anniversary of this Constitution is celebrated, I do not accept exactly 45 days before this notation the Bulgarian Parliament to violate this Constitution and that is why we will vote against. We do not accept the thesis that part of the Bulgarian people can claim their national sovereignty and this is written at the beginning of this Constitution. I do not accept the thesis that the question of the election of district directors of the police and the respective district police departments is not a change of the country's management order. All of this art. 143 of the Constitution, fellow Members, says: the governor of the district ensures the conduct of state policy, is responsible for protecting national interests, law and public order, and implements administrative control. This text in connection with art. 105 of the Constitution must be changed, and this can only be done through a Grand National Assembly. The issue of reducing party subsidies is a very old debate, but it should be held here in this National Assembly. We must decide whether the Bulgarian political system should be financed by the state or by unclear business and criminal structures, as I hear they are lurking here and there. The question is proposed so that the Bulgarian people can not be misled. It's like asking him: do you want to reduce the price of wine, do you want to reduce the price of gasoline, which absurd question awaits us very soon in this National Assembly? So without being opposed to holding referendums, we are opposed to including in these referendums issues that are from the Grand National Assembly's competence, and that is why we will vote against and not because we are opposed to holding the referendums. In conclusion, Mr. President, I ask from this high tribune to announce 12 May as a celebration, as a day of the victory of populism over the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you. Happy Thanksgiving, guys! [[Applause from DPS and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? Mr. Radan Kanev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u106	Mr. Hamid, first of all, I must thank you that, against the backdrop of the disgusting populism that has been raging in this room, completely unnecessary, of the total promiscuousness of this entire debate, you have turned to the right question, to the only possible subject of debate, albeit with arguments that I do not accept, and now I will disprove. We are obliged to vote for these six issues, so discussing them in substance or discussing the sofa is a pure trial of promiscuous speech in this room, but there is one question that stands open. Just one, just one! And most of our groups ran out of time without affecting that issue. And it is: can this House in today's vote decide which question is the subject of a Grand National Assembly or should anyone else judge? Because the theme "Which issue is one of the competences of the Grand National Assembly" is one of the most stretching topics in Bulgarian legislation and politics, especially since 2003, 13 years ago. What I want to defend, to replicate against your view, is that there is no power in this House to say which question is of the competence of the Grand National Assembly and can therefore be dropped, especially in the absence of a clearly expressed issue of the type of transition from republic to monarchy, or from a unified state to a federation which are clearly explicitally written in the Constitution. Everything else is an interpretation, which is not the competence of parliament, but of the Constitutional Court. And here I would like to point out that the DPS is not for the first time, by the way, and in the face of the exceptions you are already a former leader, and now at its new leadership, trying to embezzle the right of a judge on the subject which question is from the competence of the Grand National Assembly. It's risky for you first of all, don't do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Second line? I won't. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u108	Thank you for your reply, Mr. Kanev, although it was not necessary to show your addiction to this sofa, because you are an honored guest there and your ones are heard from this sofa and not from this tribune. [[Laughter and excitement.]] But that's your choice. As to this, the DPS does not determine which issue is unconstitutional and who is not, but we, unlike you, are following the Bulgarian laws. We clearly read art. 9, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government and the National Assembly is the body which decides whether to hold a referendum or not. The National Assembly shall take a decision and each Member of the National Assembly shall vote on its own conscience, on its own convictions. I don't accept the thesis that we are obliged to vote for it just because you and your sofa like it that way. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. To speak, the people representative Valeri Zablyanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable initiators of the referendum! [[Reply: the Map!]] Could you please increase the time of the parliamentary group by five minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u111	It's elevated. You have three minutes and ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u112	Thanks, I'll try to fit in with them then. I'll start with the Constitution. I feel like she's missing from today's discussion. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 of the Constitution, honourable initiators of the referendum, is written that the National Assembly consists of 240 MPs. There is no possibility of interpretive decisions of anyone, not even the Constitutional Court. Our Constitution has a direct effect and since the initiators of the referendum have considered that, by questioning the number of MPs, they can attack texts in the Constitution and attack the Constitution directly, it means that they want to change the structure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u113	To the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u114	And the state, as Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. The conclusion of this will be made a little later in my speech. I would like to start with the following: honourable organizers of the referendum, there is hardly a Bulgarian citizen who is not familiar with the political ideas that you are developing in your otherwise entertaining show, which because of the form attracts a large number of Bulgarian viewers. But I would like to address you with one insistence: the Bulgarian state is at all, and if you have not yet understood that with these issues, undermining the constitutional order in the state, you are questioning the foundations of the Bulgarian statehood, then that patriotism, which you seem to me, is purely confessing in your programmes, which is based on all your plots and scenarios, will remain without place for your expression. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] Patriotism is inextricably linked to the state and statehood, and therefore I am amazed how people who advertise themselves to the Bulgarian society as patriots, as nationalists to some extent, who seek to draw public attention to those periods of our history, who make us proud as Bulgarians, are able to attack the foundations of statehood, such as the Constitution?! Because in the history of other peoples and other countries, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. You're not expanding democracy, dear organizers. You're tearing down the republic, or you're trying to bring down the republic. Here I would like to draw attention to one more important issue, a key issue, the issue of the unity of the nation. You're trying to divide the nation. You are trying to oppose those citizens who have not voted for parties, those who vote for parties. You are trying to bring a part of the Bulgarian people against parliament, and all these consequences have their answers, and I can tell what this is.. this is an attempt of a moving coup. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I would like to conclude with the following: the great grandfather of today's entertainment show, the student broadcast, blew up the NPP on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u115	Please complete your thought as time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u116	You all remember how they blew up Kozloduy NPP on TV and then caused panic throughout Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Today you have set a more ambitious task to blow up the Constitution and constitutional order in the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u117	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u118	I hope the majority will be at the responsibility that... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u119	Mr. Jablyanov, you're really running out of time by more than half a minute. Be so kind as to complete your thought. I'll be forced to take your word for it. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Timer. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I would like to address the Members of the National Assembly - the majority has a responsibility to bear it and vote against this moving anti-constitutional coup attempt. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u121	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs who would like to take part in the debate on the subject? I won't. I close the debate and put the following to the vote. ? RESPONSIBILITY? to produce a national referendum The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 84, p. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in the state power and local self-government...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u122	Colleagues, first sound signal, I call the Members of the House. The Quaestors, please cooperate. The Legal Committee report also contains a draft decision on which several editorial amendments and additions have been made. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal that the Decision should have a name that is correct and that is a decision to produce a national referendum. We are voting on this editorial supplement. They voted 142 MPs: 122, against 18, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next editorial proposal is in the operative part of the decision instead of approving a proposal for the production of a National referendum with questions. We are voting on this editorial proposal. Vote 147 MPs: 126 against 19, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u123	He had a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u124	You've been speaking to the point, however, Mr. Zablyanov. The next proposal in the version of the draft decision made by Mr. Danail Kirilov after the statement of the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB. The proposal is to formally include the sixth issue, which, on the Commission's report, has been rejected, is not in the project. I shall put the six questions to the vote, as set out by the Initiative Committee. Since no proposals were made for editing the questions, to be in the operative part of the decision, which means automatically that the numbering is also returned. Initially, it was suggested that the numbering be dropped, as we have no right to renumber. But when the six issues are proposed to be admitted, they go with their numbers as they are in the initial committee's signature. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 150 MPs: 130, against 18, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. After the votes taken, I should submit the Decision in full, but since editorial changes have been made to the original draft, I will read, in line with the votes just taken, what will be put to the vote as a complete version of the decision. ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the production of the National referendum The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 10, para. 2 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED To produce a National referendum with the following questions: 1. Do you support the election of the MPs by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? 2. Do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? 3. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums? 4. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? 5. Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a real vote in the last parliamentary elections? 6. Do you support the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? We vote his decision in full. Vote 150 MPs: 131, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative votes? I won't. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: FIRST READING THE COUNTERPARTY LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY SYSTEM WITH SINGLE EUROPEAN NUMBER 112. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Tsvetanov, who will present the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015. At its regular meeting held on 27 April 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdzhanov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives: from the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister, and Stoyan Gramatikov Director of the Directorate of the National System 112 and Nikolay Ninov Chairman of the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov. In his exhibition he stressed that phone 112 is used by a voice message that puts people with voice or hearing disabilities at a disadvantage. Therefore, importers of this Bill propose a change to the current National Emergency System Act with a single European No 112 to find a technical solution to provide 112 phone and people with auditory or speech disabilities. Express confidence that the representatives of mobile operators licensed to operate within the territory of the country are able to provide technical means for communicating with those with those disabilities. In the course of the discussion the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Tzipov said that finding a solution was related to an amendment of point. 4 of the Additional provisions of the National Emergency System Act with single European number 112. The definition of an emergency call shall include, other than a voice call and a call by any other means. Point out that the Ministry of Interior has held workshops with mobile operators to find a technical solution through a software application for smart phones, thereby being able to communicate with the centers of phone 112. In the debates the President of the Commission, Tsvetan Tsvetanov also took note of the need for the Ministry of Interior to determine the technical parameters and deadlines for the implementation of the provision of access to phone 112 of people with speech or hearing disabilities. NGO representatives expressed support for finding a suitable technical solution to the problem. After the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 12 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the National Emergency System with a Single European No 112, No 554-01-185, submitted by Atanas Todorov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Report from the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u127	Madam President, in connection with the discussion of the Bill, with importer Mr. Merdjanov, please allow us access to the hall of Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior and Mr. Gramatikov, who responds personally and directs the European telephone number 112. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u128	Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kiril Dobrev will introduce us to the Health Committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u129	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015. At its regular meeting held on 7 April 2016, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdzhanov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health; Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior; representatives of word organizations in the field of health; of patient organizations; representative organisations of people with hearing and speech disabilities; representatives of mobile operators licensed to operate in the country. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Georgi Gokov. He emphasized on the fact that the Law on the National Emergency System with a single European number 112 was adopted in 2008 and provided rapid, free and continuous access for citizens to emergency services to receive emergency assistance in order to protect their lives, health, security and property. The ability to use phone 112 is through a voice message, a voice call that puts people with speech and/or hearing disabilities at a disadvantage. The Member of the National Assembly added that during the mandates of three previous National Assemblys, bills were introduced proposing to introduce the possibility for the group of people with speech and/or hearing disabilities to be placed in an equivalent position but did not reach the final adoption of any of these laws. In this regard, the importers of the present propose a change to the current Law on the National Emergency System with a single European number 112, and Mr. Gokov pointed out in his statement on behalf of the importers that they leave finding the appropriate technical solution for providing access to 112 phones to people with hearing and/or speaking disabilities to the assessment of the Ministry of Interior and experts. In the course of the discussion, Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov presented briefly the official written statement of the Ministry of Interior on the bill. He briefed the members of the Commission on the proposal............................................................................................. 4 of § 1 of the Additional provisions of the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 by means of a precise definition of the notion of an emergency call, which includes other than a voice call and a call made by other means for people with hearing or speaking disabilities. In this way, the objective that importers of the bill have identified could be achieved. In addition, it has been stated that the Ministry of Interior has held meetings with mobile operators, which will together be able to combine expertise to find an appropriate technical solution through a software application for so-called smart phones to carry out the communication with the 112 Centres. During the discussion, the need to provide sufficient time for the technical provision of access to 112 phones for people with speech and/or hearing disabilities was highlighted. The President of the Union of the Deaf in Bulgaria, Mr. Nikolay Ninov, the Executive Director of the Association of Deaf People, Mrs. Iliana Valcheva, expressed support for finding a possible and appropriate solution to the issue discussed. In written opinions presented to the members of the Committee on Health, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, they have expressed their support in principle for the bill. The Minister of Finance pointed out in a written opinion that, in view of the fact that importers of the Bill are MPs, the proposed changes to ensure the necessary conditions in the Centres 112 for access to the National Emergency System for Hearing or Speaking Disabilities are primarily a matter of legislative appropriateness. It is stated that given the functional competence of the Ministry of Finance, at this stage it cannot express an opinion because there is no part of the mandatory content of the reasons, according to art. 28 of the Law on Regulatory Acts, namely, the lack of estimated data on the financial and other funds needed for the implementation of the new legislation and a reference to the State Budget Act for 2016 and the three-year budget forecast was made. In their written opinions, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals and the Bulgarian Red Cross expressed their support for the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the National Emergency System with Single European Number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 11 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Merdjanov, but I suggest that this be done after the break. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] You believe that within one minute you will be able to submit your comments to the importers? [[Noise and lines.]] I can't take the right to rest for the MPs, so after the importers, I'll give it a rest. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I really do not intend to speculate with the time of the Members of the National Assembly, all the more so that the reasons of the bill are indisputable and they would hardly be challenged by any of the Members of the National Assembly. This Law has suffered enough, but far more have suffered in the years disadvantaged people. Here is the place to express my gratitude to the representatives of GERB, in the face of Mr. Tsvetanov and Mrs. Daritkova, who held meetings of the relevant parliamentary committees and by consensus this Law was adopted. I believe that this action will be a serious gesture of attention to people with disabilities. I'm a little embarrassed by the Treasury Department. Let them not be a stumbling block and actually be able, within the legal period of six months or a year, indeed, to bring the Law into effect, all the more so that the system itself gives sufficient indications of failure and the intentions of the Interior Minister to provide new funds, for a new public procurement also bring enough noise into the system. Thanks again for your support. I hope that the Bill will also receive full support from the Members of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u132	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u133	Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Before the interruption, we heard the reports of the committees to which the bill was allocated and its presentation on behalf of the importer. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Gokov wants the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, you will recognise that before and during elections, and in official statements we are all extremely concerned and empathetic about the conditions that are created for people with disabilities in Bulgaria. But in reality, our concern only reaches that point. Because in general, compared with the conditions in other countries and peoples around the world, it can be said that Bulgarian politicians and the state are debtors to these people. In other countries, for example, from the European Union, where we are a member of the European Union, a disabled person can lead a relatively independent life, travel, meet people, go to work, call 112 and receive help, be equal to other members of society and all without any particular problems and difficulties. But in Bulgaria this is not the case. We keep complaining that we lack resources, but it seems that above all we lack cultural maturity to acknowledge and accept that the different people are no less people and are equal to us, and that society and the state need in practice to provide them with these rights. That is why I am pleased that this point has entered our weekly program and I am even more pleased that yesterday we accepted Mr. Tsvetanov's proposal to do so. 2 for today, in order to enable the examination of the Bill. I wanted to thank Mr. Tsvetanov, I don't see him, but thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Now we can begin the discussion about one of the directions where people with impaired hearing and speech opportunities are being discriminated against. About a hundred thousand citizens with impaired hearing and speech opportunities practically do not have access to phone 112 and are waiting for this moment to see when we will compare them to other members of society or we will still close our eyes to their problems, that they cannot use an emergency phone. Don't you think they need this relationship more than people without disabilities, because they have a greater accident situation? From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we have repeatedly met with representatives of this community, listened to their problems and decided to bring these changes in order to respond to their desire and they like all others to be able to successfully seek assistance and assistance through the emergency phone. We did so on 11 December 2015. Since then, it has been more than five or six months and movement on this issue has been gone, apart from our insistence and our persistence to import it as a point in the weekly programme periodically, so that we can get to today, when empathy and the desire to establish equality is what humanity and humanity require, we have prevailed and we are already facing a solution to the problem. I'll remind you that it also requires art. 26 of the European Union Directive on universal service and consumer rights in relation to electronic communications networks and services. The time limit for transposition of this Directive expired on 25 May 2011. However, so far due to the specifics of the disease or rather of their disabilities, people with impaired hearing are almost and completely socially excluded. They cannot use electronic communication services, telephone 112 for example, radio, television and so on. With our proposals, we do not aim to complicate the lives of operators from phone 112, but we aim to at least partially correct this justice and aim at equal rights for all people. It and now everyone in theory has this right to use phone 112, but let's make sure that everyone has the opportunity to use this right at critical times. Our specific objective with this legislative initiative is to ensure continuous easy, fast and free access to the National Emergency System with a single European number 112 and to citizens with impaired hearing and impaired speech opportunities, access to all emergency services in order to receive emergency assistance in order to protect their lives, health, security and property. The fact that you supported the entry of this Bill into the National Assembly's weekly agenda with the vote is good. We have no time to delay solving this problem. We've put it off long enough. I told you that the deadline for transposition of the directive was 25 May 2011. Now if anyone in this House has any concerns, let them share them in the debates and look for answers, overcome problems and resolve the issue. In the 21st century, we are still technically creating such an opportunity for communication for people with impaired hearing is no problem at all. There are different options, the introduction of which do not predispose particularly large financial and personnel resources. It is because of the various possible technical solutions that allow people with auditory and speech disabilities to be accessed to the emergency services, our proposal for a change in art. 8 of the Law is generally formulated. With it the Ministry of Interior is involved the obligation to start actively working in search of the most effective solution. The fact that the text is very general enables the Ministry to choose the most convenient solution for the system and the MPs will be able to control the implementation of the institution's new obligation through forms of parliamentary control and by seeking feedback from the users of this service through their associations and organisations. The proposal also contains a six-month extension for the entry into force of the proposed provision in order to allow time to be provided for the study of the technical possibilities for preparation and provision of the necessary budgetary resources after its adoption by the National Assembly. And why not study foreign experience, because in a large number of countries, including the European Union, such as France, Sweden, Estonia, Denmark, Britain and other countries around the world, there is access to emergency services for hearing impaired users. Dear Members of Parliament, after everything I have said, and you are no less informed than I am on this subject, I call on you to adopt proposals at first reading and solve the problem. Money doesn't need much, maybe it'll be within 150,000. BGN, technical obstacles and problems also. We should not worry about disturbing the peace of mobile operators. For them, it will not be a problem even if they have to put in some tools to secure the accepted technical version by the Ministry of Interior. So I call on you to vote on the Bill at first reading, to accept it and to move towards solving the problem with those people who are waiting for our solution today to compare them to all the other Bulgarians in our country. Thank you for your attention. As I understand it, as yesterday was a consensus on the adoption of the Bill's agenda, and today, let us adopt it with full consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. We all listened to Mr. Gokov's call. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ROAD MOVE LAW, No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Ananiev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u136	Thank you. Before the report, I would like a procedure for admission to the hall of Anton Ginev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Krasimir Kalajdzhiev's Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Automobile Administration."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u137	We vote. Vote 89 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u138	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 April 2016, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and experts from the Ministry of Economy. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev. Proposals for amendments to the Road Traffic Act provide for measures at national level on the implementation of Regulation (EU) No The main objective of the regulation is to simplify the current legal framework and to reduce harmful emissions from L-category vehicles. At present, the rules for type-approval of L-category vehicles are laid down in the Road Traffic Act and regulations of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The draft draft is designed to define the authority authorising technical services to carry out the tests or conformity assessment of vehicles with the technical requirements. The rules for carrying out the assessment of technical services, the grounds for refusal to issue a certificate for the designation of a technical service and the rules for the termination of the rights arising from the certificate for the designation of technical services are also laid down. The order to challenge the acts of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency is also pointed out. Mr. Kalajdzhiev stressed that, at present, the Road Traffic Act lacks such and, in practice, there is no legal basis for refusing to designate a technical service or for terminating the rights of the technical service, which leads to an inability to effectively control compliance with the type-approval requirements of vehicles with regard to technical services. Amendments to the texts of the Law relating to the classification of vehicles of categories M, N and O are also proposed in order to align them with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Commission No 678/2011 of 14 July 2011 replacing Annex II and amending Annexes IV, IX and XI to Directive 2007/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles. The bill shall also determine the market surveillance authority within the meaning of art. 6 § 1 of the Regulation. It is proposed that the competent market surveillance authority for L-category vehicles and their systems, components and technical units in accordance with that provision be the Commission for the protection of consumers, which is currently the competent authority for the market surveillance of vehicles of all other categories. The draft law provides for the types of checks to be carried out by the Commission in the performance of its functions. In accordance with Article 76 of the Regulation, the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act provides for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements of the regulation. Changes related to the improvement of the state administration's control over the activities of persons who have received a certificate of registration for the first and second psychological examination under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act. There are also amendments to the Law relating to simplification and facilitation of administrative procedures and administrative service. Part of the amendments removes the requirement for the submission of documents certifying the status of traders and non-profit legal entities respectively in the Commercial Register and in the register of non-profit legal entities. It is also proposed that the period of the training authorisation for applicants for obtaining a licence may be extended for another 5 years and not to grant a new authorisation. According to importers, the proposed change is intended to facilitate both training and administration, since it will not be necessary to provide with the extension of the authorisation any documents submitted at its initial issue certifying compliance. Following the debates held on the Draft and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 9 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The next report is from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and will be presented to us by Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 27 April 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. The meeting was attended by Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Krassimir Kalajdzhiev, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and Svetlana Chausheva. The draft amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act provides for measures at national level on the application of Regulation (EU) No arena of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the approval and supervision of two-, three- and four-wheel vehicles. The regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework, reduce harmful emissions from L-category vehicles, increase the overall safety level, ensure adaptation to technical progress and strengthen market surveillance rules. The bill defines the body that will empower technical services to carry out tests or assessment of the conformity of vehicles with the technical requirements. At present, according to art. 138c, para. 3, p. 1 of the Road Traffic Act compliance with the requirements concerning the necessary capacity, specialized technical knowledge and proven experience in the specific areas of the technical services is certified by an evaluation report prepared by the Executive Agency. Unlike the previous arrangements in Directive 2002/24/EC and Directive 2007/46/EC, which provide that the assessment of conformity of the technical service with the requirements may be carried out by the approval authority or by an accreditation body, the Regulation does not provide that the assessment of technical services is to be carried out by an authority other than the approval authority. In this regard and in the light of the provision of art. 138, para. 2 of the Road Traffic Act, according to which the Executive Director of the Executive Agency is the competent authority for type-approval of new vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units in the Draft is provided that the Executive Director of the Agency will make the assessment of compliance of technical services with the requirements. It sets out the basic rules for the assessment of technical services, the ground for refusing to issue a certificate for the designation of a technical service and the grounds for termination of the rights arising from the certificate for the designation of technical services, the order for contesting the acts of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency. The bill shall designate a competent market surveillance authority for L-category vehicles as well as systems, components and technical units thereof in accordance with that provision to be the Commission for the Protection of Consumers. The types of checks to be carried out by the Commission in the performance of its functions as a competent market surveillance authority with the relevant mechanisms and powers to carry out effective controls are provided for. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. This was the report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kalajdzhiev, according to our Rules you have the right to speak. If you wish to take an attitude, give a raise. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Are there any willing to take part in the debate of the Law? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 602-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. Vote 95 MPs: 80, none, abstention 15. The bill was passed at first reading. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. [[Definitions between President Yavor Haytov and National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev is giving up the procedure. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO REFUND A DECISION OF 24 FEVRUARY 2016 TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REGULAR DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND DISCLOSURE OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION ON ECONOMIC POLICY AND TURISM, AS WELL as AND THE PROCEDURE FOR SELECTING THE ANALYSIS AND DISCLOSURE OF THE NEW PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A PRESENT, RESPONSIBILITY AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE CONCUREMENT. PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TERMINATE THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A PRESENT, A RESPONSIBILITY AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE CONCUSSION PROTECTION. Relevant opinions have been received. The first one belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Petar Kanev is ready to report to his chairman. Mr. Kanev, come in. "COMMODITY" under the draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, No 654-02-30, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 20 April 2016 examined and discussed the draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Applicants in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, No 6540-02-30, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016. The draft decision was presented by the MP Martin Dimitrov. According to the proposer, the draft new rules for the conduct of a new procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition are set out two new moments, namely: extending the deadline for broadcasting applications from 7 to 21 days and enabling non-governmental and professional organisations to make reasoned proposals for candidates, which may be recognized by MPs. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to reject the draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, No 654-02-30, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016. This is the first opinion on the project submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} under the draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-29, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016, and the draft decision to terminate the selection procedure for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-31, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 20 April 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-29, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016, and the draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-31, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016. The draft decision submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs was presented by MP Martin Dimitrov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed draft decision is to conduct a new procedure for selecting a guidance of the KPC to have more proposals and to choose to become more competitive. It is necessary for the new Commission for Protection of Competition to lead the fight against monopolies and cartels. Expectation is that the new KPC will be more competent and with higher results in its work. The draft decision submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs was presented by the MP Daniela Saveklieva. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed draft decision is: (a) termination of the selection procedure for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition; and (b) The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism within one month of the adoption of the decision to submit a Draft for the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The following discussion was attended by Zhelyo Boychev, Rumen Hristov, Petar Kanev, Martin Dimitrov and Kiril Tsochev. 1. After a four-vote vote on the vote on the vote on the issue, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to reject the Draft Decision repealing a decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-29, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016. 2. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-31, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The next opinion is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" on a draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting the procedural rules on the terms and conditions of the marketing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and for opening of a new procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-29, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of MPs on 6 April 2016, and a draft decision to end the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-31, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016. At its meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Decision repealing a decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and for opening a new procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-29, submitted by Petar Vladislavov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 6 April 2016, and a draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 6540-02-31, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of national representatives on 7 April 2016. The draft decision submitted by Peter Vladislavov Slavov and a group of MPs was presented by the importer Petar Slavov. It proposes the annulment of a decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, as well as the opening of a new procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Mr. Slavov noted that, along with this project, a draft decision for adoption of procedural rules was tabled and the aim is to open a new procedure and the project differs from the one submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The draft decision submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs was presented by Danail Kirilov. It provides for two operatives: suppose the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and (2) The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall, within one month of the adoption of the decision, submit a draft for the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Mr. Kirilov argues that the proposed decision is to open the selection procedure with the adoption of the rules of procedure, and they, according to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, are drawn up in the relevant committee. Members of the National Assembly Chetin Kazak, Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Dimitar Lazarov, Mithat Metin, Philip Popov, Emil Dimitrov and Chavdar Georgiev took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, after discussing the reasons that led to the need to terminate the procedure, the MPs agreed that a procedure for the election of a President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition was necessary. Mr. Philip Popov justified his decision to refrain from supporting the two projects, and Mr. Chavdar Georgiev noted that both decisions were incomplete. Mr. Petar Slavov argued his support for the submitted by him and a group of MPs Project and the majority of the MPs expressed their support for the project submitted by Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 3 votes in favour............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 16 votes for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 654-02-31, submitted by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers first, as an input document, there is the word Mr. Petar Slavov. Mr. Slavov, I would like to ask you to introduce the MPs to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that we have made with colleague Martin Dimitrov and other colleagues from the Reformation Block concerns the opening of a new procedure for the Commission for Protection of Competition. This procedure, which we all remember how it failed at the end of March, and since then, things seem to have stopped happening. For this reason, at the beginning of April, we have submitted the draft decisions, because obviously the problem of choosing a new composition of the KPC is serious and more delaying and delaying the selection of a quality composition of the KPC seems not only unjustified, but also dangerous, and quite urgent to happen sooner. The draft decision that we have proposed, i.e. the two draft decisions, but we are now looking at the first of them, it is precisely this thing that concerns ending the procedure so far and opening a new procedure for the election of President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. This is also the main difference with the other proposed draft decision by colleague Dobrev and colleagues from GERB, which was submitted the next day, and which also proposes to end the failed procedure, but introduces a one-month period within which the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will prepare the new procedural rules before proposing them to the plenary. This is something that we think we are already entering into May, by the end of this session there is not so much time left if we now give this new period of a month, perhaps more, while we are looking at the rules, it is quite real to fail by the end of this parliamentary session to develop the procedure and to conduct the competition and the selection of a new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Which means what? It means that the old composition, whose term expired as early as the end of last year in October, meaning that for more than six months they are beyond their mandate, will continue to perform their duties in the way they have done them so far, and obviously in a way that is not satisfactory, I think, for the vast majority of the people's representatives in this Chamber and for the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens. You know how much criticism there has been of this Commission, of all possible reproaches for cartels in all sectors of the economy, starting from the fuel sector, reaching construction, media and so on. Specific results from the work of this composition of the KPC, unfortunately, there are no over the years or the results are bad. I will even remind you of this reference, which we have repeatedly quoted with my colleague Dimitrov regarding acts of the KPC, the current composition of the KPC, which were adopted under the Law on Protection of Competition, and that in the first half of 2014 all their acts, which were appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, have been annulled. It's an amazing testimonial, at least for me, for a very low quality of work. I call on you to give an hour rather to proceed with an effective procedure for the selection of members and the management of the KPC. It should be selected as soon as possible in a procedure that guarantees a competitive fight, a qualitative choice, an opportunity to hear the proposals of the non-governmental sector as we have proposed, that is, all those things that will guarantee us a quality composition of the KPC, which will finally start defending competition in this country, defending the market, making the market work for the Bulgarian citizens, so that it can affect both prices and incomes, and in general in the way that a normal market economy is functioning. Because, fellow Members, we are constantly hearing excuses from one or another state authority. This is beyond our authority. This is within the powers of the KPC. At the same time, the KPC in our current composition sees that nothing is working. As I have pointed out, our proposal, in addition to ending the procedure so far, also provides for the opening of a new procedure. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you as a procedure to accept this so I won't take the floor again. If our draft decision is adopted, then you should put to the vote and our other draft decision, that is, I am making a procedural proposal to include it on the agenda under the conditions of possibility, if the proposed draft decision is adopted, because the second draft decision actually lists the specific rules that the Economic Commission will otherwise cook for a month and only then we will see them. We have written them, they largely correspond to the original rules that we have looked at in this Chamber, and I do not see what so much can change on them except what we have proposed to change, namely the deadline for proposals to be extended and to allow the non-governmental sector to be more active and to make qualitative proposals. If I have to read the Project Decision itself, what we're proposing is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u146	Mr. Slavov, read it all in the light of both the protocol and the transcript, and for a detailed introduction by fellow MPs who will probably take part in the debate. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u147	Project! DECISION repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and for opening a new procedure for the selection of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Repeal of Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and opening a new procedure for the selection of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly of.... May 2016 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. With regard to the second draft decision on behalf of the importers, I give the floor to the MP Delyan Dobrev. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is no difference in the reasons for the two bills tabled between me and colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. You know how the election of the composition of the KPC took place. There was only one proposal for Chairman of Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, who subsequently withdrew his candidacy. The Economic Commission had two options when the candidacy was withdrawn. One was to continue with the election of members of the KPC without Chairman, and the second to end the procedure and start again with the entire Commission's choice. It was purely legal and technical that it was more correct to terminate the procedure and start a new one. That also makes sense, except it's legally more correct. How can you choose members of a Commission for Protection of Competition without having a candidate for president and without hearing?! Imagine a situation in which the vision of the President, which we would then choose, goes away with the vision of the members whom we have chosen in advance and leave them as the will of the future President of the Commission. In this sense, the decision to end the procedure is a decision around which we united almost all members of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, and this is actually my proposal and the group of MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Tsveta Karayancheva and Danail Kirilov, as well as colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The difference between the two proposals is that our proposal proposes only termination of the selection procedure of the Commission for Protection of Competition, while in the proposal of colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov there is a second solution, which is to adopt rules and launch a new procedure. I consulted with the Legal Committee in the National Assembly, Mr. Kirilov, its Chairman, the rules are approved by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and cannot be subject to such a deliberate decision of the National Assembly. In this sense, the MPs from GERB will support the decision that I and fellow MPs from the GERB group have tabled because of legal considerations, not because of something else. I fully support the thesis that the choice of the Commission for Protection of Competition should be rapid, so I propose and also support the changes in the Rules proposed by colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. That is why I propose, once today's decision is voted on, that we immediately submit rules of procedure with the relevant changes, including increasing the period of 21 days for proposals, so that we can have genuine competition and be able to choose a quality composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which is extremely important for the development of the economy and for guaranteeing competition and on the market basis in Bulgaria. Thank you. And if I may, I will read the decision, as it was not read in the report. ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the selection procedure for the President, Vice-President and members of The Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Ends the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition started by a decision of the National Assembly adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for the selection of candidates by the National Assembly adopted on 24 February 2016. 2. With regard to the opening of a new procedure for the election of a President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism within one month from the adoption of this decision to submit a draft decision adopting the rules of procedure for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. We have also heard the opinions of the importers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? The first one is Zhelyo Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have not supported both decisions in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. And now I'd like to explain to the House what we're essentially talking about right now. I admitted that I had the naiveness to really believe that GERB and the Reformation bloc wanted to change the staff and the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition. I really had that naivety. Here were very violent colleagues who spoke on these topics. What are the facts and what is the truth? On 16 September 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 16 September 2015 to 25 September 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 16 September 2015 to 25 September 2015 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2015 to 25 September 2020. This is eight months ago, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted Rules to initiate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Eight months of all kinds of procedures: failure to enter a room of decisions, entering a room, stalling, whatever you could come up with to ruin this procedure. Well, as Mr. Borisov, he hadn't spoken to Mr. Radan Kanev before. That was the motive to end the procedure. But what is it about? The truth is that to you this President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, this composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition serves you as they are ready to support any desire of Mr. Borisov and this government. And when you see canceled contracts, public procurements, and when you see the important, big contracts that are about to be concluded, you see why and you get an answer as to why this composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition will stand still for many months, because Borisov's government, the ruling majority of GERB and the Reformist bloc do not need working regulatory authorities. You need bodies that will be managed over the phone and some of the arguments of the requested referendum from several points ago, which we were looking at, it is about the inefficiency and not the work of these authorities. And now I will make one more forecast: the same thing you will repeat with the Financial Supervision Commission the other extremely important institution controlling the sector outside the banking sector. It is coming, and we should have started this procedure by now. By law, and this procedure should have started. I want to tell you that there you will repeat the same exercise, because you need those people who are there right now, because they are ready to do everything you offer them. Because what is this argument: we're going to change the rules? What do you propose that we change in the Rules of Procedure to extend the deadline? And, you see, the same composition of the National Assembly, because the composition is the same, would propose other members? Well, what has kept you from offering these members so far? I asked them in the Commission: what prevented you from making a proposal? We've made an offer. The same composition of the National Assembly will now propose other members. Yeah, well, they had the right to have non-governmental organizations offer through MPs. Well, they still could have offered them to you to submit this proposal. All this is about dragging on a month, another month, going on a summer vacation, so that this chairman, this staff can make it, as fast as possible, and solve all the questions they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Mr. Dobrev, come in for a line. Second line: "Peter Slavov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u153	Mr. Boychev, you're wrong about this speculation. You are a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and participated last year in the adoption of changes proposed by me and my colleague Martin Dimitrov of the Reformation bloc, with which we actually made possible the termination of this mandate and the election of a new composition. If we didn't want a new composition, we wouldn't have adopted these changes last year. And you yourself then supported this policy and this change. You saw what happened. There were objective reasons why we were left without a candidate for president. What is GERB's fault that no one else proposed a candidate for president of the Commission for Protection of Competition, nor any other party? And what is GERB's fault, given that the moment we saw that we had a race with a horse our candidate for president had the courage to withdraw his candidacy so that we could not be blamed for having no choice in fact and we chose this one who was proposed. [[Relations, calls from BSP LB.]] In this sense, you are not right and I ask you to behave very correctly in all your speeches or almost all your speeches, and in this case also to show such correctness and to communicate the facts as they are. I repeat once again: there would be no such procedure for the selection of a new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition if, on a proposal from GERB and the Reformation Block of me and my colleague Martin Dimitrov last year, there was no change in the Law. Thank you. This is about our will to change the composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Second line, Peter Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Boychev, the party congress I think ended that day because your speech sounded a little bit like a party forum: look at this committee, look at that committee, on the topic of the referendum, and on world peace, and on what was there - neoliberalism, or as you like it. Now, seriously on the subject. I want to bring you back really, so you say here, the Economic Commission, whose duty it is to adopt these rules of procedure had confirmed them at the end of last year, but why didn't it bring them into the Chamber, colleague Boychev? Who is the Chairman of the Economic Commission? This Commission should have brought them in "Your Economic Commission should have proposed them in the Chamber, not for a few months not to be imported into the Chamber. That's what I see. And I ask you another question: you are blaming us almost that we have supported the current composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition with an expired mandate. Let me ask you, who chose this composition? Do you remember? And who then re-elected him? And so several times. And BSP, how did you vote then? Remember? Because you chose him, and you chose him several times, and you re-elected him. And if it is true what my colleague Dobrev drew your attention to, if the Law had not been changed last year precisely on our initiative not to be able to re-elect this composition once again, I am not convinced that you from BSP would not again support it and suggest that it be re-elected again for I do not know which way, so let's really, when the facts speak, party rhetoric be silent and really call things by their real names. So if you want to be useful on the left, support these draft decisions. Let us really shorten the time limit for the introduction of the Rules of Procedure in this Chamber and for a qualitative, competitive procedure for a new composition and guidance of the Commission for Protection of Competition to be developed by the end of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line? [[BSP LB.]] Before that, Mr. Kanev. No one wants a third line. Mr. Boychev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dobrev, you're right. I also supported in the Committee on Economic Policy the proposal that the current composition of the members cannot be re-elected, but it was a proposal that it could not be re-elected. However, I would like to remind you that, by law, the Commission's mandates expired as early as last September, and that is why I am telling the fact, and it is that in the expiry of a regulatory authority, the majority's responsibility is now to do this procedure and to replace it. I do not disagree with you that the current composition cannot continue to be in the Commission, but I say that with the actions you have done since September 2015 with every passing day you are doing everything possible for them to continue to perform their functions. With what I see, it'll be a few more months ahead. Since many important public procurements are currently being distributed, as very important decisions are being made, I now see that that day and the system for tol systems has been cancelled, I am convinced that you need this right now. Regarding Mr. Slavov, the highly respected Mr. Slavov, who is a lawyer, should know how the agenda of the National Assembly is formed, in the Chamber. You may address these questions to Ms Tsetska Tsacheva and the Conference of Presidents. To you was the first part of my speech. I really thought that you want us to have a president and a working regulatory authority very quickly in this most important sector, but with what you do, you are constantly enabling the current President and the Chamber to stand. This responsibility is borne by the Reformation Bloc and GERB because the procedure was terminated February month. You stopped it in February and the argument was Borisov's speech to remind him that Radan Kanev had become angry with him. Now it's May.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u158	It's not terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u159	No, no, then you suspended, with a statement by Borisov. So the responsibility from September and after the expiry of the mandate, for all the decisions of the Commission for Protection of Competition so far, these eight months, and see what money we are talking about, what important decisions we are talking about, this responsibility is now all yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u161	You're an intelligent man. Don't fall for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u162	Yeah, thanks for the compliment. It tells me that I'm an intelligent person and I shouldn't respond to pretty much incorrect misdirections, but I think Mr. Slavov has been in this parliament for a year and a half and he's been very clear about it. Firstly, it can verify that a maximum of a week after the adoption of a decision in the Commission which I am in charge of, I have signed the protocols plus the decisions and they have entered into the case-law. Secondly, he should also know that precisely representatives of the Reformation bloc gather each Tuesday and decide what the agenda should be. Unfortunately, I say: unfortunately, I cannot influence the formation of the Parliament's agenda, so I see no logic in the accusations that I, as President of the Commission, am almost guilty of delaying the examination of our Commission's decisions. I'm sorry, but it's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. To speak, the public representative Martin Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating a very important point in Parliament's programme, namely the election of a new Commission for Protection of Competition. What are the facts? I no longer see my colleague Boychev, but from his speech I only agree with one thing that he is extremely naive. Here he was absolutely correct and right, with that I agree, from then on his statement was not true. When my colleague Delyan Dobrev and I asked for the change of composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition, we were absolutely alone at the beginning. Several times the BSP supported and reelected this composition, and they liked it. When there was to be a vote in the Commission, Mr. Boychev's colleagues, namely the new President of BSP Cornelia Ninova voted against the change of composition of the KPC against our proposal with our colleague Dobrev they cannot be re-elected. The new President of the BSP was there and voted against or abstention................................................................................... one of both but he was against our proposal. Now to come here Mr. Boychev and say that he was naive and disappointed!? He must be disappointed with the new President, who he probably voted for and has reason to be really disappointed in me. [[Laughter and excitement.]] What's important from now on? It's not just about having a fast new CDC. The important thing is that the new KPC is not like the old one, but to choose a KPC that is working, responsible to protect competition. For many years, this composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition has been strengthened by different people. Now, for the first time, a very serious breakthrough has been made. I have often criticised colleagues from GERB. In this case I say to all of you that my colleague Delyan Dobrev and I fought this battle together and it was not easy. It is now important not only to elect a new Commission, but to be competent, serious, honest and responsible people to protect competition. This should happen both quickly but within reasonable time, so that there is competition and sufficient number of applications. Therefore, Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal in my colleague Delyan Dobrev's proposal the one-year deadline for submitting the rules of procedure to be replaced by one-week, because there is no time to lose. However, the deadline for nominations should then be extended. At least 23 days. We do not decide this now, but it is important to discuss it now and to be aware that the deadline must be longer so that there can be more competition and more applications. What am I afraid of, colleagues? I fear that if a new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition is not chosen quickly and adequately enough, the investigation launched for a cartel in the market of fuels, which is mandatory, all Bulgarians have seen that there is a problem on this market and ask the question: It is not possible for an expired Commission to conduct such a key investigation. Therefore, colleagues, we will support our colleague Dobrev's proposal to end the previous procedure, because it is correct, it cannot be completed, there is no application for President, but we will insist that there is a longer period for proposals for nominations and that there are civilian applications to be submitted through MPs to ensure more competition. If we do not choose working regulators, the monopolies will continue to have huge influence in Bulgaria and to crush the Bulgarian citizens that we see now. We see more than a year in which fuel prices in Bulgaria are one of the highest in the European Union, without taxes. This shows that there is something rotten that we need a working regulator to identify and solve the problem. I call on you, colleagues, to support my colleague Dobrev's proposal, but also to ensure that there will be more competition within this procedure and we will choose a quality Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u165	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Mr. Philip Popov, after him Mr. Petar Kanev, and Mr. Kirilov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u166	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, with much of your speech I agree, only it was not properly directed towards BSP, in particular to Zhelyo Boychev, because let me ask you: who launches and stops public procurement? Whose decisions confirm this Commission? Isn't it the Prime Minister's? With regard to whom and how Mr. Boychev voted, it is his business, it is not your job to ask him here, from the National Assembly. It is obvious who has an account of the retention of this situation of the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC). This isn't BSP! It's not BSP, it's you and your coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u167	Second line, Mr. Peter Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u168	Colleagues, to make it clear between the two proposals, rather between the old procedure, which we are ending today with the rules, and the proposal of colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov and a group there are only two differences that are logical for me and it is good to accept them. One is that the deadline is extended not one week, but three weeks for submission of applications. I think it makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u169	We're not discussing this today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u170	I just want to add why I will support and I will actually propose that the deadline be one week. Let us support a one-week period, as in what the Commission will propose, only these two differences. One is this one. The second, non-governmental organizations to propose, but to be recognized and imported by MPs or parliamentary groups. That could have happened before, by the way. So there is no problem not to be the one-month term for our Commission's work to present new rules, but to be one-weekly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u171	That's the deadline for the import?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u172	Time limit for import.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u173	Third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u174	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dimitrov, in principle, I would agree with your proposal to shorten the deadline for drafting the rules for conducting the selection procedure, but I would like to put the tape back and I want you to be consistent. After you pleaded that in the previous procedure there was something I didn't know what, the rules didn't guarantee maximum racing, there weren't enough candidates, and I don't know what else wasn't, shouldn't the construction of this procedure be carefully examined? It is just as important as the nomination deadline. Sounds right and logical to me. I am also taking a line because of this, because I would like to emphasise that the previous procedure was organised in accordance with the requirements of the procedural rules and in accordance with parliamentary practice for this choice. I would also like to explicitly say and mention that the incorrect attack on this procedure has affected our candidate, a worthy candidate, a wonderful lawyer, a man we all care about. That's why I insist we be extremely careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u175	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u176	Honourable Members, only a few supplementary remarks. First, to the last line. The problem of the last procedure, honourable Members, was the one-week deadline for nominations. After all, we did not have even two applications for one place, and the Commission for Protection of Competition may be one of the most important regulatory authorities in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u177	You didn't have a candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u178	We must choose in terms of increased competition many applications to choose the most quality, honourable ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u179	So where's your application?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u180	Because Ms. Karayancheva is personally addressing me, I will seek the most worthy candidate to raise after such an appeal by colleagues from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u181	I applaud.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u182	Regarding what the BSP colleagues said. By the way, I thank them for supporting the short one-week period for bringing the procedural rules to this House. They are ready and we should add to them this reminded me that my colleague Kanev, to have a check of belonging to the State Security, as it is important that the people who are being discussed, nominated and elected, know what they are, whether they have addictions behind them and whether they will perform their duties professionally and conscientiously enough. Last but not least, in connection with my colleague Kanev's line. However, I would like to thank Boychev from the BSP, who is the only one of this party who voted together with us that the members of the KPC, the Chairman of the KPC, cannot be elected immediately for a next term. He distinguished himself from his parliamentary group, which did not support this proposal, separated himself even from his new president, who did not support this proposal and understood the meaning and logic of our text and voted for. I am only saying this to say that even in BSP there are people who follow their own views and principles, which is good for this debate and specifically for the election of a new Commission for Protection of Competition. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u183	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u184	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the debate is taking place sufficiently responsibly. I'd like to clarify what my colleagues have said. This is not about one of the most important committees in Bulgaria, but it is about the most important, honourable Members, as it is clear to all of you that you do not need to be economists that the most important advantage determining the market economy is competition. Since competition is the most important advantage of the market economy and since it is the driver of economic development, on which there is no dispute, it is therefore also the most important Commission with a runner-up, the Financial Supervision Commission. Therefore, we must be responsible enough. I will not discuss when they are elected, how they are re-elected is important under the principles of democracy. Such committees should not be elected for more than two terms. The most important thing, honourable Members, is the opposition. The term of office shall not expire in September 2015, and new members of this Commission shall be proposed in the Republic of Bulgaria for election months or years after that period has expired. As always, honourable Members, I have done my work, I have accessed the Internet, I have reviewed almost all such competition institutions in the European Union. Our colleagues and other EU member states, what are they doing? They shall choose the new Commissioners before the deadline expires, as appropriate. The Republic of Bulgaria is currently the only member state of the European Union with an unselected new leadership of its key Commission for Protection of Competition. Whatever we say, it's not a political issue. This speaks either of weakness or of the premeditation of the ruling majority, which for one reason or another has not carried out this democratic event. It doesn't matter who picked them. This is important for political debates. I join the assessments that their result is a pair, weak, because not only the society, but also the specific indicators for the ratio of gray and other economy; for the violation of market rules; for vocal and silent agreements in the sale of fuels and other goods in the Republic of Bulgaria, from which certain people benefit. We hardly have any political differences here since this Commission is ruling on key economic problems for the concentration of the market, for the market power of individual companies, for fair and unfair competition, for the position of negotiation and abuse of power. I thank my colleagues from the government, who after the long resistance gave several votes and adopted the Law on Protection of Bulgarian Producers from Trade Chains, related to the Competition Act, which was a serious problem. The problem of public procurement, which is complete anarchy and the main fault, is once again this Commission for Protection of Competition, which does not fulfil its legal commitments. There are no sectoral analyses? one of the key obligations of these committees. They haven't fulfilled their commitments. In addition, honourable Members, when we are now electing new Commissioners, I would still recommend: go on the Internet, see the other committees. Almost 70 to 30% on average is the ratio of economists and experts to industrial organizations, market structures and fellow lawmakers. In the Bulgarian Commission they are practically 100% lawyers. Where are the experts who will analyse market concentrations, sectoral analyses of the economy? So the recommendation to both the government and to us the opposition that we will participate in these discussions is to make a Commission that is balanced by economists and lawyers and meets the European standards of the tasks set. In conclusion, a major foul of those in power will expire one year, a violation of democratic rights, is a Commission on which its deadlines have long since expired. What is worse is that not only has this Commission expired its governance deadlines under the rules of democracy, but that it is functioning inefficiently and our market is severely distorted. To conclude, yes, we will support this period to be as short as possible, because the rules are clear, the question is not whether the candidates were two, or three, it is about internal party contradictions. If the candidate is good, there are no problems if he meets all the conditions. Of course, it's better to have more than one candidate. I do not know what horse you will be betting on or whether the horse died a few meters before the final, but let us take this time more seriously and as soon as possible to meet both democratic requirements and the requirements of the Bulgarian business and Bulgarian public, to have a strong Commission to meet European standards. Responsibility, I say again, is almost entirely in the hands of the rulers who determine the procedures, the rules of the game. Whatever we can from the opposition will help with a good choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u185	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u186	Madam President, honourable Members! For the last half hour, even more than 45 minutes, we are convinced of something that we are all convinced of. I suggest that we not continue in the same tone to see how good it is to do something, but ultimately to do it. The GERB group will support a reduction of the deadline to a week, as the procedural rules are really ready and there is no point in giving more time. Once voted, without the two editorial amendments that colleagues have made. I propose, including Mr. Zhelyu Boychev, who started a good debate, but, unfortunately, I do not see him in the Chamber, today or tomorrow we, together with our colleagues from the Reformation Block, together with our colleagues from BSP and Mr. Zhelyu Boychev, and Mr. Peter Kanev, and all the others who want to sign the Rules of Procedure, should do so and bring him to the Commission, who within one week to examine him and to bring him into the Chamber and to dissipate the speculations that have been made in some of the speeches the CPC did the work of the directors because it stopped orders. Colleagues, it has to be clear that the KPC doesn't stop orders. Orders shall be stopped and released by the contracting authority. The KPC shall be pronounced if there are violations, when placing or stopping orders. Speculation of the fact that the KPC is almost standing, the government is stalling because this KPC is working for them is absolutely untenable. Regarding the speech of the colleague about the chains, how GERB had given several votes, in fact the proposal in the Bill was to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, but most of her proposals were rejected and proposals were tabled by me and my fellow MPs, for which you gave several votes, so we should thank you rather for regulating the issue of chains than for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u187	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I recall that the Commission proposes that we do not support this Decision. We're voting for an unsupported project. They voted 105 MPs: 13 against 6, 86 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal on the second draft decision to end the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, made by Mr. Martin Dimitrov, supported by all the speakers after him. In the operative part of the decision in c. 2 Instead of a one-month period of adoption of this Decision on the submission of a draft rules of procedure, a one-year period shall be voted on. We vote on this proposal, which was protected by Mr. Martin Dimitrov and supported by the other speakers after him. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the full version of the draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We continue with the next item of our weekly program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TAKE THE ACT OF RECOMMENDATION No 204 OF THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE TRUDA ON A TRANSFAIR FROM UNFORMAL TO FORMAL ECONOMICS, AS REFERRED TO IN THE 104th SAME SESSION OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE OF THE TRUDA ON 12 June 2015 IN ZENENEVA. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will be presented to us by Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u188	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on adoption Draft decision-making decision by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy, Adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva, No 602-03-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2016. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 20 April 2016 discussed and discussed a draft decision to take an act from Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva. The draft decision to take an act from Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation was presented by Mr. Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He stressed that Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy was adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva in June 2015. All participants in the meeting of the International Labour Conference have taken note that the informal economy in all its aspects is a major challenge for workers' rights, including fundamental principles and working rights, as well as for social protection, good working conditions, inclusive development and rule of law. The informal economy has a negative impact on the development of sustainable enterprises, public revenues and the scope of government work, especially in relation to economic, social and environmental policies, stability of institutions and fair competition on domestic and international markets. The provisions of Recommendation No 204 create legal definitions of the concepts of the informal economy. Recommendation No 204 will be applicable to all workers and economic sites, including enterprises, entrepreneurs and households in the informal economy. In order to achieve the objective of creating quality jobs in the formal economy, Member States should formulate and implement a national employment policy in accordance with Convention No 122 of the International Labour Organisation for Employment Policy of 1964. As main priorities in the national strategies and plans for the development of the member states of the International Labour Organisation, full, dignified, effective and freely elected employment should be adopted. Member States should take measures to ensure decent work as well as to respect, promote and implement fundamental principles and rights at work for persons employed in the informal economy. Member States should take measures to ensure decent work, as well as to respect, promote and implement the basic principles and rights of the workplace for persons employed in the informal economy, in particular: - freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; effective removal of child labour; and elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and occupation. Member States must take immediate measures to address unhealthy and unsafe working conditions that often characterize work in the informal economy and promote and improve labour safety and health protection for employees and workers employed in the informal economy. With regard to the transition to a formal economy of micro and small economic sites, the recommendation to the Member States shall: - undertake reforms to start a business by reducing registration costs and the duration of the procedure by improving access to services, for example through information and communication technologies; - reduce compliance costs by introducing simplified tax assessment, insurance contributions and payment schemes; - promote access to public procurement under national law, including labour law, through measures such as adaptation of supply procedures and volumes, provision of training and consultation for those involved in public tenders, as well as fixing quotas for those economic sites; - improve access to including financial services such as lending and capital financing, payment and insurance services, savings, guarantee schemes specially designed to meet the size and needs of economic sites; - to improve access to training for entrepreneurs, to develop skills and to specially adapted business development services, and - improve access to social security. The Commission received the opinion of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. It states that the CST pays particular attention to the guidelines, measures and instruments presented in Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation of July 2015 aimed at the transition of the informal to the formal economy. According to the CNBC, Bulgaria is one of the top places in the European Union in terms of the share of the grey economy. In its report on the implementation of the Convergence Programme and the National Reform Programme, the European Commission warns that Bulgaria is losing around BGN 25 billion as a result of companies operating in the undeclared economy and made a recommendation to reduce its share. The informal economy deforms market relations and denigrates the development of human capital, leads to social dumping, unfair competition, non-compliance with basic labour and social rights and business standards and causes serious losses to public finances. It erosions democracy and the rule of law and has a negative impact on the formal economy. Therefore, the need for a transition to a formal economy comes to the fore in order not to suppress the potential, innovation and entrepreneurial initiative of those who are in the formal sector and, on the other hand, in order not to lose the jobs that have already been created. In this regard, the Confederation has submitted its requests to the government contained in their position to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. The MPs were also aware of the opinion of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In it, the employers' organization expresses its support for Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation and proposes in the decision of the National Assembly to record the specific departments that will inform the public in Bulgaria about the measures taken in the implementation of the Recommendation. In the discussion held by the MPs, the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov said that the battle with the grey economy should start from those incorrect employers who owe about 200 million levs to more than 100 000 Bulgarian workers. He finds it appropriate for this wicked practice to be changed by legislative initiatives. Dr. Hasan Ademov also expressed his opinion that there are several laws, including the Labour Code, which should be corrected in order to limit the informal economy in Bulgaria. Members of the National Assembly agreed that taking an act is a procedure whose function consists in broad information and mobilization of public opinion to adopt more effective measures at national level corresponding to the relevant international documents. Such decisions enable the National Assembly to take into account the regulations of the International Labour Organisation in future work. The taking of an act which Parliament has done more than once does not give rise to legal obligations for national authorities relating to the application of the documents in question. The recommendation has no legally binding force and is not subject to ratification by the Member States. Its texts contain guidelines for national policies, legislation and practice and have a recommended character. The recommendation may supplement a convention (or protocol) or may be adopted as an independent act. However, the fact that, according to the provisions of Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation, the Member States, as is the Republic of Bulgaria, are obliged to apply the international labour standards developed by the International Labour Organisation. At the discretion of national Parliaments and Governments and representative trade union and employers' organisations, as social partners, national policies, plans and measures must be developed to update the existing and new modern national legislation in each area of social, labour and industrial sphere. In support of the adoption of an act by Recommendation No 204 were also the arguments relating to the understanding that the informal economy is a global challenge with serious consequences for the economies of the countries, society and its participants. In Bulgarian law, the concept of undeclared work is most often associated with cases of work without a contract, work of minors without permission, activity of enterprises providing temporary work without registration in the Employment Agency, carrying out an intermediary activity by persons without registration in the Agency for Employment or the work of foreigners without complying with the permit regime for work. The main measures to deter undeclared work are: compulsory registration of employment contracts, authorisation to work for minors from the Executive Agency At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the draft decision for the adoption of an act by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva, No 602-03-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 04 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism of the Honorable Mr. Kanev. Here you go. The report is very well structured, but I will ask you in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u190	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to take an act by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Organisation on 12 June 2015 in Geneva, No 602-03-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 04 April 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 27 April 2016 examined and discussed the draft decision on the taking of an act by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation. The meeting was attended by Galab Donev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who presented the draft decision. The widespread spread of the informal economy in all its aspects is a major challenge for workers' rights. The most prominent manifestations of the informal economy are: the refusal to provide labour rights; the lack of sufficient opportunities for quality employment; inadequate social protection. In order to achieve the objective of creating quality jobs in the formal economy, Member States should formulate and implement the national employment policy in accordance with the Employment Policy Convention, No 122, and make the full, dignified, effective and freely elected employment a major goal in their national development. Through the transition to a formal economy, Member States should provide social security, maternity protection, decent working conditions and minimum wage for all workers employed in the informal economy. The necessary measures should be taken, including through preventive measures, enforcement of the law and effective sanctions, to deal with tax evasion and avoidance of social security payments, labour laws, regulations. A legal guarantee is required that those employed in the informal economy can enjoy freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. In their opinions the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry supported the draft decision. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the draft decision for the adoption of an act by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Organisation on 12 June 2015 in Geneva, No 602-03-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 04 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Kanev. I don't see an importer's opinion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor as Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation is not just a formative act. I take the floor to draw attention to you, honourable Members, that this recommendation has not taken into account yet another phenomenon which has been brewing in Bulgaria for years, and this is an extremely vicious and dangerous form of gray economy, when the Bulgarian worker and employee is working legally, with a legally-formed employment contract, but as a final result he does not receive his wage. A phenomenon that the International Labour Organisation cannot account for in its recommendation for the simple reason that this does not happen in white countries. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that a few months ago four parliamentary groups supported a bill aimed at protecting Bulgarian workers and employees by transforming the Law on guaranteeing the claims of workers and employees from companies in bankruptcy into a working law. At this point, this problem is escalating more and more. When we submitted this bill, the obligations of incorrect employers amounted to about 110 lv. Unfortunately, at this time these obligations already exceed more than 200 million. lv. That is, the legislator, all state institutions are an unwitting spectator of systematic harassment and of robbing the labor of the Bulgarian worker and employee. We have created with our inaction a new branch of the gray, not to tell the black economy when Bulgarian workers and employees work Angaria and it, notice, legally appointed. Moreover, the state becomes an accomplice because these incorrect employers, in order not to be bothered, import the insurance, import all the claims owed to the state, but forget to pay the salary. As the statement of colleague Hasan Ademov has also been marked, I would like to remind you that there has been another vicious text in the Labour Code for years, which stimulates this incorrect behaviour of incorrect employers, namely the possibility to pay only 60% of the minimum wage of the worker and employee. We will support the decision to adopt Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation, but today I appeal to all of you that it is high time that we really take this seriously. We have prepared a bill that will be tabled again, and I hope this time really is a serious attitude, not a political attitude, because the people who lost their homes for not being able to pay the loans, the people who stayed on the street, are not interested in a political solution, but are interested in a fair solution to these problems. I hope I've been understanding enough and in the future I won't miss this conversation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting on the draft decision for the adoption of an act by Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 1015 in Geneva. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in accordance with art. 19th para. 6 (b) of the Statute of the International Labour Organisation HAS DECIDED Takes an act from Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva. Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The decision's been made. Procedure? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-12.u194	Communications on parliamentary control on 13 May 2016, Friday, at 11:00: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov will answer two questions from the MPs Atanas Atanasov and Cornelia Ninova and one question from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer three questions from the people Svetoslav Belemezov, Yavor Haytov and Velizar Enchev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Georgi Bozhinov 4. Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Willy Lilkov. 5. Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev will answer one question from the MPs Manol Genov and Dimitar Dubov. 6. The Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov will answer six questions from the MPs Slavi Binev s two questions, Desislava Kostadinova, Villas Lilkov, Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. 7. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer four questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions, Boris Yachev and Vili Lilkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions by the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, and Philip Popov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, to three questions with a written answer from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov, and Nastimir Ananiev, and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from MP Stanislav Stanilov to the Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov is postponed. In the absence of the country, the parliamentary control meeting will not take part in the meeting. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev. Due to previous commitments, the Deputy Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting; the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; and the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. Due to international meetings, the Deputy Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy in resignation Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin; Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov; Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva; and Minister of Health Petar Moskov. The next regular plenary session of the Forty- Third National Assembly is tomorrow, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
