ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable colleagues, the terrorist attack at Istanbul's Ataturk Airport, which resulted in dozens of innocent victims and wounded civilians, is another brutal act against freedom and peace. Bulgaria strongly and decisively condemns another barbaric attack. There is no excuse for such monstrous violence against innocent people. At this difficult time, which has shaken not only the Turkish side, but the whole world, let us express our most sincere human empathy and solidarity. We all in Bulgaria deeply mourn the innocent victims of this great tragedy. We are sure that this act will double the energy of the institutions, of civil society and of the world democratic public for an even more uncompromising fight against terrorism. Let's bow our heads and with a minute of silence honor the memory of the innocent! [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Honourable Members, allow me to inform you that the Conference of Presidents has decided that the specialized committees to challenge a hearing of the competent and responsible authorities in order to clarify what measures have been taken, taken and will be taken in connection with the protection of the security of the Bulgarian citizens. We are now moving on to the Programme Project, which was discussed at this morning's Chairmanial Council. We offer you the following: PROGRAM for the week's work for 29 June 1 July 2016 1. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition by the National Assembly. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 19 May 2016. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 17 July 2016. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, 24 June 2016. 4. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 10 June 2016. 5. The bill for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 16 June 2016. This is proposed to be the first item for our work on Thursday, 30 June 2016. 6. First vote on the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 13 April 2016. The point is proposed to be second for Thursday 30 June 2016. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Associations for Irrigation. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 13 May 2016. Adopted in first vote on 27 May 2016. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 8 April 2016, adopted at first vote on 20 April 2016. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 25 March 2016, adopted at the first vote on 13 May 2016. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 15 June 2016. The proposal is that this should be the first point for Friday, 1 July 2016. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, which is a joint project drawn up by the Commission on Agriculture and Food on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 17 March 2016 with importers: Petar Petrov and a group of MPs, 23 January 2015; Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs, 13 May 2015; the Council of Ministers, 7 January 2016 12. A summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2013, a summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2014 and a summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2015. An importer is the Supreme Judicial Council, respectively, on 15 December 2014, 27 May 2016 and 7 June 2016. 13. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2014 and Report on the application of the Law and on the activities of the courts in 2015. Import is the Supreme Judicial Council, 27 May 2016 and 7 June 2016. 14. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2014 and Report on the application of the law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2015. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council, 5 August 2015 and 13 June 2016. 15. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014. The same report is also for 2015. Imported is the Supreme Judicial Council, on 27 May 2015 and on 7 June 2016. 16. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please vote on your proposed agenda. Vote 139 MPs: 123, against 2, abstention 14. Our program for work in the current week has been accepted. Messages of bills and draft decisions received from 22 June 2016 to 28 June 2016: On 22 June 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the accompanying committees: the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works is local self-government, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 22 June 2016, a draft declaration of the 43rd National Assembly for refusal of hostilities between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation was received. Importer is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and to the Committee on Defence. On 23 June 2016, a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 24 June 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code was adopted. Importers are Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. On 27 June 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Health. Allow me to introduce you to the proposals for inclusion in the agenda under art. 50, para. 3. There is a proposal received by the National Representative Velizar Enchev, who proposes for discussion a draft declaration on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the acquittal of Sergey Antonov, unjustly accused of the attack on Pope John Paul II, to enter the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 29 June to 1 July 2016. Mr. Enchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today, when we pay tribute to the victims of the terrorist attacks in Istanbul, let us also pay tribute to another victim of the world terrorism to the Bulgarian citizen Sergey Antonov, who received his acquittal 30 years ago. This event happened exactly a month ago. I propose the following Declaration of the 43rd National Assembly on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the acquittal of Sergey Antonov, unjustly accused of the assassination of Pope John Paul II: On 29 March 2016, 30 years of Sergei Antonov's acquittal on a fabricated charge of involvement in the assassination of Pope John Paul II, one of the greatest mystifications of the past century. In the heat of the Cold War Bulgaria was involved in a process in which the Bulgarian citizen Sergey Antonov was a scapegoat. There is no longer any doubt that behind Ali Agja, the direct perpetrator of the attack on the head of the Roman Catholic Church, is the terrorist organization of the Grey Wolves. Sergey Antonov was acquitted by a Roman court after nearly four years of arrest, and at no time broke and confessed to his nonexistent guilt. His innocence was also confirmed by Pope John Paul II himself, who on his visit to our country in 2002 admitted that he never believed in the Bulgarian trail. As his lawyer said, Professor of Constitutional Law Giuseppe Consolo: "Sergey Antonov is the conscience of people who still believe that justice exists in this world. The 43rd National Assembly expresses its deep appreciation to Sergey Antonov for his dignified conduct during the trial and believes that justice will never sacrifice truth and justice again. This is the text of the Declaration. I hope that this time we will put aside our party differences and pay tribute to a man who did everything for Bulgaria, but Bulgaria did nothing for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Velizar Enchev to include the proposed draft declaration in our weekly programme. They voted 132 MPs: 50, Against 9, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u4	I'm asking for a re-vote. Obviously, the honourable MPs have not understood that I am not offering for an award with an order, but I propose that the Bulgarian Parliament pay tribute to a man who has become a victim of the Cold War. This is a small part of our appreciation for the Bulgarian Parliament to honor Sergey Antonov, the innocent victim of the Cold War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. It's a re-vote. Vote 128 MPs: 50, against 7, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Stoyan Mirchev. It proposes to include for the period from 29 June to 1 July 2016 a bill amending the Law on pre-school and school education, No 654-01-11, submitted on 4 February 2016 by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We take advantage of the procedure under art. 50, para. 3 and we propose for inclusion on the agenda of the National Assembly ZID of the Law on pre-school and school education. This is necessary for two reasons. The first is not related to the nature of the proposed bill submitted by us half a year ago, but because for this period it did not find its place on the agenda of the portfolio committee, and that is provided that during the last two months the meetings were not regular. There was a time, a desire, obviously not. We have been deprived of our views and arguments as to why a one-year extension of the Law is needed, which should start acting on 1 August this year, and is already causing so many problems. Debate on one of the most up-to-date topics for society, such as education, is denied. The second reason is the Law on preschool and school education itself. We are constantly witnessing scandals in the field of education: the tension that is born from the haste in the creation of regulations; the scandals around the dropouts of Bulgarian authors; the chaos of the inability to create adequate textbooks for I and V class. The children will start in one way, but they will end the year by another. These are just the first symptoms of the dangers we talked about in the adoption of the Law. However, everyone in this room is aware that the state cannot afford to pay PR shares in the Arena Armeec Hall for more than half a million leva each month. Colleagues, I appeal to you with a request to include on the agenda proposals from us a Bill to postpone with one year of the entry into force of the Preschool and School Education Act. Let different opinions be heard on this issue in a debate here in the National Assembly, where it belongs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Stoyan Mirchev for inclusion in the Programme of proposals by him Draft. They voted 127 MPs: for 30, against 71, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not see why the entire educational community in secondary school should be held hostage by some rational behavioral stereotypes in the executive power and in the legislative body.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u9	Mr. Zablyanov, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u10	There's no need for students to suffer. You and I have all experienced a change of education system several times while we were at school. Let us vote from this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. It's a re-vote. They voted 127 MPs: 37 against 68, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov, who proposes as a point in the weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 29 June. " 1 July 2016 to include the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted on 14 October 2015 by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose for inclusion in the Weekly Programme Second Voting of the Draft Law amending the Family Aid Act for Children. Your subject is well known, and I'm not going to develop it. I will just mention that it concerns the size of the monthly supplement for raising a child with disability and binding it to the minimum wage for the country. The same monthly supplement, which is currently 240 BGN. and is frozen for the second time in a second consecutive budget of the levels reached by the Oresharski cabinet. Two and a half months ago, on April 15th, after a serious and consistent insistence by BSP left Bulgaria, the National Assembly adopted this bill in the first vote, which, just to remind us, had already been tabled on October 14, 2015. Let's do our work to the fullest. I very much hope you'll support me. I'll give you some more arguments. I think the National Assembly has matured for this proposal. We need to be fair to people with disabilities, to families who raise children with disabilities. Let's finally show some attitude towards those parents who have hired to look after their children with disabilities instead of leaving them in some establishment. We won't solve their problems, but give them a breath of air. Secondly, the parents of disabled children are waiting for this decision. I assume you remember their protests on April 7th this year in front of the National Assembly. A number of people's meetings and a number of governments are huge debtors to these people. I think the debate is unnecessary. What we are proposing is insufficient, but it is still a step in the right direction. Thirdly, following the adoption of this First Voting Bill, a number of proposals have been made which have been addressed in the leading Commission. In the name of consensus, some of them have been withdrawn, others have been rejected. After all, almost complete unanimity has been reached, that is, we have a report on a second vote adopted by all parties represented in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Fourth, there is support from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, confirmed categorically by Deputy Minister Sacheva at the Commission meeting. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Glauchev, 10 more seconds. Fifthly, it is envisaged that the bill will enter into force from 1 January so that it does not affect this year's budget in any way and does not impose its adjustment. Sixth, the second vote report is of two incomplete pages and its inclusion in the weekly Programme will not disrupt the intended rhythm of work. There's consensus. The report is short, 15 minutes of parliamentary time. Please support its inclusion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov. They voted 126 MPs: 44, against 33, abstentioned 49. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think there's some misunderstanding. The report is ready, the decision is consensual "It will not take more than 15 minutes of parliamentary time. Wherever we include it in Parliament's weekly agenda, we won't go wrong. People expect it from us. And it is in connection with the call of the President of the National Assembly Mrs Tsacheva from last week to do her job and to look at the submitted bills between the first and second votes in order not to hinder the work of the National Assembly. Here, the work is done - all we have to do is finalise it with one vote in plenary. Support him. Please solve this problem once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. It's a re-vote. They voted 129 MPs: 44, against 30, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the decision of the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly of this morning for the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova is a matter of concern, given what is happening in Sofia, but as a member of the Internal Commission, the Commission for Control of the Services can assure you that we have attended dozens of hearings of Mrs Bachvarova in both committees in the light of the serious situation both with organised crime and with domestic crime and with the threats of terrorism. These hearings did not result in any results. Mrs. Bachvarova was heard here in the Chamber of the National Assembly only a week ago, as a result of which a partial experiment was conducted yesterday, where witnesses were arrested spectacularly in front of the stunning Norwegians and tourists. If this is a professional job, say hello! Not only Mrs. Bachvarova, the head of the Regional Directorate of Police, the head of the Regional Police Department in the Ministry of Interior, Sunny Beach, in Nessebar, and yet these, forgive me, confusion. The prime minister seems to have enough information ahead of him, as he said yesterday that the group, which carried out a half-hour shooting on the streets of Sofia, was followed long ago. At the very beginning, in the election of Mrs. Bachvarova, we said that the actual Minister of Interior is the Prime Minister. Obviously, he must be fully responsible, so I am making a procedural proposal in plenary to invite the Prime Minister to give information about what is happening in Bulgaria, how the services for which he is directly responsible, how the DANS works, how the Ministry of Interior works and how he deals with all the commitments that are entrusted under the Law of this Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u18	Otherwise, next week we will be witnessing a similar shooting, similar deaths and similar inconclusive actions by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. We'll get in touch with the Prime Minister and give him your wish. Moving on to point one: SELECTION OF A PRESENTOR, A RESPONSIBILANT AND COMMISSION MEMBERS TO PROTECT THE CONCURENCE FROM PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Before you are acquainted with the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, let me introduce you to the rules of procedure which we have adopted as the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition by the National Assembly: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Vice-President and the five members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When one of the candidates for the respective position refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of that position. 10. If there is no candidate for any of the posts, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. The decision was adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly on 19 May 2016. You have the floor, Mrs. Saveklieva, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, before that I would like to do a procedure on the grounds of art. 46, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be admitted to the Chamber of Applicants. These are: Yulia Nenkova, Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Anna Yaneva, Georgi Ganev, Georgitza Stoyanova, Kiril Doichinov, Krasimir Vitanov, Krasimir Zafirov, Nikolay Ilchev, Plamen Kirov and Stamen Gerbelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u21	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Daniela Saveklieva. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The Quaestors, please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To your attention, I present a report on the hearing of candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition: At its meeting held on 22 June 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Candidates for President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Applicants in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. At the beginning of the meeting, the chairman of the commission Petar Kanev noted that the submitted documents show that the proposed candidates meet the requirements of the Law on Protection of Competition for the posts for which they were proposed, as well as the requirement of Section III of the Rules of Procedure for preliminary examination under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and should be allowed to be heard. For Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition Julia Racheva Nenkova has been nominated. The candidacy of Julia Nenkova, proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MP GERB MPs for Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, was presented by the MP Danail Kirilov. Julia Nenkova is a lawyer with extensive professional and administrative experience. In her professional development she has held senior state positions as director of the Directorate of Legal and Deputy Mayor of Sofia Municipality with portfolio of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. From 2010 until now Ms. Nenkova is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. He has extensive experience in the field of administrative law, administrative process and public procurement procedures. With its excellent legal preparation and organizational qualities as well as its high moral qualities, Julia Nenkova meets the requirements of the Law on Protection of Competition for President of the Commission for Protection of Competition. As Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, Dimitar Ivanov Kyumurdzhiev has been nominated. The candidacy of Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, proposed by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs from the PG of the Patriotic Front was presented by the MP Krasimir Karakachanov. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev is a lawyer with more than 30 years of legal internship, of which more than 5 years as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition in the period 1997 - 2003. As a member of the KPC and as a lawyer Mr. Kyumyrdzhiev has experience in the implementation of antitrust legislation and public procurement. He is a lecturer in competition law and state aid control in Bulgaria. He has actively participated in the pre-accession period in harmonizing our legislation with European Union law. He was the head of the negotiating head of the Board of Appeal and State Aids. He is the author of over 20 scientific publications on antitrust regulation issues. The candidates of Anna Georgieva Yaneva, Georgitsa Petrova Stoyanova, Georgi Yordanov Ganev, Kiril Boykov Doichinov, Krasimir Georgiev Vitanov, Krasimir Yordanov Zafirov, Nikolay Ilchev Iliev, Plamen Veselinov Kirov and Stamen Vladimirov Gyrbelov are nominated as members of the Competition Protection Commission. The candidacy of Anna Yaneva, proposed by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, was presented by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. He pointed out that Anna Yaneva has many years of experience in local self-government. He has professional experience in privatisation and post-privatization control as a member of the Supervisory Board at the Sofia Municipal Privatization Agency. Twice she was Deputy Minister with a portfolio of the economy in the Ministry of Economics. Under its leadership, there is a policy to promote investment, stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, the management of state property and natural resources and concessions. Georgita Stoyanova's candidacy, proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs from the Political Party GERB, was presented by the MP Daniela Saveklieva. Georgiza Stoyanova has legal education. Her entire professional career is related to the public sector. Director of the Directorate in Blagoevgrad Municipality, from lawyer to director of the Directorate in the Ministry of Defence, Sofia Administrative Court. He has extensive experience in the field of public procurement and concessions, bond and commercial law. She has participated in the preparation, coordination and day-to-day implementation of a number of regulations relating to the protection and conditions for the expansion of competition and the free initiative in business. Georgi Ganev was nominated by the Centre for Liberal Strategies and proposed to a member of the Commission by Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. His application was presented by the MP Martin Dimitrov. Georgi Ganev is an economist, a longtime lecturer at Sofia University and head of the economic program of the Foundation Center for Liberal Strategies. Dr. Ganev is well known not only in the academic circles in Bulgaria, but also internationally by the partners of Bulgaria in the European Union. Georgi Ganev with his expertise and public image can be useful both for the work of the Commission and for a favorable future development of the competitive environment in Bulgaria. Kiril Doichinov, proposed by the independent MP Musa Palev, was presented by the latter. Kiril Doichinov is a lawyer. In the period 2005 - 2009 he worked at the KPC in expert positions. His subsequent experience is in the Road Infrastructure Agency, in the municipality of Isperih and the municipality of Panagyurishte. Currently he is a legal consultant in a consulting company and at the same time he is the manager of Er G Consulting Limited Ltd., Sofia. Sofia. Since 2009, he has been listed as an external expert on the list of the Public Procurement Agency and has participated in over 300 evaluation committees. He has extensive experience in implementing the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on concessions. Krasimir Vitanov's candidacy, proposed by Nikola Hadzhiyski and a group of MPs from the Reformation Bloc, was presented by MP Nikola Hadzhiyski. He pointed out the professional experience of Krasimir Vitanov in the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Bulgartransgaz. The professional development of Mr. Vitanov, in particular his expertise in the field of public procurement and the years of management experience in various state institutions, make him suitable for the position of member of the KPC. The same enjoys a good name in society, striving for improvement and with the possibility of fast entry into a new professional sphere for him. Krasimir Zafirov's candidacy is a proposal from Dr. Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - National Union and was presented by the MP Chavdar Peychev. Krasimir Zafirov is a lawyer from the Sofia Bar Association with professional experience in the field of civil, commercial and administrative law. He has solid experience in cases under the Public Procurement Act. He is a proven professional in corporate and competitive law. He has held a procedural representation in the cases of different clients against attempts to impose a monopoly by competitors in the industry. His name is not related to corruption schemes and scandals. Krasimir Zafirov has the necessary professional and moral qualities, enjoys a good name and trust in society and for these reasons the Commission for Protection of Competition, Society and Business needs people such as Krasimir Zafirov. Nikolay Ilchev is a proposal of Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs from the ABB Parliamentary Group. His candidacy was presented by the MP Kiril Tsochev. Nikolay Ilchev is a practicing lawyer with years of work experience and experience in the specialty. From 2000 to 2006 he worked as a legal consultant in Since 2006 he has been listed in the register of the Bar Association Veliko Tarnovo. Practices in the field of civil, tax, trade, property and energy law, public procurement. He also has extensive experience in the implementation of procedural representation and in cases of insolvency proceedings, order proceedings and enforcement proceedings. Professor. Dr. Plamen Kirov, proposed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Mustafa Karadayi's Movement for Rights and Freedoms, was presented by the MP Ferihan Ahmedova. Plamen Kirov combines high theoretical training with broad practical skills in the field of legal science and regulation. Professor of Law of Sofia and Veliko Tarnovo University. It is used with impeccable reputation among lecturers and students. Actively involved in the development of a number of government-related bills. He worked in the Central Election Commission, in the Presidential Administration as legal secretary and chair of the Legal Council. Constitutional Judge in the period 2006 - 2015. He is currently representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Venice Commission for Democracy through Law. The candidacy of Stamen Gerbelov, proposed by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Svetlin Tanchev. Stamen Grbelov holds higher legal and higher economic education. Since 2008, he has been working in the Commission for Protection of Competition, growing consistently from a junior expert to director of the Directorate. He has demonstrated his professional qualities as a lawyer who knows the legal framework and has in-depth knowledge in the field of competition law, the practice of the KPC and the Supreme Administrative Court. The candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the KPC presented their concepts of the Commission's activities to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Julia Neykova, a candidate for President of the Commission, outlined his views on the opportunities and tools that the current legal framework gives the KPC; future legislative changes to facilitate the work of the Commission; set priorities for his future work. It considers that the biggest challenge facing the new composition of the KPC is to ensure efficiency in the Commission's activities with regard to the fight against prohibited agreements and abuses of a monopoly and dominant position. Anticompetitive behaviours and practices are not only one of the most severe distortions of competition on the market, but also the most difficult to detect and proven. In order to achieve the desired success in collecting the necessary evidence, their surprising effect on the undertakings examined must be ensured. According to her, the introduction of criminal responsibility for involvement in cartels could be debated in order to increase the overall prevention of this type of offence. In order to strengthen the dissuasive effect of prohibited agreements and to ensure the protection of consumers and competitors, it is important to strengthen the role of so-called private competition law enforcement. In order to prevent certain participants from taking over the market, it would be appropriate to consider the legislative implementation and subsequent application of the The KPC should maintain its role as a partner in cooperation with competition authorities from the Member States of the European Union. The KPC, as a well-functioning and effective competition authority, must be distinguished by: clear strategy and specific performance indicators; possibility of prioritizing cases; use of the entire range of legal means; ensuring a balance between the independence of the body and its accountability to the National Assembly; maintaining a high expert level of administration. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, a candidate for Vice-President of the Commission, considers that the KPC in its current activity does not have priority control and countering cartel agreements, abuse of leadership, and does not actively influence the market and assessment of the concentration of business. A radical change in the organisation of the specialised administration of the regulator is needed in order to actually address problems related to the detection of the most nasty distortions of competition, such as cartel distortions and abuse of dominant position. The KPC is particularly passive in terms of the use of art. 50 of the Law on Protection of Competition. It will insist on strengthening the function of KPC members; strengthening the possibility of carrying out the so-called sector-based analyses of sensitive sectors; changing the methodology by which the economic concentration is determined. In connection with the criminal liability for a cartel agreement, Mr. Kyumurdzhiev noted that it is extremely dangerous to allow the prosecution to assess who is involved in a cartel agreement in the presence of a sector regulator, which has these powers. Candidates for members of the KPC also presented their concepts. Anna Yaneva pointed out the need to set up an economic analysis unit in the committee; to carry out continuous monitoring of significant and sensitive sectors for consumers and businesses; to give a non-controversial ruling on complaints with identical or similar cases; preliminary control of complaints received, not direct proceedings; to establish clear rules on unfair competition; to introduce the principle of accidental distribution of proceedings between members of the KPC; to analyse the decisions of the committee appealed to the SAC; to analyse the possibility of overcoming the different legislative decision regarding the appeal of concessions; active information policy. Georgitza Stoyanova presented the main priorities for the work of the Commission: effective countering the prohibited agreements and abuses of a monopoly or dominant position; the active participation of the KPC in the process of drafting and coordinating regulations; effective control of concentrations between undertakings; speed and effectiveness of complaints against decisions, actions and omissions of contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act; the establishment of a constant and non-controversial practice of the Commission with a view to issuing the same result on identical cases; active international cooperation within the framework of the European and the International Competition Network; development of administrative capacity. She paid particular attention to the proposal of some of the other candidates for the distribution of files on a random basis. The introduction of such a principle into the KPC would lead to the replacement of legislative will on the way it adopts its acts. The decision of the legislator KPC to adopt its decisions collectively has an anti-corruption effect and is a guarantee of objectivity and impartiality of its decisions. According to Georgi Ganev, the importance of competition for the development of society is based on its benefit for two main groups in society. These are consumers of goods and participants in the process of producing these goods. The Commission will benefit significantly from the establishment of a particular economic analysis unit, which not only supports well-known sector" analyses, but to deepen its ability to understand business processes in the country. The Commission's close liaison with colleagues from other Member States of the European Union and the European Commission will also be of key importance. There is a need for a significant increase and prioritization of the Commission's relationship with society as a whole, represented by both business and media organisations and NGOs. Kiril Doychinov commented on the following more important issues: carrying out continuous control by carrying out surveys on all real markets and establishing legally prohibited agreements; lack of confidence in the KPC on the exemption from sanction; introduction of criminal liability for cartels; carrying out real on-the-spot checks in enterprises and seizure of information that can prove the existence of prohibited agreements; carrying out effective checks on branch organizations; eliminating the controversial practice of the commission; working to minimise the existing weaknesses............................................................................................................................................................................................................. According to Krasimir Vitanov, in carrying out the task of ensuring and monitoring compliance with national and European antitrust law, the KPC should actively monitor and carry out an analysis of significant and significant sectors of the economy for consumers and businesses. The KPC should actively investigate and analyse any suspected misuse of a cartel agreement between competing undertakings. It is also necessary to promote the regulated in art. 101 of the Law on Protection of Competition a special procedure for exemption from sanction or reduction of penalties. To achieve speed and efficiency in studies on complaints against decisions, actions and omissions of contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act and the decisions of the bodies under art. 83 of the Law on concessions. According to Krasimir Zafirov, the KPC now has no capacity to carry out market analyses because it combines the functions of a law enforcement body with a special jurisdiction, and it takes away its administrative capacity. There is no evidence of dialogue with stakeholders in the preparation of the committee's priorities. The priorities in the activities of the KPC are: creating an information environment, with relevant databases on indicators for monitoring with a view to initiating proceedings; improving coordination with the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers; assessing compliance with the rules of competition of regulations specifically aimed at business; uniformising the practice of implementing the Public Procurement Act and the Law on concessions; periodicity and publicity of cases; uniform criteria for imposing a temporary measure; stopping the procedure and for making preliminary implementation of the decisions under appeal; suspending certain practices that contradict the letter and the idea of the law; improving the organisation of the administration of the commission. According to Nikolai Ilchev, the KPC should take effective and careful use of the opportunity to free certain agreements from bans. With the introduction of the new ban on abuse of a stronger position in negotiations, Bulgarian competition law has become stricter than European Union standards. The KPC is obliged to quickly apply this provision in order to meet public expectations. The fight against market abuse should not be directed against business. Businesses with a dominant position should only be punished if they abuse it. The main problem in the work of the KPC, which is noticed from the outside, is within the time limits for solving the files, especially for those on which unfair competition must be proved. There is no use of the possibility for the KPC to join in the fight against corruption. An analysis of the reasons why the SAC returns or cancels decisions of the KPC is necessary in order for it to bring out errors in the law enforcement of the KPC. According to Plamen Kirov the Bulgarian legislation in the field of competition, public procurement and concessions is good. The strongest means of impacting the competitive environment in business life are sectoral analyses. Therefore, the KPC should carry out such activities on a case-by-case basis where there is doubt that competition in a sector or industry is limited or distorted. The competition law allows for prior collection of evidence by means of on-the-spot checks. This is one way to increase sharply the effectiveness of competition protection and free economic initiative. It is appropriate to take initiatives to promote competition rules as well as initiatives to appeal public procurement procedures and grant concessions. According to Stamen Gerbelov, discussing some changes in both the Law on Protection of Competition and other acts relating to its application would be useful for the future work of the Commission. Some of the prohibitions on unfair competition should be refined; the control over the immediate implementation of decisions of the Commission; the rules on access to materials representing commercial secrecy; the award and acceptance of expertise, the grounds for termination of proceedings, etc. The most important activities to be developed by the new KPC are the application of Leniency; the disclosure of tender manipulations in the context of the more effective implementation of antitrust regulations; the implementation of good European and international practices; the attracting of qualified employees and improving the success of the Commission's decisions before the US; the improvement of cooperation with other state institutions and NGOs. In the discussion were asked the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Dimitar Bajraktarov. The candidates answered the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly in depth and in full, as well as those asked in accordance with art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives and the Journal of Capital. Following the hearing, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism found that the applicants met the requirements of the Law on Protection of Competition and the Rules of Procedure for taking up the respective position for which they were proposed. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the applications of Yulia Nenkova, Dimitar Kyumurdjiev, Anna Yaneva, Georgi Ganev, Kiril Doichinov, Krasimir Vitanov, Krasimir Zafirov, Nikolay Ilchev, Plamen Kirov and Stamen Gerbelov, for which a draft decision for each candidate for the respective position applies to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. My fellow Members, this was the Commission's report. According to the rules of procedure adopted, a discussion is followed under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. A draft law at first reading, each parliamentary group has a set limit of time, and then we will vote separately on draft decisions for the election of President, Vice-President, plus five other regular members. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. The candidates shall be represented by the Commission. From the report we found out the biographies and positions of the candidates. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I had the attitude to present Dr. Georgi Ganev's candidacy, but since there will be no introduction in the plenary, in the form of a statement I will say the things I wanted to say. I think we all realize that today is an important day for competition and for the market economy in Bulgaria. Whether it will be a good day for the market economy, for consumers in Bulgaria we will find out from the vote that will follow. In a few words, I will present Dr. Georgi Ganev's candidacy, and I want to make it very clear that it is the candidacy of my colleagues from the Reformation Block. This is the candidacy of the Reformation bloc so that there are no doubts or misunderstandings in the vote. Although he was promoted as the only civilian candidate by the Centre for Liberal Strategies with President Mr. Ivan Krastev, whom we all know very well, Dr. Ganev's candidacy was supported by some of the most authentic Bulgarian non-governmental organizations, the Institute for Market Economics, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Center for the Study of Democracy, not to list them all. Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is the only civilian application proposed under the new procedure, in the way that we have amended against the failed old procedure. In other words, the non-governmental sector nominated Mr. Ganev. Representatives of five of the six parties having MPs in the bloc's parliamentary group are contributors, including the civil quota in my face, in the face of colleague Martin Dimitrov and the other colleagues. We recognized this application as our own and brought it in. We're convinced she deserves support. I hardly need to say that Mr. Ganev was never a party member. His profile is strictly civil. He is a long-standing lecturer in macroeconomics at Sofia University, one of the respected Bulgarian macroeconomicists. I am particularly pleased to say a few good words about him, because it is not every day that I have the opportunity to propose, to nominate someone for something even less, and every day I am not given the opportunity to offer your attention, honourable colleagues, to a member of this so important regulator, who is a PhD student, Nobel laureate. If you don't know, Professor. Douglas North was the scientific director of Dr. Ganev when he was preparing his Ph.D. at Washington University/Washington University. Dr. Ganev is a member of the Governing Council and Chairman of the Bulgarian Macroeconomic Association in 2005. Colleagues, I'm saying this because when we review the candidates, it makes the impression that we're pre-electing candidates with a legal profile. In practice, there are only two economists who are candidates for a member of the KPC, of which only one of whom is Dr. Ganev, is a person who has really worked professionally on the production of macroeconomic models, on iconometry and so on, things extremely important in analyzing, testing competition, analysis for cartels, all the things we expect this Commission to do. To tell you the truth, I really ask myself, if the composition is formed, even the two macroeconomicists are selected, plus the other colleagues, will the capacity of economists in this composition of the CPC be sufficient? Not to mention, if the Commission is left with no economists. I'll say one more thing in the end. Once again, I would like to point out, fellow Members, that this is the candidacy of the Reformation Block. In the vote, I will undoubtedly support other prestigious candidates, such as the candidacy of colleagues from the Patriotic Front, a person who was a member of the KPC in a previous term, a person with proven scientific publications, such as Mr. Kyumurdzhiev. I will tell you, however, that I cannot support applications which, evidently from their CVs, have convincing threes when studying law in the most important legal disciplines, including a threesome on a state exam. I'm sorry, but I won't support such candidates. I will not support candidates who, when most of us protested against the outrage of the Oresharski cabinet along with civil society on the street, were at the same time making a ambitious career at the top of state companies. In this case, I refer specifically to Bulgartransgaz. You remember very well what problems there were with the interconnectors, with slowing things that we are now trying to catch up on. I can't support such candidates, and I hope you won't support them either. This would be practically disrespectful is a weak word, I would rather say, a mockery of the people on the street who came out on 14 June 2014 to protest against the Oresharski cabinet, thanks to which protests were largely possible for this Parliament to happen significantly earlier than perhaps would have happened at all. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] Oresharski could be in charge right now. It is very important to whom, in this case, I would say, who are we voting for today, because the consequences will be borne for years and people will ask questions: What's going on with the fuel again? The prices on the international markets are decreasing, in Bulgaria are rising. Is that pre-emptive, or how do people understand it? The KPC has been silent and analyzing, and it has been for years. If you want to stop this thing and really, so to speak, to return the country to the people, the road begins, I would say, from here and to a large extent today. This may be the most important regulator in the country's economy. If we consider it another choice in which we choose some people, some of them largely anonymous, then we will all have to live with these consequences and respond to our voters why, when we can change something in the country, in this regulator, in the fight against cartels, in the lack of competition, in the disadvantaged consumers, we have done nothing, and perhaps we have resorted to quick and easy again, I do not know how to call them party arrangements to ensure that there is yet another choice. Colleagues, this is not another choice. This is a very important choice of perhaps the most important regulator, I repeat once again, and I appeal to support worthy candidates, among whom Dr. Georgi Ganev is undoubtedly the candidate of the Reformation bloc. Let today be a really good day for the Bulgarian market economy and for Bulgarian consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. You're welcome, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Having allowed colleague Slavov to speak by presenting one of the candidates, my question is as follows: how will the equality of all other candidates be guaranteed? We said there would be no re-enactment after we heard the detailed report of the Economic Commission. My question specifically to you is this: does it mean that all the importers of proposals that nominate candidates should re-submit our applications?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. My interpretation is that when a debate happens...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u28	This is not a debate. He said the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u29	I told her other things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u30	... each MP has his own point of view and subjectivity to be able to interpret in this case some of the candidates as a whole, as well as the sector that will regulate this Commission. I followed Mr. Slavov very carefully, and my answer is: the free will of every MP is to interpret, say, the qualities of one, two, third or eleven candidates. Thank you. Next statement? Mr. Dimitrov, still consider Mr. Kirilov's comment. Where possible, a view to the work of the Commission and candidates as a whole. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u31	Dear Mr. President, I understood Mr. Kirilov and his statement as a call for the debate to go on the ground, but I saw that there were no other speeches, and in essence a few important things need to be said. The Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC) is the most important regulator, colleagues, and somehow it is not right without debate to quickly elect the next members, President and Vice-President of the Commission. I would like to start by saying that we and colleague Slavov asked for the replacement of the entire composition of the KPC, that is, if we had not done it, we had not recorded it in the Law and colleagues like Delyan Dobrev had not supported us, now there would not be a change of the entire composition of the Commission. Why did we ask for it? Because we didn't see the necessary efficiency and results that we hope the next KPC will produce.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u32	He's running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u33	I am talking about the entire Commission, honourable Members. We hope that the most important question will be the next committee to be much more effective in its work than what has been achieved so far. That is why we have practically given up the promotion of party candidates, and we have been full of such proposals. You can't imagine how many ideas for party applications were around us, but we said so: we will offer a person to whom no one can call him and tell him what action to take and what to do. For this reason, we have invited NGOs to issue their own applications. Unfortunately, there is only one such application. We hoped more NGOs (engios), would offer their representatives and today parliament would be able to choose between many candidates from NGOs. We have one, and this is Georgi Ganev's candidacy, raised by four authoritative NGOs. I'll tell you what's bothering me today. Ladies and gentlemen, it concerns me whether the figure of the independent expert, to whom no one can call and tell him how to act, what to do, what to do, who is independent in his actions, whether this figure will disturb part of the Bulgarian Parliament. I'm being as honest as I can, and I'm saying it directly. The figure of the person who comes from the non-governmental sector and who has shown with his life his career that he is acting objectively, fairly and independently. You know, I wish that there would be such people in the future Commission for Protection of Competition, because this way we will change Bulgaria with one, two, three such, but this is how the desired change occurs with people who will not get involved and engage in inappropriate practices, will not exert undue pressure. Most importantly, I wanted to and it is good that there is such a application that mathematically andconometrically can investigate and verify the presence of a cartel in the fuel market. Don't you think that at least one such person should be in the future Commission? Cartel means a coincidence of prices, among other things. This is proven by complex econometric models. Don't you think that at least one person should be able to collect the data, sit down and do the bill, and see if there are prices that move together where there is a match, or there are none on the fuel market, and look for the reasons for such coincidences in price policy? Ladies and gentlemen, as we have asked for the replacement of the KPC, I am now asking you............................ here, as usual there are party arrangements and bargaining, I am sure. As soon as I look at some of my colleagues, it's clear to me that this job is already done. We know we know... even someone is confessing right now. It is a matter of choosing the future KPC, of making it responsible enough, and of choosing the people who did the best, who have the best biography that independent expertise has, and who, most importantly, know that they will make honest and responsible decisions. That's why I'm calling you. In this sense, we cannot stand behind people who have prevented Bulgaria, say, or were part of the management of Oresharski, we cannot support such people, we simply cannot, if we want the KPC to work otherwise, if we want the KPC to work as it has done so far, there is no point in making the change. If we want a new way of working, we must choose people whose authority no one has any doubt who have proven themselves over the years and who are authors of scientific works, including international ones in the field of macroeconomics, institutions and the work of regulators. Colleagues, let us, at least with regard to this choice, not repeat the worst practices in parliament, namely a pre-small group of people have agreed who we will support, because these people are the most comfortable in this situation. Let us support the professionals, if tomorrow we want Bulgaria to be better, to be more working and to protect the competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u34	Mr. Dimitrov, time's up. Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u35	I want an extension, Mr. Chairman, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u36	Please, proportionately extend the group's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u37	I call on you, fellow Members, to vote on your conscience, to vote responsibly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Kazak, the People's Representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you said to vote on conscience, you said we should vote for specialists, for independent experts. You pointed out that one of the applications proposed by the non-governmental sector...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u40	The only one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u41	...yes, the only candidate. You know that in Bulgaria the non-governmental sector cannot generally exist without sources of funding, without applying for certain programs, projects and so on. From this point of view, it is difficult for me to accept the thesis that you see, because someone is a representative of a non-governmental organisation, it is by definition independent. On the contrary, I think that when a non-governmental organisation is behind a person or, when I take an initiative, it is always the first question we need to ask ourselves: what is this non-governmental organisation, who is behind it, who is financing its work, so that we can see and be able to assess whether this non-governmental organisation is really independent or not? From there, whether the proposed application by this non-governmental organisation is really independent or not. These are the questions that need to be answered so that we can truly vote on conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Mr. Atalay has a wish for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Dimitrov, I have listened very carefully to your arguments for the presentation of your candidate and I want you to answer the following few questions. Firstly, you said that he was the only independent candidate, but I see that other colleagues, other representatives, are also independent. There is not a single leader of a political party or any of them being a prominent political representative of any political power. Then you say that he is the only independent Mr. Ivan Ivanov whom you proposed in the KEWRC, was he not party engaged and he is doing his job conscientiously? Your second argument was that only he could collect two and two that was four. He was the only one who could collect economical data on the basis of which to tell whether there was a cartel or not. Didn't the others graduate from at least eighth grade and they don't know how to collect data and be able to do the appropriate analysis?! The third thing you present here today. If it wasn't for you, there wouldn't be any other MPs who wanted to change. Good thing it was just you. Your fourth argument, which most impressed me. You say no one can call Mr. Petrov except you. So you and Mr. Slavov are the only ones who can call him to make a decision?! [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Is there anyone who wants a third line? [[Noise.]] A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u45	My fellow Members, I would very much like to call on you to take this procedure seriously and not to fall to the level of the last line. It's too serious a question for us to look at that way. I'm starting with Mr. Kazak what's bothering me. You said the following thing: "What is a non-governmental sector in Bulgaria, you don't believe it, I understood you because it has some funding." However, if the Bulgarian Parliament, regarding the only candidate proposed by non-governmental organizations, and four, the Chamber of Commerce, the Institute for Market Economics, the Center for the Study of Democracy, the Centre for Liberal Strategies, four prestigious NGOs, if the only such candidate does not receive support, for me the signal to the non-governmental sector will be exactly what Mr Kazak said: "We don't believe you, we don't like you, we don't like you anymore, and we don't like you to make applications and not offer them because we won't choose them." This will be the signal from the Bulgarian Parliament. What Mr. Atalay said. He likes to speculate, but he knows for himself Mr. Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov and Mr. Georgi Ganev have one common quality and it is that the two of them make their own decisions and that no one can tell them what to do. Such people are especially valuable. [[Noise and lines.]] It doesn't matter who suggested it, it doesn't matter who proposed Georgi Ganev. You know his work so far, despite the words you said from this tribune, and you know that he is. You know better than that! But this concerns part of the Bulgarian Parliament that it will make its own decisions based on analyses and results. And that's not good, fellow Members! It is not good for strong expert figures to bring concern, their independence to bring concern. This is not good for the Bulgarian Parliament! Mr. Atalay last said that eighth grade was enough to prove a cartel. Not enough, Mr. Atalay! [[Noise and lines.]] With an eighth grade education, a cartel doesn't prove it! Cartel is proven, analyzed and investigated with complex econometric models which, unfortunately, not everyone controls. Special education is required and a lot of knowledge. Therefore, there should be economists with the necessary knowledge in the future CDC who can carry out the necessary research and research. So, honourable Members, I thank you for the lines of our colleagues from the DPS and I urge you to vote on conscience and responsibility. This is very important!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov? Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the coworkers from the coulombs, there is an important vote coming up. Before we move on to the eleven decisions, I will read to you each separately. 6 and so on. 7 of the Rules: It's six. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes has been elected for "7." Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. Please, your colleagues, have they taken their seats? Dear Members, I am reading the first decision. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Julia Racheva Nenkova as Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Vote 148 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Dimitar Ivanov Kyumyrdzhiev as Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, voting mode. Vote 152 MPs: 140, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED She elected Anna Georgieva Yaneva as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, voting mode. Vote 175 MPs: 156 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. ? RESPONSIBILITY? To elect a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Georgitsa Petrova Stoyanova as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 160 MPs: 147, against 2, abstention 11. Before we move on to a next vote, honourable Members, I would like to propose that we vote on an editorial amendment to the decisions voted on so far. They are, in fact, what I have read, but compared to the Commission's proposals, there are some proposals. So my proposal now is to vote on an editorial amendment, so that we can go on in the same way as it is now: the National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 From the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition decided:...................................................................................................... 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition decided. Please vote on this editorial amendment. Vote 164 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 1. The decision's been made. In fact, only the grounds have been changed, so thank you for this decision. We continue with the next draft decision. It's identical to all the votes so far. ? RESPONSIBILITY? To elect a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Yordanov Ganev as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, honourable Members, voting arrangements. Vote 157 MPs: 27, against 24, abstention 106. To re-vote, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I asked for a re-vote because I saw that colleagues did not vote, and it was not because they were going in and out, but simply hesitating to press the panel. [[Noise on the left.]] I assume that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u48	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u49	I assume the reason... On my left, I'm not gonna explain what's causing it. But it seems to me that, rather in the centre-right, the reason may be some hesitation in whether this is the application and whose application it is. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] I use that Mr. Tsvetanov came to the Chamber because when I spoke he wasn't there, to make it clear that this is really the candidacy of the Reformation bloc, colleagues and I ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. A reverse opinion? Revoting, fellow Members. Vote 156 MPs: 27, against 38, abstention 91. [[People representatives Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov leave the hall.]] ? RESPONSIBILITY? To elect a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Kiril Boykov Doichinov as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Vote 149 MPs: 9 against 24 abstentioned 116. The offer is not accepted. Coming up next: ? RESPONSIBILITY? To elect a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Krasimir Georgiev Vitanov as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. They voted 143 MPs: 119, against 9, abstention 15. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Krasimir Yordanov Zafirov as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 149 MPs: 142 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Nikolai Ilchev Iliev as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 37 against 12, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Veselinov Kirov as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, voting mode. Vote 161 MPs: 143, against 6, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the election of a Commissioner for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED He elected Stamen Vladimirov Gerbelov as a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Please, voting mode. They voted 139 MPs: 36, against 10, abstention 93. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, according to the Rules of Voting, we have seven candidates who fulfil the selection requirements, according to the vote in plenary, respectively one President, one Vice-President and five Members. I now pronounce elected: Julia Racheva Nenkova as Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition [[Applause from GERB]] , Dimitar Ivanov Kyumyrdzhiev as Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition [[Applause from GERB]] Ms. Anna Georgieva Yaneva for member [[Applause from BSP LB]] Ms. Georgitsa Petrova Stoyanova for member [[Applause from GERB]] Mr. Krasimir Georgiev Vitanov for member [[Applause from GERB]] Mr. Krasimir Yordanov Zafirov for member [[Applause]] , and Mr. Plamen Veselinov Kirov for member [[Applause]] . Please have the newly elected President, Vice-President and Commissioners order the oath stand to be taken and then sign the oath sheet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u51	Please repeat the oath after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u52	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u53	We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. At its meeting on 22 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister, Mrs. Krasimira Filipova and Mrs. Petya Tiankova, Deputy Ministers, Mr. Blagovest Punev, Advisor, and Mr. Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Legal Service; Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General; Mr. Lozanov, Chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation, Mr. Lozan Panov; Mr. Georgi Kolev, Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court; Mrs. Dimitar Uzunova, Commissioner of the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Mihail Kozharev and Mrs. Juliana Koleva, Members; from the Inspectorate of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mrs. Theodora Tochkova Tochkova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. She pointed out that the changes are in line with the main positions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly in 2015 and implements the measures provided for in the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. One of the main objectives of the Bill is to establish the judicial self-government as an effective means of limiting the possibilities for administrative forms of influence over the independence of the court. It is envisaged that the most important functions be assigned to the general meetings of the Judges to determine the number and compositions of the wards, to listen to candidates for Chairs and Vice-Presidents, to give opinions on applications and to determine the division of cases of matter. Thus, for the Presidents remain mostly organisational functions to manage the property of the court and to manage the administration, while strengthening the democratic self-government of the court. Guarantees shall be established for individual independence of prosecutors and investigators through the introduction of a ban on oral orders and instructions in relation to work on cases and case files, as well as with regard to the restriction on the above-mentioned prosecutor to provide reasoned instructions on the application of the law, but not mandatory instructions on substantive resolution to ensure the right to independent assessment of the evidence. For the first time, the Law on the Judiciary introduces a maximum three-month period for carrying out checks, which aims to increase the effectiveness of the bodies carrying out the checks. For the purpose of greater accountability and transparency, the annual report on the activities of the prosecution and of the investigating authorities and the annual reports of the individual administrative managers on the prosecution website shall be proposed. The draft law improves the procedures for taking office in the judicial authorities, relocation and promotion in office. It provides for the establishment of permanent attestation committees to collect information about the needs of the individual units of the judiciary, as well as due information about each magistrate. The plenary of the SJC is intended to adopt a Regulation on indicators and methodology for attestations and criteria for reporting the level of workload of magistrates. The aim is to bring together the methods and mechanisms of evaluation and ensuring transparent personnel selection by establishing uniform central bodies for the attestation of judges, prosecutors and investigators. In order to ensure objective and predictable career growth, the initial appointment of a magistrate is proposed to take place through a competition and to be limited to taking up positions in the primary degree bodies. The initial borrowing procedures shall provide for a wider scope of the examination, including a verification of the knowledge of the applicant under European Union law, as well as mechanisms for prior assessment of the moral qualities of the applicants. It is intended that in the event of an increase in magistrates the assessment should be made only on the basis of the acts given by them and the professional skills shown by them. It is proposed to drop the interview in the procedures for raising magistrates, and the assessment will be made only on the basis of the acts given by them. The draft law provides for the introduction of a mixed system for the acquisition of a service contract for the acquisition of a common competence, after which for four months a professionally targeted service with one mentor is held. The examination rules include checking the knowledge of applicants by solving a case and solving a practical test. The Bill provides for changes in disciplinary proceedings to distinguish the disciplinary liability of judges, prosecutors and investigators from those of judges on the entries and state courts. It is proposed that disciplinary proceedings against magistrates and their administrative directors be set up before the relevant College of the SJC in order not to interfere with members of different guilds. In order to improve the proceedings, the investigation shall be carried out by members selected on a random basis and the imposition of the penalty shall be carried out by the SJC's plenary by a qualified majority. The bill establishes clear rules for the secondment of magistrates, aiming to balance their workload, but also to limit the arbitrary exercise of that power by providing for a limitation of the secondment for a period of no more than 6 months within a calendar year with the consent of the magistrate and 3 months without his consent. It proposes the personneling of the activities of the Inspectorate to the SJC with a view to the effective performance of the functions of checks on the property declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators and integrity and conflict of interest checks. As an additional condition, the requirement for additional and differentiated internship of applicants for inspectors and their expertise in matter is introduced. The last part of the Law governs the general issues of the exchange of documents between courts and the transition from the transfer of paper to electronic media. The amendments provide for an increase in the administration of the Inspectorate to the SJC, which carries out the checks, and administrative assistants will have to undergo an integrity check and will be appointed after a competition conducted under rules and selection methodology approved by the Chief Inspector. The circumstances to be declared, the time limits for the submission of the declarations and the conditions and procedures for their verification shall be detailed. The powers of the Inspectorate of the SJC are intended to include the conduct of an integrity check, the establishment of acts by magistrates that undermine the prestige of the judiciary and related to violation of the independence of magistrates. Mr. Uzunov took note of the importance of the Bill, pointing out that a large part of the SJC's considerations are in line with the draft and supported the proposals concerning the attestation of magistrates. With regard to the provisions governing the activities of the Inspectorate of the SJC, he pointed out that the opinion of the SJC is solidarity with this of the Inspectorate and expressed reservations to some of the texts concerning the principle of self-government. Mr. Kolev supported the Bill in the part about the changes in the competition beginning and testimonials, as well as the principle of self-government, but expressed reservations about the possibility of general meetings being able to determine the structure of the vessel concerned, the number of compositions and compartments, and the matter with which the individual magistrate will work. He found it unacceptable for the general meetings to designate the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the court concerned and to join the reasons set out in the opinion of the Inspectorate to the SJC. Mr. Tsatsarov expressed the opinion that the bill should be fully supported and pointed out that it is working in consensus and dialogue and that it unites the views of all stakeholders. Regarding the proposals for the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that he fully supports them and that they fully reflect the opinions of the prosecutor's guild. Mr. Panov expressed principled support for the bill. With regard to some of the proposals, he expressed the need to refine and pointed out that for this bill a plenary of the ICC was convened and was given the opportunity for the Supreme Judges to comment on it. Regarding the envisaged self-government of the courts, he pointed out that a balance must be sought between governance and self-government and the proposal should be refined because, on the one hand, the power of the general meetings and the plenarys to determine the number of units and their personnel is the prerogative of the SJC and, on the other hand, the President of the Court is often required to take unpopular measures which would not find the approval of the General Assembly. Ms. Tochkova expressed her principled support for the Bill, focusing on the need for the powers assigned to the Inspectorate of the SJC to verify the property declarations, integrity and conflict of interest to be set out in detail and refined in order to outline its functional competence and to ensure incontroversity in the work. She pointed out that in order to ensure the independence of the work of the Inspectorate at the SJC it is important that the Inspectorate can determine its own budget, not subject to an attestation and with this to an assessment of its work by the SJC. Mrs. Zhelyavska and Mrs. Negentsova expressed their principled support for the bill and pointed out that certain provisions needed to be refined. Mr. Kozharev supported the Bill by expressing the need to refine the provisions on budgetary relations between the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council with regard to the judges of registration, as well as the management of real estate. Ms. Zaharieva noted that all the opinions of the Inspectorate at the SJC are in line and voted during the work of the Council on Law at the Ministry of Justice, with regard to the budget of the Inspectorate and the Registry Agency, it is possible to seek the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. People's representatives Lachezar Nikiforov, Yavor Haytov, Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Philip Popov, Dimitar Delchev, Cetin Kazak and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion. Mr. Nikiforov expressed principled support for the Bill, announcing that the ABB Parliamentary Group is ready to withdraw the deposited Bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary. Mr. Kirilov also expressed readiness to withdraw the draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary in order to give priority and priority to the Law of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Haytov expressed support for the bill and welcomed the proposal for preliminary examination. Mr. Slavov, Mr. Delchev and Mr. Dimitrov welcomed the Ministry of Justice for the efforts made, saying that this bill is essential for judicial reform and that all interested parties worked in its preparation. Mr. Popov expressed his opinion that in the proposed Draft there are a number of texts that deserve support, but at the same time noted that the SJC did not give a written opinion and that the opinion of the Inspectorate to the SJC points to principled situations which are on the philosophy of the Bill, which motivates him not to support it. Mr. Kazak took note of the serious work carried out during the drafting of the Bill, but expressed reservations about the planned increase in the self-government of the magistrates, as he said this would take the responsibility and functions of the SJC and assign them to a collective body from which it is difficult to expect a single position. This approach would, in his view, lead to the commitment of the administrative director and his dependence on those he should lead. Mr. Kazak also expressed concerns about the Inspectorate's readiness to deal with the new powers assigned to him. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that he supported the bill by drawing attention to the need to seek synchronization between the provisions governing the powers of the Inspectorate of the SJC and the powers provided for by the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, 2 votes against the Constitutional Tribunal and 3 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the President and Nayden Zelenogorski will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 23 June 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The bill aims to establish judicial self-government as an effective means of limiting the possibilities of administrative forms of influence over the independence of the court and increasing the responsibility and efficiency of the administration of courts. The powers of the General Assembly of Judges shall be extended by providing for opportunities: - make proposals to appoint the President of the court concerned; - to hear all candidates and to express an opinion on the applications; - determine the number and composition of compartments and their specialization in matter; - discuss and adopt the President's report on the activities of the court; - to give opinions on requests for the adoption of interpretive decisions and interpretations concerning the activities of the courts concerned; - to give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on bills relating to the activities of regional courts. The proposed amendments to the prosecution part shall comply with its constitutionally defined structure and organisation. Prosecutors and investigators will no longer be subordinate to the Attorney General. Obedience remains only for the administrative leaders, and only in their management activities, thereby distinguishing between prosecutorial functions and management activities. It strengthens the accountability of the Prosecutor General, as well as of the administrative leaders in the prosecution system. Legal guarantees of non-interference in the internal conviction of prosecutors in their ruling on case files and cases shall be confirmed, eliminating the possibilities for influence and replacement of the judge's assessment by unjustified cancellation of prosecutors' acts and arbitrary instructions in connection with the institutional and official controls, in which cases requirements shall be laid down for the acts of the prosecutors above. The procedures for taking up office in the judicial authorities, for relocation and promotion, ensuring objective and predictable career growth, shall be improved and shall focus on the legal internship acquired in the judiciary as the main criterion for justice in the supreme courts and prosecutions. There is also profiling of the internship to acquire legal capacity, taking into account the preferences for the professional orientation of future lawyers. The disciplinary proceedings against magistrates and their administrative directors are divided between the relevant colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC). Thus, the independence of the magistrates and the non-interference of the members of the SJC, who represent prosecutors and investigators in carrying out the disciplinary responsibility of the judges, as well as the non-interference of the members representing the magistrates in carrying out the disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors and investigators. The status of the Inspectorate shall be guaranteed to the Supreme Judicial Council as an independent, authoritative and effective body of the judiciary with clearly defined control powers in respect of the activities, property and integrity of the judges, prosecutors and investigators. Changes to the jury part have been proposed, detailing the terms, arrangements, procedures and deadlines in which municipal councils will conduct the selection of jury candidates, which will then be offered to the relevant court. The requirements to be met by the candidates as well as the status and remuneration of the jury are laid down in detail. The amendments proposed in the Draft Law are in line with the basic provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by the National Assembly. 100 from 2015) and implement the main measures provided for in the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform adopted by the Council of Ministers in December 2014 and approved by the National Assembly in January 2015. The Bill implements the main recommendations of the European and international institutions as well as some of the measures set out in the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. In the course of the discussion were raised questions related to the attestation and career growth of magistrates, who were given a comprehensive answer by the Minister of Justice. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary submitted by the Council of Ministers to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. On behalf of the importer there is the Justice Minister Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the two reports that we have heard from both the Legal Commission and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, a major part of the draft's motives have been set out in detail, and I will therefore not repeat them to you, but I just want to say a few words. This is a bill that proposes the largest reform in the last 25 years in the basic law that regulates the structure, activity, obligations, responsibilities and judicial management bodies. Why is it so important to support him? First of all, because Bulgarian citizens expect this from us not only because the European Commission in a number of reports gives similar recommendations, but also because, although it is not a procedural law, it is directly related to the speed and quality of the trial. And why is it directly connected? Because, first of all, in it, besides reform of the court, reform of the prosecution, strengthening self-government, a major and essential part of it is career development, an assessment of magistrates and their responsibility. It gives a number of additional guarantees of independence and impartiality to judges, prosecutors and investigators, but at the same time with the new powers of the Inspectorate and with the way disciplinary proceedings will be developed, their responsibility will also be strengthened. Because the opposite side of independence and impartiality of magistrates is their high responsibility, which they bear to society and to all of us. The draft was developed in a working group with the participation of all stakeholders and discussed at four meetings of the Judicial Reform Council, which were attended by representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, both Supreme Courts and the Prosecutor's Office, and the professional organizations of judges, prosecutors and investigators, of the non-governmental sector, of the Sofia University, as well as representatives of some of the political parties, for which I thank. Of course, there can always be criticism of a bill, but the representatives of these institutions, when they participated in the Council, supported the bill as it is. All the controversial issues were subjected to serious discussion and debate in this Council. I believe that this is a working format for which Bulgaria was congratulated by both the Council of Europe and the European Commission when they were on a mission, because the important reform of the judiciary cannot happen without the involvement of the judiciary itself. In no case can full agreement be reached on each of the texts, but I believe that the work of the government and the Minister of Justice is to submit a text which is most consistent with the needs of society and not one or another body of the judiciary. From this point of view, I believe that is exactly what this bill proposes. Thank you for the support that the Committee of Law and the Regional Commission was given on this bill, and I hope it will be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov. After him the MPs Chetin Kazak and Metodi Andreyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we supported the Strategy for the Development of the Judicial Authority, but we did not support constitutional changes because we believe that they are not of such a nature as to solve the problems in the judiciary and to some extent deepen them. This Bill practically reflects these changes somewhere successful, elsewhere not. He's not single. The Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, and the Supreme Judicial Council itself failed to come up with an opinion, which leads precisely to the conclusion that the Bill is not a single one and some texts are such that they cannot be sanitized, improved between first and second readings. The Inspector's remarks to the Supreme Judicial Council regarding the Bill are absolutely justified, such as: The Inspectorate must be able to propose and defend its own budget, which is part of the constitutional principle of its independence. The relationship between the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate is not a relationship of power and subordinates, and this reads art. 132 (a.k.a. 6 of our Constitution. The Chief Inspector and the inspectors shall be independent and shall not be tested by the Supreme Judicial Council. This puts them in other unconstitutional relationships with the Supreme Judicial Council. The inspector and the chief inspector shall not and should not impose fines on judges, prosecutors and investigators for administrative offences which go far beyond its constitutionally established powers. How will the Inspectorate carry out a verification of the authenticity of the declared data of judges, prosecutors and investigators, because it is one thing to verify the reliability, it is quite another to compare the data submitted to the Inspectorate and those announced in the relevant registers? The moral concept of integrity and the experience of legal definition are unsuccessful, to put it mildly. The Inspectorate should also handle this concept and carry out an integrity check for judges, prosecutors and investigators. A definition of doubt is set for.............................................).......................................................................... How will the Inspectorate determine whether a judge, prosecutor or investigator succumbs to pressure with a psych test, with the SRS? What is this Inspectorate with these almost investigative functions? How should the Inspectorate determine whether a judge, prosecutor or investigator is undermining the prestige of the judiciary? What decency criteria should the Inspectorate apply? I would like to support this bill because there are problems in the judiciary. And in this Bill, there are really good proposals, but I do not think that this is the instrument with which the problems in the judiciary should be solved, and I also despise, indisputably, I hope that the ruling majority will not comply with all the remarks on the Bill and it will not be edited between first and second readings. It is not well settled and the status of the jury, and you know that there is a serious problem with finding such citizens to carry out this responsible task. For these reasons, which I have set out and there are others, I will refrain from supporting this Bill at first reading. I hope between the first and second readings this already depends on the will of the majority responsible to take into account all the remarks which I have made here from the stands of the National Assembly and which were heard in the Law Commission of the Supreme Administrative Court, VCC, by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. The People's Representative Chetin Kazak has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have heard from the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs that in the Legal Committee, I have expressed both congratulations and praises regarding the huge work that has been carried out, the numerous positive amendments proposed in this Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, but I also have an essential and very principled criticism regarding a conceptual issue in this Law. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! When we adopted the amendments to the Constitution relating to the continuation of the judicial reform, the main motive that justified our actions was to ensure the effective division within the judiciary between the different positions of the judge, on the one hand, and, on the other, the prosecutor's and investigator's, the inability of unlawful influences between these terms of the court and one another, that is to ensure the relative internal independence between the different positions of the judiciary, especially in order to achieve effective independence of the court. These were the reasons, and this was the mandate that the National Assembly gave through amendments to the Constitution. But nowhere in these changes, nowhere in the concept, in the Strategy for the Continuation of Judicial Reform was envisaged, and there is no sign of this motive developing in the direction of the so-called "self-government" in the judiciary. Achievement of independence, independence in the Magistrates' actions and acts is a good, supportive goal. Nowhere have we discussed, nowhere has it been said that the judicial reform must continue in the direction of achieving a form of self-government within the institutions of the judiciary, through a drastic increase in the powers of the so-called general meetings of magistrates, at the expense of delictising the role, at the expense of the total deprivation of effective powers of the executives and de facto placing them under absolute dependence on those who should normally lead. A leader, he or she and administrative, in order to be able to exercise his or her powers effectively, must not only have the opportunity to pass and impose his or her decisions in order to pursue any policy but, above all, to be independent of those he or she manages, not be subject to and placed in a situation of dependence at any time. In any other state institution, whether or not it is part of one of the three authorities, the head of the institution concerned has not been placed in such a form of dependence on those who are in charge, perhaps only with the exception of the National Assembly. Here, however, we must emphasise that we are talking about a political body. We absolutely cannot talk about such a parallel, because the court is the last thing but a political body! It must be extremely, extremely different from a political body, as is the National Assembly, in order to give reasons to make similar parallels. The idea of self-governing the magistrates, which has been pushed into this bill, is extremely wrong. She, as I said, totally delicts, deprives of authority, deprives of meaning the existence of the administrative leaders. It seizes their functions and provides them to an authority which is not even constitutionally defined as general meetings. It effectively deprives of personnel powers and the Supreme Judicial Council by circumventing the Constitution. By giving opportunities to the general meetings to nominate their future leaders, opportunities for wrongful participation and influence are actually given to the word Magistrate organizations in the process of making executive decisions in the judiciary, as I said behind the back of the Constitution, despite the will of the constitutional legislature. That's one thing. Secondly, through such a power, the executives are placed in total dependence on those future subordinates who nominated the respective future administrative supervisor who voted for it. Naturally, it creates risks of partisanisation, of separation of camps within the institutions of the judiciary, among those who have promoted and nominated their future administrative leader, and others who have not agreed to his nomination. On the other hand, a natural advantage is created for that application, which has been nominated by the relevant judicial authority, at the expense of other applications that would have been proposed by other judicial authorities. Such a proposal does not have any constitutional basis. Last but not least, honourable Members, the idea, the concept of a magistrate's self-government actually creates the risks of dualism and hence of anarchy within the institutions of the judicial system, since the real responsibility of who will nominate, who will appoint the future administrative leader, is blurred, on the one hand, between the General Assembly, on the other hand, between the respective college of the Supreme Judicial Council and, of course, the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. I think this concept needs to be seriously reviewed between first and second readings. Like I said, she has no constitutional basis. It goes beyond the mandate, which the amendments in the Constitution gave to the Law on the Judiciary, goes in the wrong direction, risks pushing the reform of the judiciary in the wrong direction. The motivation is commendable, the desire to guarantee the full independence of the magistrates in making their decisions, their acts, but this does not mean and does not justify the introduction of the so-called self-governments, which, as I said, has nothing to do with the reasons we voted on amendments to the Constitution. Once again, I would like to appeal to all my colleagues to reconsider this thesis. I expect this bill to be supported, but this concept must be seriously reviewed, as well as the powers granted to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, whether the Inspectorate is able to deal with all these powers, whether it is mandatory to grant some of them, or whether they can be left to another body that has better administrative capacity and better opportunities to deal with them. Along with the positive things, of course, as I pointed out at the beginning, which deserve support, the bill contains this fundamental flaw, which must necessarily be corrected between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. We'll stop for 30 minutes. After the break for speeches were signed up by Metodi Andreyev, Lachezar Nikiforov, Dimitar Delchev, Chavdar Georgiev and Danail Kirilov. Take 30 minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u64	We're continuing the hearing. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. A group of colleagues signed up before the speech break. The first of them is the People's Representative Metodi Andreyev. Dear Mr. Andreev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at a fundamental for our country Bill, which has been discussed for a long time and has gone through many different peripets. In the end, however, what we see as proposals at first reading is a certain step forward, and we should all emphasise it and acknowledge it. Of course, as in every good undertaking, he has his good and his not-so-good side. In my speech, I will try to show the good side of this Bill and make some proposals and make some criticisms that can be corrected between first and second readings. Two are the main objectives which the Law envisages with regard to the most controversial and most controversial part of the judiciary, namely the prosecution. My speech will be directed exclusively in this part of the Bill which examines the situation of the prosecution in the Law on the Judiciary. It is a fact that the two main changes that are being made are commendable first, regarding the accountability of the Prosecutor General and secondly, on the possibility of interfering the heads of prosecutors and the Prosecutor General in specific cases. In both directions we have made certain progress. With the new article. 138a of the Draft Law is governed by a constitutional procedure whereby the National Assembly may request the Prosecutor General to present reports on the activities and results of the prosecution in the implementation of the Law, countering crime and the realization of criminal policy. During the hearing of the Prosecutor General before the National Assembly we will be able to ask questions, we can ask questions, including from citizens, from NGOs, this is a very good proposal in this Law. The possibility of such issues is also a positive, albeit insufficient step for the prosecution's accountability, but is an essential step. Unfortunately, this bill cannot compensate for the lack of adequate procedure for the removal and investigation of the Attorney General and the senior prosecutors as a form of control over this part of the judiciary. Such a procedure can be found, as we all know, in the Constitution, this is the constitutional issue. Already in the Thirty-eighth National Assembly, as a Member of the National Assembly, I have proposed such texts and then, in that majority, 131 people also failed to pass. I don't blame the current National Assembly either. The question of the lack of such a procedure is not related to the person of any Prosecutor General, it is principled, it is fundamental to our democracy. Moreover, many times this penal policy has repeatedly and this principle in penal policy has been repeatedly placed in the Venice Commission, in the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights. The overpowering and uncontrolled management of the prosecution is dangerous, both for the court and for the other institutions of the democratic model, it is dangerous for democracy itself. In this direction ahead of us, of course, there is an opportunity. I hope that there will be progress in this direction in the future. The second objective, in which a step forward has been made, is the too wide interference of the heads of the prosecution and the Prosecutor General in specific cases. So far you know that in Bulgaria this is a very discussed topic, I have discussed it many times myself. In the new Bill intervention is limited, but it is not limited enough, and in some cases is a subsequent effect of a strengthening. Let's say, first of all, the positive things, the good things that happen. In the first place, this is the removal.. I will call it literally, just as its name is, on the Bolshevik text of art. 136 of the Judicial Law, namely that the prosecution is unified and centralized and that all prosecutors are subordinate to the Prosecutor General. In itself, this fact is a very good signal to all of the state, both to the Law and to the judiciary. As noted more than once, art. Art. 136 of the Law on the Judiciary has so far been copied by Article 136 of the Law on the Judiciary. 129 of the Russian Constitution, which acted until 2014 when it was replaced. The problem is also in the words that match the pattern and shape of an institution. Although this text, stating that all prosecutors are subordinate to the Prosecutor General, is being removed, a provision is being proposed that prosecutors are led by their administrative leaders and they are in turn subordinate to the Prosecutor General. There is a mediocrity through which the relations of subordination in the prosecution are passed. In general, the concept of subordination, in my opinion, has no place in the Law on the Judiciary. Such an expression does not exist even in the law of the Ministry of Interior, where submission cannot be contested. This expression is unnecessary and is contrary to art. 117, para. 2 of the Constitution of Bulgaria, which says that all judges, prosecutors, investigators, all who are in the judiciary are subject only to the Law, that is, they cannot have subordination beyond this commitment, taken under the Constitution. In contradiction with the previously announced objective decentralisation of the bill, it is arranged the power of the Attorney General to carry out revisions and inspections, and to control the work of all prosecutors and investigators. This text is not specific, and when there are non-specific texts, loopholes are created through which can actually increase centralisation in the prosecution. It is not clear what these reviews will lead to and what their purpose is and what their outcome may be. As a positive novelty in the Bill can be assessed the new paragraph of art. The Chief Prosecutor shall supervise the legality and methodological management of the activities of all prosecutors and investigators for the precise and uniform application of the laws and protection of the legal rights and interests of the citizens and legal persons of the State. Paragraph 136. 5. In short, the Prosecutor General must issue general instructions for uniformising the practice of all prosecutors, but not interfere with an order on specific cases. The European Court of Human Rights refers to this model as functional independence, but dependent on individual prosecutors. With him, every prosecutor is independent in solving issues in a particular case, but institutionally dependent on their leaders, the Attorney General and so must be. In this context, every prosecutor is obliged to follow the general instructions of the Attorney General. It can be punished disciplinaryly by its administrative supervisor with a remark and a reprimand. At the moment this is settled in the Law on the Judiciary. The Prosecutor General may propose a separate prosecutor for more severe penalties and dismissals to the Supreme Judicial Council and this is governed by the Law on the Judiciary. The Prosecutor General and the prosecutors above should be able to initiate an investigation into a criminal offence, but not subsequently to influence this investigation, except on the legality of the proceedings and by the possibility of subsequent protests in a higher instance, that is how this issue is settled in the French model. The Attorney General and the above prosecutors may revoke acts of the following prosecutors, but only if they are unlawful. That annulment should be reasoned and written. The Inspectorate and the Committees on Appeals to the Supreme Judicial Council can assess the work on specific cases of each prosecutor, which is why they are another guarantee against possible out of control by the ordinary prosecutors. Finally, the written instructions should be removed as they are contrary to the principle of functional competence of prosecutors. If the Law requires eight years of internship for a district attorney, it is illogical for him to need written instructions to solve a case. A real guarantee of the necessary decentralisation of the prosecution would be a good proposal here, which can be adopted between first and second reading by colleagues, to submit it, would be an appeal procedure for unlawful interference in the work of prosecutors by their leaders and higher prosecutors. Such an example procedure has been adopted in Romania, and I must tell you that we visited Romania last year and saw how their anti-corruption system works. In Romania, prosecutors can file a complaint with the Supreme Judicial Council if they consider other prosecutors to interfere illegally in their work on specific cases. All the above measures, which I have outlined and which could be proposed between first and second readings, can only contribute the Law to getting even closer to the provision of art. 117, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Finally, something that can't be undone. Again in Romania, the question of how were selected the staff in these high-level institutions fighting corruption, such as the DNA, is the head office of their general prosecutor Laura Köveshi, and the other institution - ANI -- which is their Commission for? -- was adamant that there were no people involved in the former Securitas in these places. It is commendable that this Law on Judges, on inspectors, on the jury, on experts, provides for extremely adequate checks for the staff, on the impossibility of non-compliance with the service. All sorts of checks are provided and only one is missed. I think it needs to be introduced. When a person applies for an inspector, an expert or a jury, to present, as we have already voted many times in this National Assembly, a document from the Committee on Files that the person has been checked under this Law and that he has, or does not belong. Of course, this quality of it has, or does not belong, will not affect the possibility for it to take the post in question, but will allow for a truly informed choice when it comes to choosing a position in the judiciary system. That's good. I will personally propose some such changes between first and second readings. I would like to commend the minister who has indeed achieved a difficult consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Is there a wishing Member of the National Assembly to take advantage of the right to reply to the so far-reaching speech of the National Representative Metodi Andreev? I won't. Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov, after him to prepare the people's representative from the Reformation Block Mr. Dimitar Delchev. Mr. Nikiforov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the ABB Parliamentary Group in the sector "Judicial Reform" is clear and consistent from the very beginning. We supported the updated Strategy, were corrective in the amendments to the Constitution and did not allow political influence in the formation of the two Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council. The ABB opposed the initial attempt to unilaterally conduct the reform for the personnel management of the Supreme Judicial Council and the judiciary. Since the beginning of the debate on amendments to the Constitution, the ABB has insisted on a structured wide professional and expert discussion on judicial reform through the establishment of the Judicial Reform Council of the National Assembly, we even have a formally submitted draft decision. What was the value of this approach? First, that we would have had a comprehensive view of the necessary changes, not to work in a piece and then to think that this or that didn't happen or couldn't. Secondly, there would have been an agreement of the three authorities, which would undoubtedly have led to speeding up the adoption itself and the move of the reform itself. That is, if then more than a year ago our call was heard, we would have probably long ago adopted the legal framework of judicial reform and had already real and positive results. However, it is good that although at a later stage, and in a different form, our idea of the Reform Council is being realised. We also see in practice that the constitution of the Reform Council, which is committed to drafting the amendments to the Judicial Law, reflecting the amendments to the Constitution and the adopted and updated Strategy for Judicial Reform, is the right step, instead of constantly embarking on amendments to the Constitution. The Council examined the drafts submitted to the National Assembly to amend the Law in the judiciary, together with the draft of the Ministry of Justice. At the same time, the ABB does not understand why most political parties represented in the National Assembly did not attend the meetings of the Council on the preparation of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. For us, reform in justice is not for the parties, neither the power nor the opposition, but we owe it to the citizens. It was this duty to the citizens that required all of us to participate in the process. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Both the institutions and the parties seem to have refused to work this way on the basis of professional opinions together to seek the best solutions for society. So today there will probably be a lot of criticism of the Law, too, of those who are constructive, but also of those who are unprincipled. ABB had a number of initiatives in the sector. Along with the proposed Reform Council, we proposed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, including e-Justice. We have tabled broad parliamentary support, a draft of amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, which are essentially changes in administrative justice and are directly related to reform, with rapid and accessible justice. The ABB supported the first package of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary without trying to amend it and changing it beyond the Council's agreement on reform. ABB actively participates in the work of the Judicial Reform Council and on the second package of amendments and believes that the proposed bill largely reflects the proposals and recommendations made during the working groups. A very large part of the controversial or proposed ideas without analysis have dropped out. For those who do not know, the Council is represented in addition to the Ministry of Justice, but also the parliamentary groups, the academic community, the word organizations of magistrates, the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Judicial Council, the non-governmental sector, experts. Quite naturally, the Council, as a collective body, has expressed various opinions, perhaps on the same issue now, has different opinions. And the point is not to oppose it, because the easiest thing is to criticize and not offer anything, the most important thing is to seek and find working, effective and beneficial solutions for citizens. According to the ABB, despite the enormous work, a few more questions are put in the public domain. For example, those related to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council or to the judges' self-government, but there are also possible solutions. We note positively that the controversial texts of the anti-corruption law relating to anonymous signals and polygraph checks were not used. For us are important the changes proposed in the texts devoted to the jury, to the attestations, to the posting, to e-Justice. The ABB held and continued to hold meetings with the word organizations, with stakeholders to take their opinion into account on the final project, but we will insist that the work on these chapters continue, if necessary, after the vote at first reading, and if proposals are made to improve the Law, they will be supported. ABB will not participate in agreements, submission and support of texts that would prevent judicial reform. ABB will support the Law at first reading in general and in general as a sign of support for the reform of justice, and between the readings it will retain its right to propose or support texts that improve the Law. The ABB also insists on the Judicial Reform Council ruling on the proposals received between first and second readings. Otherwise, we risk cutting out the huge work we have done so far and ultimately returning to ground zero in the reform of the judiciary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Nikiforov. - What's the line? I do not see any MPs wishing to make a reply to the speaker. I give the floor to Mr. Dimitar Delchev, after him is listed by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. Mr. Delchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I, together with a large part of my colleagues from the Reformist bloc, will support the Judicial Authority Act as it was proposed at first reading, as this is a bill which is intended to complete a very important stage of the judicial reform.............................................................. At the end of last year, we made the fifth amendment to the Constitution and adopted texts changing fundamental situations that would lead to an improvement in the judiciary, and three months ago, we introduced these amendments to the Judicial Law, which practically applied the amendments to the Constitution. All this was necessary, but we are all aware that there is no way that those provisions that are too general, being provisions in the Constitution, give a real reflection in society and with regard to the rule of law and justice. That is not the case with the current amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. Trust in the court is extremely low, and also in the prosecutor's office below 10% is trust in these institutions. Because of the lack of trust in the people, the lack of belief that justice will be obtained in the court comes to a street fair, which we see every day on criminal reports in television, which for a democratic and developed society cannot be a fact. Expectations in society are definitely high. That is why I am very pleased to see that in this project, a number of very important principles have been reflected in the Judicial Law and several very important ideas are being passed. One is regarding the self-management of judges and the independence of judges; clear and transparent competition procedures, less formalism in attestations, clearer disciplinary proceedings and e-Justice. All these issues are addressed in this Bill. The aim of this Bill is also to achieve a real verification of the integrity of magistrates through the powers given to the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. And although there have been various objections to the fact that the Inspectorate is given powers that it cannot take over, it receives functions that it cannot handle, I believe that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, elected by the National Assembly and an independent body, must have all the powers that it can, independently and responsibly, deal with such severe vices in the judiciary as corruption, trade in influence and all other processes. The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be the authority that is able to bring back confidence in whether the system acts properly and properly. Of course, there are things in the Bill that can be fixed. However, the bill is over 200 paragraphs and has been drawn up in extremely short terms, as has been set as a goal by the new leadership of the Ministry of Justice and there is no way there is nothing to stand up for. Of course, with regard to the independence of judges, much has been done. Not so much has been done with regard to the independence of the prosecution and the decentralisation of the prosecution, but, ultimately, with regard to no principle of decentralisation or independence must be extreme. Decentralisation in the prosecutor's office, when in an excessive extreme, can lead to unexpected consequences and phenomena. There are things in terms of evaluation, digital assessments in the assessment or adoption of the evaluation...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are detailed changes in spheres concerning the judiciary, which have long since been touched, which I would allow myself to say that they had caught webs and had led to scandals regarding the presidents of wards of different courts in Bulgaria, which could have been avoided if the judges were given the opportunity, through the general meetings, to take the important decisions and compete with each other, so that the President would indeed be the first between equals. For this reason, and for many reasons and circumstances, I, together with some of my fellow Members, will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I can't see. The People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev BSP LB has the floor. After him "Daniel Kirilov, Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u71	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! The Council of Ministers presented to us another draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, which impresses us with its volume, and which is essentially a redesign of the entire Act in force, perhaps the 34th or 35th amendment, but that does not really matter. In discussing this Bill at first reading, we should ask ourselves the question: exactly what are the objectives of the Bill, what is its philosophy, if any, and what will result after it is adopted and starts acting? These questions, of course, are rhetorical. And the answer is clear. It aims to demonstrate reform first in order to take account of something before some time and another, in order to demonstrate some effort to society that judicial reform continues and attempts are being made to improve the state of justice in our country. Unfortunately, judicial reform, honourable Members of the ruling majority, is like your other reforms, confused, aimless, unprincipled, impersonal, vaguely positive. The importer does not show in his motives a clear vision of what will result from the adoption of the new regulatory regulation in a year, two, three or more, what exactly will improve in the system of the so-called judiciary, which problems or shortcomings will be resolved by this Law. Instead, compelling, seemingly positive objectives are declared, and this is done so as not to be responsible for the results of this reform. We from BSP left Bulgaria will not support this Bill and this was clearly said by this tribune because it is not relevant, unaddressed, as colleagues like to say on the right, to the real problems of the judiciary, does not strengthen the independence of magistrates, does not create real legal prerequisites for limiting influence and corruption. Our position is clear and consistent. We pointed it out at the adoption of the Strategy, supported it in the amendment of the Constitution, and we are supporting it now. The proposed by the majority of bills do not lead to a substantial improvement in justice. It is clear to everyone and to all: the third authority is sick, as is the disease of our entire society. Her operation is not good. The rule of law is not guaranteed to the ordinary citizen, there is no uniform and uncontroversial application to everyone. Some can be convicted, others are difficult to file even for prosecution. The right to the protection of natural and legal persons is not ensured, there is no fair and relatively rapid process, including when resolving commercial or property disputes. Some individuals are privileged and others are victims. No one's responsible for the miscarriage of justice. It's not good, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's For normal magistrates there is no certainty and a guaranteed fair career growth. The issue of drastic differences in the workload of magistrates and relevant structures of the judiciary is not solved. All of us, and not only ourselves, have reasonable doubts that there are enough rotten apples in the judiciary that make it ineffective, that this power is probably, or at least partly, not independent and is under the influence of the political, oligarchic and criminal elite. In our view, the proposed Bill will not change the state and functionality of the judiciary and does not provide adequate regulatory regulations to remove or at least substantially limit systemic disabilities and problems. That is why BSP left Bulgaria will not support it. The bill currently under consideration must also be assessed in the context or in accordance with the framework of the updated strategy adopted with great effort to continue judicial reform. Here I am obliged to stress that in connection with the adoption of this updated strategy, we from BSP left Bulgaria gave our constructive support and our credit of trust. Alas, it became very clear very quickly that the Strategy and the action of the majority are not aimed at resolving the real problems of the judiciary or at least not at the main ones taken in their relationship and overall. For example, what do they offer us with this Bill on the famous judges' self-government? It is defined as a means of limiting influence or combating corruption, strategic objective No 1, specific sub-target No 2, of the Strategy. At the same time, it is also defined as the main objective and achievement of the proposed Bill. But nothing is really changing that will limit influence or prevent corruption. We are creating regulation that gives seemingly greater importance to the General Assembly of the relevant court, as some kind, rather, advisory body. Of course, it is good to give the General Assembly the right to make a proposal for personnel appointments, to give opinions and to listen, to determine the number and compositions of wards, but this does not solve issues of external influence and the fight against corruption. Doesn't it then seem to extend the judicial self-government so that the General Assembly can be used as an amorphous structure convened by the President of the Court to cover itself up or to impose a personnel or organizational decision, for example for the benefit of a judge's organization? Wouldn't this regulation lead to opposition to different groups of magistrates in specializations and matter? Why would they be able to decide 25% plus one vote, and by vague rules? Why are the seconded magistrates excluded, and are they not affected by the decisions of the General Assembly? In general, the proposed amendments, not only related to the so-called secular self-government, raise valid questions about the effectiveness and effectiveness of legal regulation. Why is the new Bill essentially limiting a person's ability to participate as a juror? Why do magistrates, when they were members of the SJC or the Inspectorate of the SJC, necessarily return to the previously held position and how exactly will their activities be evaluated, which is also part of their attestation? What is achieved by refusing the administrative leaders the general organizational and administrative management? Will this lead to more effective work of the relevant structures and administrations towards them? What change do we make when we define the prosecution as a single and not by centralising and at the same time assigning more powers to the Attorney General? Will this make her work more effective and will crime be reduced? Are we going to stop external influence or corruption by submitting numerous declarations, or are we only creating a reason for targeted checks? These and a number of other issues that arise when reading the new bill only show, in my opinion, that no reform is actually being made, but another change, however bulky it may be. Even at the adoption of the Strategy, we warned that BSP left Bulgaria is for a real reform of the judiciary, which will improve the administration of justice. Our society is torn apart by inequalities, injustice, and controversy. It is the judicial authority that can regulate and restore them justice if it is independent and if it applies the Law correctly. It is obvious that the majority has undertaken the tactics of continuing reform rather than achieving a better outcome. Therefore, this Bill will be another one without a particularly significant result. Therefore, this bill should not be supported. We are aware that the fundamental handicaps of the judiciary stem from the fundamental vices of modern neoliberal society and that, in an unjust society based on inequality and deepening contradictions, rule of law is hard to achieve. However, this understanding cannot be an occasion to support a continuing reform, which is a pseudo-reform. On the contrary, BSP left Bulgaria opposes this approach and we will do our best to change the real justice as guarantor of the rights of natural and legal persons and as a manifestation of the rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? There are no MPs willing to make a line. The next speaker is Mr. Danail Kirilov, Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! As I have listened to the debate so far, I have come to you directly to doubt whether there is a need to repeat again the advantages and priorities of this Bill, to recall history back in time how we came to this Bill or, respectively, to make a comparative analysis of how brave we were in planning the measures in the updated Strategy for Reform in the Judicial System, or to leave them behind in time. However, opposition colleagues, who are concentrating the debate on two topics, obviously should receive non-long and long-lasting answers, and I would say answers in their particulars. I am convinced that even in the debate in the Legal Committee they were convinced exactly the opposite. The two accents were in relation to the judicial self-government.. Is it acceptable and to what extent? Remember the updated Strategy. All of us then, including BSP colleagues, welcomed the opening up of the possibility of judicial self-government as a form of control, self-control, as a form and tool for overcoming addictions. If judges remain at their current level of engagement, I would say, in terms of their internal relationships in the institution where they are law enforcement, they will remain just as dependent, they will remain just as disinterested, but they will remain as passive as they were now. The idea of self-government has obviously given the opportunity, and at the moment the Magistrates are definitely in the upsurge with regard to faith, belief and hope that they already see, meet an active political will that achieves concrete results. What is wrong with judges and magistrates knowing and participating in decision-making on fundamental issues that concern the organisation of their activities in the institution in which they legalize? Well, it's not bad! On the contrary, the other is bad, because when they don't know, suspicions are rampant, negative relations are applied, and negative relations are added. What's wrong with dividing the work, dividing it from the general meeting, knowing what the distribution of materials is. What's wrong with judges being involved in applications? So far, everyone has criticized and explained how, in a vague, dark way, the behind-the-scenes nominated in some way the candidates in the judiciary. This is the exact opposite, the exact opposite, so let me know, let me have the opportunity to express an opinion, an opinion, an attitude. The judges' commitment to justice and its organisation is just as great as ours, even theirs is much greater, because they work directly and directly in this environment. They know the details that could help them organize themselves better. I don't want to suggest internal paranoia or even say that self-government is also a form of self-control. Let's bet on transparency -- that's the positive thing we're looking for. Here I will sharply distinguish myself from any claims by speakers from the opposition who say we are doing something conjunctural. We don't do anything conjunctural. These are requirements that our colleagues in all mechanisms, all relationships have been talking about not saying for decades, but are actively speaking them for the last 5 years. Do not criticize the importer for having the courage to propose this step! I hope this step is brave enough! I would like to say a sentence on the worry: Do we know what effect this self-government will have?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Isn't that why we're lawmakers? That is why we have adopted a special amendment to the key legislative act which governs the law of law. Each law should also be subject to ex post evaluation, except in advance. But no one knows that because we haven't seen him. Let's start, let's see it and if we find them or if there are defects, then there is an opportunity to correct them accordingly. In my opinion, however, we cannot and should not lose the interests of magistrates because we rely on this interest and commitment to be the driving force of judicial reform. On the second topic, we can hardly be clear and comprehensive at this stage and at first reading regarding the extension of the powers of the Inspectorate in particular with regard to the details. I stood up for her in Legal Committee, I keep commenting on her and thinking about her. We must certainly have a harmonious regime in terms of responsibility, the verification of conflict of interest, integrity and so on, both for senior civil servants and magistrates. I'm going to afford a clamp here, because personally, I was very surprised. I thought that the judges, as well as they write decisions, i.e. legal acts, were just as well written legal acts. To my amazement, and also with some concern, I was impressed with myself that they deal more insecurely with the legislative texts, more difficult to formulate clear will, however, have great concerns and suspicions in the interpretation and extraction of the clear and precise meaning of the legal norm. I admit it bothered me. On this issue, however, we also have the opportunity to correct ourselves and to work between first and second readings and at the second reading itself. We should certainly be precise here. I will conclude with this, although there have been many speeches, but so as not to take up the time. I will not join the findings made by my colleague Metodi Andreev, and I would not like to comment on them. I declare the position of our parliamentary group that we fully support the proposed Draft by the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Justice. I would like to emphasise the serious and significant role of the work done by the Minister and the Judicial Reform Council. This is a new tool that has proven its applicability and effectiveness, especially in solving such severe and complex regulatory cases. I would also like to say good words about the wonderful participation of the Minister, who very successfully balanced these extremely controversial and contradictions, and it has actually come to a consolidated and largely adopted by all the regulatory acts. The opposition said something very interesting. I wouldn't want to comment on it. In principle, there is no way for the Judicial Reform Council to look at the proposals for second reading between first and second readings. That thing's not in our book. However, it makes sense, and we should not ignore it as a proposal. I put it as a task to find the solution, because it is good that the debate that was in the Judicial Reform Council should also take place with regard to the texts with proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Kazak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I have listened with interest to your speech. I was puzzled specifically by your thesis: let's see now, let's try what will happen. In advance, we cannot tell what the effect of these changes will be. Let's see, and if we have to, then we'll adjust ourselves. When it is pre-clear that an idea poses serious risks, I think the sample approach is not the best approach! When it is clear in advance that we are placing serious mines in the functioning of the judicial authorities through the introduction of this kind of self-government, I think it is better to limit it in advance, to disarm these mines than to wait for them to explode afterwards and then wonder that, yes, we have tried, but obviously we have made a mistake. You say that this tool creates opportunities for self-control. What self-control? You merely empower general meetings, i.e. the Union of Judges, to say it directly to each other, to participate in all management and personnel decisions in the judiciary now quite openly and openly. And then self-control?! How will they control themselves? They will participate, nominate, listen, make commitments to them and then you will expect some self-control?! There will be no self-control. The executives will simply be depreciated. You can see that the two senior representatives of the administrative leaders in the judiciary "the President of the VCC and the President of the SAC expressed extreme reservations regarding these ideas of self-government. It is high time, apart from representatives of the ordinary magistrates, to hear the voice of the executives, to see how far it can go on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Is there anything else you'd like to say? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, you have the right to the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kazak, this is exactly what I was trying to explain to you that it's not about a mine, it's about a good thing. We defined this good as an objective, as an effort to achieve it in the updated Strategy. We said we were going to develop the judges' self-government. We didn't write in the Self-Management Strategy is a minefield, so let's defuse it. I will continue to argue that self-governance in any form in the intense, moderate or minimal is always an achievement for a closed system. It couldn't have been otherwise. With regard to these and the opinions of the administrative leaders, I personally listened very carefully to them, and I took them very carefully. Perhaps I will show a certain tendency to support their proposals in order to find a really effective balance. But let's think about it: Where did the great evil come from? I don't know if it's a great evil even because I've only recently known about this professional organization. I think it's a prestigious word magistrate organization. If there is any desire for a word organization to take over the general assembly, what is the problem to have, say, an alliance or an association of other judges? This is exactly the field in which pluralism should manifest itself, the debate. Let's open up an opportunity like this. Personally, I was worried about this because I highly appreciate the word organizations of the judges, but I am surprised that I now have to be cautious and skeptical about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For speech there is the word of the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the Bill, but it is still good to pay attention to a few important points. When speaking, honourable Members of the National Assembly shall be directed in two directions. One of the directions is the ordinary, normal Bulgarian citizen who craves justice, a fair trial and a right hand out of the law. Interesting is the opposition's thesis, which says: "We will not support the draft. That is to say, it follows by assumption that we will want the old Law to act, which it has accumulated, I mean, that the opposition wants this, all these negatives in the years, this enormous mistrust of the judiciary.. has created a huge deficit of confidence in this same judiciary. That's what the opposition says. I feel sorry, I even feel sad that at the same time there is an opposition that is sloppy on the left, which is probably the majority currently eating the Ombudsman's cherries, it is sad indeed. When considering the Law on the Judiciary, it is good to take into account a few important things that are a matter of forgotten memory. A part of the bill, honourable Members, is actually applicable action following amendments to the Constitution. These actions " 209 MPs voted to amend the Constitution, it was necessary to carry out in this Law, as well as in a series of others. Of course, there's no way to say there's a perfect law. I don't think anyone here is going to brag that they've passed the perfect law over the years or that they're about to submit one. I can only say that several extremely constructive, dialogue meetings were held by the Minister of Justice with the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. I would note that there is still one problem in the Law, if I may call it related to the control of the prosecution's work. In particular, this part of the prosecution's work, which leads to this enormous mistrust in the citizens and which is expressed in refusing pre-trial proceedings. In this direction, perhaps you should think better, because, unfortunately, statistics show that when citizens are active and file complaints to this same prosecution, more than 85% of them are crowned with a ruling refusing pre-trial proceedings. It is more unpleasant, but we do see that there is will here and it is working in this Bill for the exercise of control by a senior prosecutor to point out the vices of the relevant prosecutor's decree so that they can be removed and a fair investigation may be carried out, which will increase the confidence of the ordinary citizen in the judiciary. I repeat, we will support the Bill with the clear aim that this is a good and bold attempt to change. It's a very old word for "reform." We have normal, beautiful Bulgarian words........................................................................................ I would also call on the other colleagues to support the Bill, his philosophy, and between first and second readings, naturally, everyone has their opportunity for relevant motivated proposals to make the Law pό perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. In the manner of holding Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, and I'm asking you to stop the fat attempts at ironing any parliamentary group, whoever it is. Please make a remark at the very least to the speaker in this regard. It is not appropriate here, from this tribune, in such a way to make these attempts to ironize on any group. I will not comment on the very statement of the speaker about how a law undermines trust in the system. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u82	Mr. Popov, I take it that the statement by the speaker Bajraktarov the Cherishes of the Ombudsman is really beyond the scope of the comments and debate of the Law on the Judiciary. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u83	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u84	Of course, the fruits of the Bulgarian land are mainly commented when we debate bills on which the Committee on Agriculture and Food is leading, but he very briefly mentioned only this term, so there was no physical possibility when to interrupt it, but I understood you. Is there anyone who would like a line in terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u85	You gave the procedure before the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u86	I had previously stated that in your speech, Mr. Bajraktarov, the MPs can replicate. Anyone for a line? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleague Bajraktarov, I take the floor to clarify what is the clear position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria. We just don't want to be responsible in your incessant attempts. This is our position. The law on the judiciary is serious enough legal matter to play with mistakes and trials.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u88	Says who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u89	You said it. You said it in your statement. Understand, we do not want to be responsible with your experiences. We think they're clumsy, that's all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u90	Second line? There's no demand for a second line. Hole, Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, although you have violated the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly and have given a procedure to colleague Popov, I will still take advantage of my right to duplicate, and immediately afterwards I will ask for a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Georgiev, on the left of me stands the stenographer, you can get acquainted in detail with the transcript of this meeting and from my speech and if you find a word with which I have said that the Law on the Judiciary is something serious and not serious, I will rise from this stand to apologize. But putting words in my head that I didn't say is, first, unworthy of the point of being a lawyer, and second, it shows once again the frustration of trying to play opposition, but, unfortunately, even this role you can't play as a political force, which is pathetic. I say: pity, because it is always good to have a strong opposition in a National Assembly. From there on, it would be good to learn from what I have said. Again: to speak of mistrust, which has been created by the current Law on the Judiciary to a large extent, and to want to continue to act the same Law is no longer serious. Any attempt to change which is also related to the amendments to the Constitution, as I have told you, must be encouraged. We therefore support this Bill and express it both clearly and responsibly. You can show and express all your creativity between first and second readings, offer alternatives and if they are good, if they are useful to the Bulgarian judiciary and to the Bulgarian society, I will personally support them, only that I do not see even such actions on your part, as in many other laws. Thank you for your attention. And now, Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. President, the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly clearly and categorically regulates in which cases the sequence follows after the speech. You violated the Rules by granting the right to a procedure to attempt the censorship of my speech. The Bulgarian Constitution has clearly and accurately regulated the Constitution. If you do not know it, I will remind you that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance, which is carried out according to the laws and Constitution of this country, and the national representative has full freedom and right from the stands of the National Assembly to express his views freely. I see nothing offensive about anyone eating the cherries of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Even I'm gonna go do it in a little while after I vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u92	Mr. Bayraktarov, let's focus on the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u93	And since you have broken the Rules, take note another time not to violate it and not to give procedures and then to give the right for lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u94	Thank you. I never thought of censoring you. There's hardly any MP who has the courage to censor you. We're moving on to the next MP. This is Mr. Stefan Kenov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center-People's Union. Mr. Kenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I did not have the opportunity to attend the debate in the Legal Committee regarding the first reading of the Bill, but, as the Minister and the Judicial Reform Council allowed, all the parliamentary groups were invited to this Council. I have endeavoured to attend all the meetings of the Judicial Reform Council to examine the Law on the Judiciary. First of all, I would like to congratulate Minister Zaharieva because this may be the first working group, the first Expert Council to be present, which was done professionally by the best professionals in this field in the Republic of Bulgaria. Just a few words for those who are not familiar with the work of the Council. Offers came from the best magistrates in the country, from the best representatives in the judiciary and there they were approved. It is inconclusive to me that some of these same people subsequently proposed other things, and inside the meetings themselves, I believe that consensus has been reached. Madam Minister, we are perhaps the only parliamentary group that does not support Minister Ivanov's Judicial Reform Strategy. In our view, there were many gaps, uncertainties and inaccuracies, but methodically and irrevocably we supported all reasonable proposals in the amendments to the Constitution, we had our proposals. The entire parliamentary group unanimously supported the amendments to the Constitution. As a continuation of this policy, we will support 100 per cent and as Parliamentary Group BDZ-People's Union what you are proposing today. I won't go into details. I think the debate has gone on too long. For us today, the principle is important. We, all of us, have requested judicial reform, even us, who did not vote for the Strategy, which was voted more than a year and a half ago in this House. We cannot achieve judicial reform without voting on the Law at first reading. And whoever has any considerations, whatever they may be, we are ready to look at them as well and support them as texts for second reading. My appeal to fellow Members is to support this Law on the Judiciary at first reading, and from then on everyone will present their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u96	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u97	Dear Minister, Mr Chairman, honourable Members! It was repeatedly said during the debate in this House that the proposed bill has good and bad sides. He is undoubtedly good at the part governing the judicial self-government and undoubtedly weak in terms of the necessary change in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, in overcoming the severe disabilities of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Most of the speakers have come to the conclusion that the balance between the strengths and weaknesses of the bill is a step forward. They add something else to this balance is corrected by failing between first and second readings and the part related to the judge's self-government. We have heard this very clearly from the moment it was rejected by the Supreme Judicial Council and in the speeches of most political representatives of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, although it should not have a political role. Now it is time to say whether it is good or bad in principle if we assume that the Law survives between first and second readings, which we have every reason to doubt, including on the basis of today's debate. Our answer is clear. No, it is not a good law, which foresees simple changes in the area of judicial self-government and even more simple changes in the reform of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. It is not a step forward if we crown the judicial reform with an act that we hope will not be changed as early as next year, provided that we do not affect the sick part, given that we are not treating the disease. As with the amendments to the Constitution, with the amendments between first and second readings, and with this Law we would deepen the changes of the Bulgarian judiciary because of the refusal to name them because of the obvious lack of courage to affect them legally. There is no way such a reform will work, given that the main problem is not mentioned, and it is the lack of prosecution of corruption practices in both the judiciary and the prosecution and the executive. In all three spheres it is the responsibility of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office that it does not name the severe ten-year problem with the political role of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in the Bulgarian political life that it does not name the severe mixing of functions between the prosecution and the executive authority, which leads to the crucifixion of a common umbrella over corruption by the two most influential men in the country. And notice, I am not talking about Boyko Borisov and Sotir Tsatsarov, but about the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the Bulgarian Prosecutor General, whoever they are, because the problem exists long before Borisov and Tsatsarov. It is obvious that if we accept this Law, it will continue to exist much after Borisov and Tsatsarov. Thus, the worst problems of our society will remain unaffected regardless of the political change, because in Bulgaria political corruption, the placing of an umbrella on it and the unacceptable political role of the prosecution are a problem that exists, regardless of who is in the executive power. It changes, the problems remain, and so it will continue to be. It is no accident that 68% of Bulgarian citizens state their strong support for judicial reform on a Romanian model. Nothing of such judicial reform, hey so little has been advocated in this Bill and it was clear that it would be so ever since the editorials were adopted at the second reading of the amendment to the Constitution. As we saw a year ago, and I mentioned it twice already, the problem of whether this Law will remain half good, half bad, all good or all bad, is something we will not understand at all today. The key is between first and second readings. It is no coincidence that we have heard the requests of the ABB and the DPS. The parties that played the main role in the wet order, in failing the consensus on the Constitution. We are already waiting for their proposals, as well as the silent activity in the vote in support of GERB, which will come at second reading. This Law can become between first and second reading much better. It could get a lot worse. Between first and second reading will be decided whether it is a simple reform or a complete imitation. For this reason, MPs from Democrats for Strong Bulgaria and from the Civil Quota of the Reformation Bloc will not participate in the vote at first reading of this Bill. Because the question of what will happen to him is a question between first and second readings. Now, Mrs. Zaharieva, you will receive from our group one vote for the reasonable reforms in the judiciary that you are proposing, one vote against, because of the lack of change in the prosecution. There will be no other voices! [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u98	Please be quiet in the hall. If you have lines, now is the time. Here's your first line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kanev, if there is a statesman, a leader who has done the greatest damage to the judiciary, this is the former Chairman of Democrats for Strong Bulgaria Ivan Kostov. If there is a party that has become synonymous with the control of the judiciary in its three dimensions, the court, the prosecution and the investigation, then it is the SDS when its chairman was Ivan Kostov and when the prime minister of this country was Ivan Kostov again. Then he and the party he was running, the government that then ruled the state, went shopping, appointed all the top heads of the judiciary. So there was a total merger between the executive and the judiciary. And now from Democrats for strong Bulgaria to come out the biggest accusations and criticisms that if you see, someone else had changed the course of judicial reform in the wrong direction, it seems quite, quite, quite comical to put it mildly. When we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms adopted all amendments to the Constitution during the negotiations on Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, thanks to which amendments to the Constitution Bulgaria covered all the criteria and became a member of the European Union, neither did you nor did Democrats for strong Bulgaria have any participation in the power. Then, when the DPS participates in judicial reform, then things happen well. We will continue to have such a constructive approach because for us the European essence of Bulgaria is above all else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kanev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u101	Dear Mr. Kazak, I am not surprised that in the period of 15 years in which Mr. Kostov is out of power in Bulgaria, he is guilty that no judicial reform has happened. It's a well-known folklore. I won't deal with it at all. By the way, the CBI has repeatedly acknowledged that it did not succeed, our representatives in the then Union of Democratic Forces have not dealt with the responsibilities associated with judicial reform in 1997 when there was perhaps enough constitutional majority in this Parliament for bolder reform. The Union of Democratic Forces was then tempted to use the levers granted to political power by bad Constitution and bad laws instead of changing the bad Constitution and the bad laws and there is a huge sin for this reason towards the Bulgarian society. However, this period ended 15 years ago. For the next 15 years the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is officially in power, six years officially in power is the Bulgarian Socialist Party, another six years officially in power is the Political Party GERB. All of these parties usually together, including the Simeon II Movement, when he had the most MPs, usually in agreement, made the same fatal mistake that more than 15 years ago made the Union of the Democratic Forces, instead of changing the system, decided to take advantage of it in order to reach the current desperate state of both the judiciary and the overall government because of the ever-progressing and untrustworthy prosecution of political corruption. I will not dismiss your accusations of 15 years ago. I will say that they are fully valid today, and by today the full responsibility for what reform will be in the judiciary in Bulgaria those who will vote on this Law on the Judiciary, including the editorials that we expect between first and second readings, as I noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva asked for the word. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. I've heard a lot of constructive proposals and a lot of unfounded criticism of the bill. I'm only going to limit myself to the judges' self-government. I've heard things of the kind that the proposed bill will make it difficult for the job, delict the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the structure of the court is different from the structure of the prosecution. There, the chairman is first among equals. Let us not insult the judges and their administrative leaders by Presuming that they will not deal with this Law, that they will have no interest in taking part in the decisions that are important to the court, that it does not matter to them who their President or his alternates will be, that it does not matter to them what the workload rate for their courts will be. This part of the Bill was discussed in the Judicial Reform Council and was supported by a huge majority. I believe that the Bill has reached a balance between being held accountable by the President, enabling him to make unpopular decisions, and sometimes unpopular decisions, in relation to the protection of the public interest and at the same time not to become, or to have hidden forms of influence on the independence of judges in the relevant court. I'd also like to draw attention to the part about the Inspectorate. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, these are the powers of the Inspectorate, which were given by you by the Constitution. Lawyers with high professional and moral qualities should be elected to the Inspectorate. I do not accept the claim that they will not cope with the powers given to them under the Constitution. We must create all conditions for them to deal with, because they are already in force law in the Constitution. And our job was in the law to write down the procedures in detail. I do not accept that the Bill also contains vague texts of the type of reasonable doubt. A reasonable doubt, Mr. Georgiev, is a term that is used in at least five or six laws, which I can think of, and it is the procedural laws of both the PPC and the PPC, and a number of other laws, if I am not lying to the PDK. This is a term imposed in Bulgarian law for decades, and I think it is clear how it is applied. As far as the prosecution's concerned. Mr. Kanev, for your information, I have heard a lot of criticism that nothing is being touched, that a retreat is being made from the previous bill..................I asked my team to make a comparison between the Bill announced last year and the Bill, which is currently on your attention. In a tabular form it is very clear that this bill develops even more things. The control and audit activities carried out by the Attorney General and the administrative director have been criticised. I will give just one example in the previous bill, this text was not touched by the current law. For the first time we define this is for Mr. Andreev in § 1 of the Additional Provisions. There is an explicit definition of what the control and audit activities of the Attorney General may consist of. Read to see that it is carried out only for verification to see whether the power under the Constitution is applied exactly and uniform application of the laws. As any administrative manager, including the administrative head of the court may propose disciplinary proceedings in order to determine whether there is a breach of the relevant prosecutor. This shall apply, including to the administrative head of the court concerned. I hope you will support the Bill, because it has a clear objective described in detail in the motives. I absolutely agree, and she from all the political parties is said to be waiting, above all, by the Bulgarian society. I believe that a lot of work has been done in the working groups. I thank all those who participated in them: both the judicial authorities and the non-governmental sector and the lawyers and the other institutions that participated. I hope you'll support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u104	Thank you, dear Minister. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. Vote 131 MPs: 116, against 5, abstention 10. The bill was passed at first reading. We move on to the next item on our agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEEDING PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REGULAR DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE SUPERVISION OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF THE TRUDE, SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Importer of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on 24 June 2016 Before I give the floor to the President of the Commission to introduce you to the report, a procedure by the National Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-54, which was adopted in the Chamber at first reading on 23 June 2016. You remember that then, in order to extend the time and inability to make this proposal, it remained to be made in a normal plenary debate about the definition of Islamic fundamentalism. I ask for the maximum length of time for proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u106	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov for an extension of the deadline for the bill referred to by him to the maximum permissible period of such a period, which is four weeks. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. You have the floor, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe With regard to a Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 22 June 2016 discussed and discussed a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Upon conclusion of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 89, para.7 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 37, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute and presenting their documents. 1. Proposals as Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute shall be made by Members of the National Insurance Institute or by parliamentary groups. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute to the MPs and parliamentary groups. When a MP or a parliamentary group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation, it shall note that. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 21 days of the adoption of procedural rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as governor and sub-manager of the National Insurance Institute shall be accompanied by written arguments that justify the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) a diploma for completed higher education; (e) a criminal record; (f) a statement by the applicant that there are no circumstances under art. 39, p. 1, t. 2, p. 4 et c. 5 of the Social Security Code, according to template "Annex 3 to the Decision'; II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy no later than three days before the hearing of candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The media may send to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy questions to the candidates to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I " No 1, Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, or by e-mail: ktsdp@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the relevant requirements for taking up the post for which he is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates as manager and sub-sovereigner within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates as governor present their concept of the activities of the National Insurance Institute "up to 15 minutes per candidate." Candidates for a sub-manager present their concept of the activities of the National Insurance Institute within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates as governor and to the candidates for the sub-government in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly as candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall ask in summary the questions of the persons under art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by drafts and decisions for the selection of each candidate as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute. 9. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. The procedure does not stop when there is no candidate for one of the posts. V. Election of the Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 3. The importers of proposals shall present candidates as manager and sub-sovereigner within 2 minutes for each candidate. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Governor and the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. When one of the candidates for the respective position refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of that position. 11. If there is no candidate for any of the posts, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. The draft decision, Mr President, is attached: Annex 1 to the Decision, Annex 2 and Annex 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u108	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. We have heard the Draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Anyone? I can't see. Debates closed. We are voting for a decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor and governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Voting regime, honourable Members. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted, that is, the Decision has been adopted. We move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2016. Leading is the Committee on Budget and Finance, then the Committee on Energy. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, first, for procedure. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Plamen Dimitrov, Mr. Miroslav Tuev, Deputy Director of the NRA Directorate, and Head of the NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u111	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 602-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2016. At a meeting held on 16 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Bill supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Feizy Bekir The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. The bill supplementing the Value Added Tax Act (VAT) aims to prevent the possibility of abuse through effective prevention and combating tax fraud in the field of value added tax. The Bill proposes a mechanism under which, in carrying out the trade in liquid fuels, persons undertake to provide collateral in cash, government securities or in unconditional and irresistible bank guarantee for a period of one year before the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency. The obligation to provide collateral will arise when a taxable person for the current tax period carries out taxable supplies of liquid fuels with a total value of the tax bases of supplies exceeding 25 thousand. BGN, intra-Community acquisition of liquid fuels with a total value of the tax bases of acquisitions over 25 thousand. lv. or obtain liquid fuels released for consumption under art. 20 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses worth more than 25 thousand. lv. The amount of collateral will be 20 per cent of the tax base of taxable supplies, acquisitions or the value of liquid fuels for the previous tax period, but not less than 50 thousand. lv. Where the person has not made taxable deliveries, intra-Community acquisition or has not received liquid fuels released for consumption within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses with a total value of more than 25 thousand. lv. In the previous tax period, the amount of collateral will be determined on the estimated monthly tax base of taxable supplies/acquireds of liquid fuels or a value of liquid fuels calculated on the basis of 12 months but not less than 50 thousand. lv. The regime will apply to traders who are at risk, such as liquid fuel depositors in tax warehouses and intermediaries in the liquid fuel trade. The proposed changes are dictated by the high level of risk identified in the liquid fuel trade, as well as the fact that a large number of persons are involved in tax fraud schemes, which makes it extremely difficult and reduces the effectiveness of administrative control over debtors, while imposing a resource for detailed analysis of the risk of participating in tax fraud schemes of individual debtors. The 24-hour cycle of realization of goods from supplier to end-user is also characteristic of liquid fuel trading, which is an additional obstacle to conventional control activities. Tax fraud with liquid fuels also leads to significant losses for the state budget. The data from the risk analysis prepared by the NRA reduce tax liabilities by failing to account for sales revenues of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels by the debtors engaged in hard, liquid and gas trading show a trend in the budget damage of this risk of 55 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. For 2014, the assessment of the amount of this damage for 2015 amounts to 109 million. lv. The proposed mechanism is also a precautionary measure for correct economic operators from transactions with incorrect suppliers of liquid fuels involved in tax fraud schemes. The Law proposes that the National Revenue Agency should establish and maintain an electronic public register. 80, para. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, which will record the identification of the persons providing security, the amount of the security and the duration of the guarantee. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure legal certainty for the recipients of the supply of liquid fuels, that their suppliers have secured their VAT obligations and, in the case of covered tax by a supplier, the claim of the State not to refer to the recipient of the supply. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the proposed measure, it is possible to terminate the registration of a person who has not fully provided the security or has not provided the security within the time limit and the imposition of an administrative penalty. A transitional period has been envisaged under which, within one month of the entry into force of the proposed provisions, the persons to whom the regime relates should provide the necessary security for the supply of liquid fuels. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission united around the opinion on the principle of support of the Bill. After the discussion was held a vote with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the Draft for Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, No 602-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Energy Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time to the adoption of this bill by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u114	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 67 MPs: 57 against 8, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote. I'd like the Quaestors to invite the coworkers who are on the sidelines to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u115	Mr. Chairman, many colleagues have not been able to vote and are now entering. I ask you to re-vote this proposal, as in a very short time we will be voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u116	Thank you. I shall put the procedural proposal to the vote again. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 69 against 6, abstention 2. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Energy Commission on a Draft Law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 602-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2016. The meeting was held on June 23, 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Fazi Bekir Deputy Minister, Lyudmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Irena Hristova and Iskra Gurbelova, Head of Departments in the same Directorate, representatives of the National Revenue Agency, Vasil Panov. After short but meaningful debates, the Commission has taken a decision with 10 votes for the House, with no objection to the House and 6 abstentions to propose to the National Assembly that the Draft for Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u118	It's a tight report. Dear colleagues, debate regime. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go. President Ivan K. Ivanov (BSP LB): Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In principle, we support efforts to deal with tax fraud, support the efforts of importers to deal with this problem, but so the proposed bill with the main objectives it sets itself, we believe it will not be achieved and we need to seriously consider and work on these issues. What do importers think they're after? The first objective is to minimise budgetary losses in this way, insofar as it will create an effective guarantee mechanism to compensate for these losses, a demek with this loss to solve the problem of tax fraud. However, this is not going to happen because the guarantee that fuel traders will import is for a one-month period. With 12 months in which he will work with this bank guarantee, the unfair trader again at the end of the period can be forgiven with one guarantee of 50 thousand and the remaining 550 thousand budgets to lose them again. This will not happen and will be solved as a problem with the proposed changes. The second objective set is to ensure legal certainty for economic operators. This mechanism will not provide such legal certainty, because nowhere does the Law guarantee the unconditional right to tax credit of these economic operators, and that is correct because, if any, it means returning the tax account or this principle that acted and which proved to be not good. That is why we believe that the benefits expected from the introduction of this change in the Value Added Tax Act will not be achieved and tend to zero, but the costs that loyal traders will bear will be serious because, apart from purely administrative service of this activity, they will also pay bank guarantee fees in banks and interest rates in the order of a percentage and a half to three percent. It is inexplicable to us why, after this NRA fuel control system was introduced in 2013, where every movement of the NRA is controlled, reported, we cannot deal with this problem. According to the analysis, which was given and the valuation 418 companies are those who trade in fuels. They're wholesalers. I believe that the efforts should be more in control and that other options should not burden the loyal business at the expense of the unfair one. So between the two readings, we will make concrete proposals to really solve the problem and not just formally as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, fellow Members. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting at first reading the Value Added Tax Act, No 602-01-30, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 10 June 2016. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 74, none, abstention 11. The bill was passed at first reading. Honourable Members, tomorrow we are continuing with the first item of the Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda today, I am closing the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
