ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, according to our adoption of the weekly programme, item 1 for Friday, 17 June, which we should discuss and vote on, is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX. There are several bills. The first one at the time was with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, the second one - Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, the third one - Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the fourth one was by Mr. Georgi Kadiev, the fifth one - by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, the sixth one - Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, the seventh one was by Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Today, we are going to look at an extremely important point in plenary. Its importance is also supported by the fact that because of this point there will be no parliamentary control. In this regard, I am proposing that the debates and the vote on this point in today's programme be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 149 MPs: 55 against 56, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs "General Report on the Seven Bills. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-68, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs on 26 May 2016, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-69, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs on 27 May 2016, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-73, submitted by Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev on 31 May 2016, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-75, submitted by Radan Milenov and group of members of the National Assembly on 31 May 2016, Draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 654-01-07 At its meeting on 1 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the above-mentioned bills amending and supplementing the Election Code. The meeting was attended by: from the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria "Mrs. Natalia Acidova and Mr. Plamen Konov" (advisors on legal issues of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria); from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Mr. Ilarion Ilarionov" (a political adviser to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mrs. Milena Uzunova (a.k.a. Milena Uzunova), Head of Legal Representation at the Directorate of Legal Committees and NGOs. The bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-68, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, was presented by Daniel Kirilov. He stressed that with the amendment of art. 14 aims to improve the regime of voting outside the country in national elections by ensuring the exercise of active selective law by Bulgarian citizens outside the country on the basis of objective and clear criteria for the formation of polling stations. The Law aims to achieve a level playing field on a territorial basis and to ensure uniformity of the requirement for a certain number of applications for the opening of a section. In any case, this number is 60 voters who have submitted prior applications and a total maximum number of all sections formed in all the ways... for all countries around the world.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With regard to countries outside the European Union where sections may be formed, discretion and a proposal from the heads of diplomatic and consular representations shall be required and the decision shall be taken by the Central Election Commission (CEC). The decision shall be subject to appeal and judicial review under the general procedure in the Election Code. With the amendment of art. 13 The possibility of participation of organizations of Bulgarian citizens in the respective place in the formation of polling stations is restored. The aim is also to reduce the threshold for the formation of City Hall in the Law on the Administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the basis of which elections are scheduled for the mayor of City Hall from 400 to 350 people. Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-69, submitted by Mariana Georgieva Todorova and a group of MPs. The Bill proposes the introduction of a common criterion for all countries and all Bulgarian citizens around the world, without limiting the number and location of polling stations. It shall also aim to provide the possibility of forming sections without meeting the criteria for this on a reasoned proposal from the Head of diplomatic or consular representation, but subject to the relevant procedure and time limits. It is introduced the possibility that court proceedings in election cases can be carried out before administrative courts and that an amendment to the Law on Administrative and Territorial Device is proposed, with the criterion for opening a city hall to be 250 voters. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev presented the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-70, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs. He stressed that it aims to reorganise principle regulations for the production of elections such as: compulsory voting; reconciliation of elections and voting in a national referendum; organisation and preparation of elections and distribution of responsibilities and obligations between election committees and executive bodies; legislative fastening and settlement of data on voter activity on election day, as well as change in the criteria for the formation of mayorship. Bills for amendment and supplement of the Election Code, No 654-01-73, submitted by Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev, and No 654 01 75, submitted by Radan Milenov Kanev and a group of MPs, provide for the restoration of the repealed voting rules for Bulgarian citizens abroad, with the introduction of the possibility of opening automatic sections abroad depending on the previous turnout. When holding elections for MPs, the creation of the Thirty-Second Election Region outside the country is envisaged, allowing voters outside the country to vote for candidate lists and with a preference, not only for party and coalitions. The mandates outside the country are introduced to determine Adhok based on the number of voters on the election day. Mr. Yavor Haytov presented the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-76, submitted by Yavor Iliev Haytov and a group of MPs. The bill proposes the establishment of a electoral area abroad in order to increase the motivation for voting Bulgarian citizens outside the country and increase the total turnout. The announcement of candidates for president and vice president by the parties, coalitions and initiative committees is introduced not later than 60 days before the election day in order to provide a more informed choice to the Bulgarian citizens, as well as a change in the criteria for the formation of mayorship. Mr. Chetin Kazak presented the reasons of the Draft Law for amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-77, stressing that it aims to restore the previous rules for the formation of sections abroad, which have acted before the last amendments to the Election Code. The possibility for the election campaign to be conducted in another language is introduced and provides for the provision of translation in Bulgarian. It is also aimed at dropping the requirement to settle the elections for municipal councillors and mayors and elections for Members of the European Parliament. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Chavdar Georgiev, Svilen Ivanov, Dimitar Delchev, Philip Popov, Cetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. Kirilov expressed his opinion in support of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs and pointed out the reasons why he will not support the other bills amending and supplementing the Election Code in order not to extend or resolve the issues that have already been the subject of discussion and voting. Mr. Slavov pointed out that he will not support the bill with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs and importers Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. He stressed that he did not accept the proposed rejection of the remote electronic vote, for which great efforts have been made. Mr. Delchev expressed his support for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code submitted by Tsvetan Genchev and a group of MPs, noting that it enables diplomatic and consular representations to be able to assess where the sections are to be found, finally taking the decision by the CEC. Mr. Popov expressed his reservations regarding the powers of the CEC in relation to its duties under the current Election Code, stating that it does not have the necessary administrative, financial and human resources to deal with these new functions and duties. In response to the opinion expressed by the Central Election Commission regarding a proposal for amendment to art. 18, Kirilov offered to submit the text between first and second readings as adopted by the CEC. Mr. Kazak spoke against the introduction of an upper limit to the total number of polling stations. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 12 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - with 5 votes....... 1 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 2 votes....... 4 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 3 votes...... 4 votes against..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 4 votes....... 1 votes against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 2 votes........ 1 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - with 3 votes......................................................................................... and 3 votes..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We move on to the presentation of the bills on behalf of their importers. First at the time is the bill with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. He will be introduced to us by Mr. Kirilov. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u6	Madam President, honourable Members, I will briefly present our Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, which is mainly concentrated on the revision of art. 14, governing the regime for opening electoral sections abroad for the vote of the Bulgarian voters abroad. Following the final adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code and during the debates, some of the details and aspects of organizational and technical work on the formation and opening of polling stations were commented by escalating sharpness. It was also vetoed by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, which was discussed extremely deeply, carefully in both the Legal Committee and the plenary and in the coalition of parliamentary groups, which formed the ruling majority. The opinions of Bulgarians abroad, who actively participated in the process of public discussion of this regime, were taken into account. Aiming to achieve a maximum balance with respect to all requests, demands, claims, arguments, considerations, technical, legal and organisational opinions, with regard to the regime of opening polling stations abroad, the applicants of the 47th National Assembly, agreed and presented to your attention this Bill, again I say, which aims to create a common standard, common criteria for the opening of polling stations in foreign countries, in which to vote Bulgarian citizens. We have repeatedly highlighted that we have two universal common criteria with common action, with action in absolutely all countries in the world, without regard to their territorial or geographical formation. One criterion is the same number of applications for opening of sections at the initiative of voters. This number is 60 applications. Here we point out that, as early as the first Election Code, the one which was adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly, the application for the opening of these sections is submitted in electronic format, not specifically requiring its verification by means of a written medium or by certified signature by the applicant. Given that the Bulgarian community abroad is well organized and that there are organizations of Bulgarians abroad, this process and now, if you open the Internet, you will see that there are sites that notify Bulgarians abroad and offer them this organizational assistance to comply with the deadlines and prepare for submission of such applications. We point out that these applications are purely indicative. They aim to show the current status of the distribution of Bulgarians abroad and their preliminary readiness and desire to participate in the electoral process. Of course, here through the applications could indeed and perhaps in some cases tactical manipulations are being carried out in order to redirect the vote and its organisation to certain places, but again, this is no reason for us to give up the proposal for such a regime. Further, if I have the opportunity in the speeches, I will also point out the practice of other European countries, which are probably much more rational, much more pragmatic, much more fairly decided this regime so that it cannot be abused. The second criterion is the criterion for the maximum number of polling stations in any country in the world, whether it is a member of the European Union or outside the European Union. We have proposed that this maximum number of polling stations be 35. There was a lot of debate about how and how this number was defined for 35 sections. I point out that this number has its logic and its explanation of the current practice and data of the maximum turnout in the countries in which there was the greatest interest of the Bulgarians to vote. Such countries point to the UK, Spain, the United States of America, that is, this ceiling is consistent with the maximum activity in these countries. We therefore believe that this ceiling should not create difficulties for Bulgarians abroad, including in those countries where we have the maximum concentration of Bulgarians abroad, should not create a problem in the vote. With regard to the formation of the sections, we have two technical regimes - one that concerns countries in Europe and the other that concerns countries outside Europe. With regard to countries in Europe, the regime is maintained as it has been established and implemented back in time. The following procedure shall be provided for non-European countries. The main initiative in this procedure is for the identification, for the initial offer, to be on the part of the representative of the diplomatic or consular representation (DCP) to make a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission. We stress that this proposal must be motivated. We have illustrative criteria to motivate ourselves, but each representative, according to the specifics in the particular country, may set out considerations that he considers appropriate. The decision shall be taken by the Central Election Commission and shall be subject to judicial review of the general rules established for all disputes in the Election Code. We believe that this will ensure flexibility, compliance, control of society, including court control, with regard to the specific decisions on the specific types of elections for each of the countries. We believe that, in this case, we have achieved one criterion and we propose to establish a criterion of common universality. I would like to point out that we are also restoring the powers of representatives in the DCP in relation to communication with the organizations of Bulgarians abroad. We believe that this regime is fully adequate and can contain and effect the so-called automatic formation of sections. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We believe that automatic formation is formal, and here it is objective, with multiple forms of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u8	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable Bulgarian voters, highly respected Bulgarian people! Since yesterday, we've all been less than $1 billion. 200 million. lv. The Court of Arbitration at the International Chamber of Commerce in Geneva condemned Bulgaria to pay this money because of the short-sighted, unprofessional, irresponsible policy that the government of Boyko Borisov conducted and conducted, whether it brings number one or two. An irresponsible policy to which, unfortunately, the majority of the forty-first National Assembly and forty-third such were also called. Even worse news is that Arbitration has set a daily interest rate of 350,000. BGN, from the decision to the payment of the amount. I repeat, for you to hear it well, 350,000. lv. every day until the full amount is paid today! Today, for the first and only time the Prime Minister of Bulgaria has reason to seek responsibility, including criminal, from his predecessor who made a decision that resulted in huge damage in the country. An ancestor who managed the State from 2009 to 2013. "Boyko Borisov, Chairman of the Government Borisov 2, by Boyko Borisov, Chairman of the Government of Borisov 1. Today, all those who were involved in the unjustified by any economic or technological reasons a decision to terminate the project for the construction of Belene NPP in 2012 should be obliged to pay this huge debt. But, of course, they won't. Moreover, we at BSP are convinced that they will once again start to seek the blame where it cannot be found at all, will start to draw from nine wells of water to explain how harmful this project would be, if it were to take place, will scare us with Russian dependence, will seek corrupt practices where neither court nor prosecution find them. But whatever they say, the truth is only one and it sounds like this: Boyko Borisov, together with GERB and their associated parties, except that they buried the Bulgarians with an 18 billion loan, supplemented by more than a billion more for renovation of buildings, extended by another billion guarantee agreement, enriched with a billion and two hundred thousand levs of bond loan issued by BEH, and brought Bulgaria to the risk of returning money under operational programs, a risk, measured again by billions of levs, and we were happy with this arbitration claim for more than 1 billion levs. As the people with a scale work: billions of debts are not for anything, the important thing is to create the illusion that everything is in order, and the opposition deals with national irresponsible propaganda and lies. Can this audacity of Borisov and those in charge hide the truth? Perhaps they think that a hundred times the repeated lie becomes a truth that will become the smokescreen behind which to blur their own irresponsibility about the state of Bulgaria. History knows how they end up trying like this. But you continue to lie today, claiming that we have succeeded in the decision of arbitration, because it is only for a billion and 200 million levs. Gentlemen, the solution is for a billion and two hundred million and gives us the right to take advantage of only one reactor with its entire first contour. To remind you of the price of the two reactors with a complete first contour and safety system on the initially signed contracts with the Russian partner was just as much a billion and 200 million leva. We've already paid about 200 million leva for them. Your success, gentlemen, is doubling the original cost of a reactor, and I ask you: who lied to you that this is a success? Unlike you, colleagues of the ruling majority, we are very responsible for the future of Bulgaria and its people. We don't live from day to day. We have repeatedly warned that your policy will do us no good. We held a referendum on nuclear and Belene nuclear issues, and although you replaced the issue, the referendum was the first successful one and people gave a positive answer. But you disobeyed him, ignored the people's opinion, didn't listen to us. Now the ruling of arbitration is yet another proof of our rightness. The simple account shows that if you hadn't stopped this project today, we wouldn't have to pay those over a billion dollars, you wouldn't be talking about the site of the Belene NPP as buried money - you're actually right: they're buried, but from you, from your government headed by Boyko Borisov... And we would have had one of the most modern nuclear plants, we would have been in a world crisis with crushed investments being one of the few countries developing such a large-scale project. We would have committed more than 50,000 workers both at the plant and around it, we would have trained our own and foreign specialists, we would have been far ahead in our energy security and in our economic development, and in greener energy and in greater social policy opportunities. Unfortunately, because of your irresponsible actions, gentlemen in charge, today the slope is conditional, and our common debts already exceed 20 billion. leva. And so that there is no speculation as to who is actually responsible for stopping this project, I will quote to you a statement by your Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova: Let's not forget that Borisov is a prime minister who stopped three major energy projects of gas pipeline, pipeline and nuclear project, this is a strong political action which cannot be underestimated by our partners. In a global way, this is an extremely important solution. Until now, Bulgaria has been viewed as a possible hidden partner of Russia. Further, in the same statement, she states: "Now it has been seen that our position is really consistent. " She saw herself, Mrs. Bachvarova, she saw the consistent position for the accumulation of debt after debt and destruction of Bulgaria, she saw the consistent position in the readiness to pat you on the shoulder, a gesture that you prefer to the interests of Bulgaria. Do not miss the lies of the Minister of Energy from 2012 and 2013 and the Executive Director of the Financial Control Agency from the same time that there were no contracts and that there was no reason to worry about sanctions, nothing to pay, everything was wonderful, pink and happy. Not us, the facts today disprove them and if they have at least a gram of dignity, it would be right to leave the political scene of Bulgaria! Gentlemen of GERB, gentlemen of the ruling majority! Your policy, your government's actions are already becoming dangerous to the very existence of Bulgaria, and your government has become a devastating natural disaster! It is time for this government to walk lively, stronger, because otherwise it risks February 2013 to build a pink child's dream! [[Species from GERB: Eee!Species from GERB]] It's time for a new policy, a nationally responsible, fair, solidarity, with care for the common man! It is time for early elections if we want to keep at least the few remaining unscathed in Bulgaria! [[World and long applause by BSP LB. Screams from GERB, partial screams from RB. Scanding..BCP, BCP................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u9	Dear colleagues, after these applauses we will wake up and wish us pink dreams. [[Laughter]] On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Dobrev. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I apologize in advance that I will probably not achieve the degrees of tension that my colleague Ermenkov achieved, but I would like to tell you what short-sighted policy means because this stands for short-sighted policy. A short-sighted policy is the year 2000 to come up with a project to confirm the year 2007, which you don't need, but you're trying to satisfy some geostrategic measures in some countries. [[Applause from GERB]] , to start the project, and in 2008 to realize that this project is doomed to failure and I will explain to you in detail why, what is happening over the years. In 2007, we have a strategic investor RWE. During 2008 RWE wrote a number of letters to the Bulgarian National Electricity Company and said: "Well, we will provide half the money for Belene. Where's your half of the money, because this project is worth 10 billion. Euros? This project is worth 10.35 billion. Euros! Where are you going to get $5 billion? Euros to give your share? National power company's not responding. Something else is happening. The CEO then wrote a letter to the then Minister of Energy and said to him: RV is giving up the project because we cannot provide the money. We didn't pay an advance, but we signed Agreement 5. It is best that we do not pay an advance under this Agreement 5 because it will start the implementation of the Agreement. The CEO of the Triple Coalition warns the Minister of the Triple Coalition that this is a failure, that this will lead the country to the bottom. And do you know what the then Minister of Energy does? Twenty days later, he submitted a decision by the Council of Ministers, bringing 300 million out of the state budget. BGN to give them to the Bulgarian Energy Holding in order to pay the same money that should not have been paid! And if we go back to that 300 million. EUR if 300 million lv. were not paid by the government, by the budget of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which subsequently paid them to NEK to pay the advance under Agreement 5, today we would not have any arbitration. Not only today, we wouldn't have had it in 2009. Even though you knew there was no strategic investor [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] Even though you knew that this project could not be financed by either the National Electricity Company or Bulgaria, you transferred the advance and thus condemned the state to pay the money it paid in the next few years. [[Applause from GERB.]] And do you know where this letter is from the National Electric Company to the then Minister of Energy? The Department of Energy has been destroyed. There's no such letter! There's an entry number, but there's no letter! The legal electronic system is ten years old. The letter was destroyed, so the Secretary General of the Ministry was fired in my day. But we have a copy of the letter, a copy of the letter we keep. There's a letter like that in NEK. [[GERB lines]] And we can show it to you. [[Applause from GERB]] because the failure of the minister with this letter led to the situation today. And don't tell us about the Arbitration because the Arbitration has been repeating the position of the Bulgarian Government since 2012. When the agreement expires, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the completion of the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Notice, don't talk any more about contracts and IPC-contact because the Arbitration says there isn't one. There isn't one. You didn't sign one. You signed an agreement. There's no contract for Belene, there's no contract for a plant! [[Applause from GERB, lines from BSP LB. The speech of the MP Delyan Dobrev is accompanied by constant noise, lines, calls from BSP LB.]] You've decided to buy a car, you've ordered your engine, but you don't even have the money to pay for the engine. [[Voices from GERB: "Bravo!," lines from BSP LB.]] Arbitration's decision says: "On the Russian side's claim of 260 million. Euro penalties, we award zero. On the Russian side's claim for unauthorized equipment from Bulgaria of 170 million. Euros, the Arbitration says: "We award zero! " [[BSP LB.]] Escalation of 80 million. Euros. The arbitration says: The Bulgarian and Russian countries did not agree to escalate, so it is not due to 80 million escalation, but due to zero. [[BSP LB.]] The five hundred and fifty million were unpaid invoices between 2010 and 2012 and 550 million were manufactured equipment on expiry of the agreement. When you talk about short-sighted energy policy, Belene is not the only example.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u11	Why did you pay if you didn't? You won't, will you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u12	"Belene" is not the only example.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u13	There's no contract, is there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u14	Should we remind ourselves of the contract with "Gazprom "?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u15	There's no contract, is there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u16	Should we remind ourselves of the contract with "Gazprom "? [[Strong noise and a line from BSP LB.]] For the contract with Gazprom we had three intermediaries, only 5% of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u17	Mr. Gechev, please calm down! Mr. Gechev, please calm down! [[Replications of the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Speech to the tribune, the way it should be taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u18	Out, out!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u19	No one interfered with Mr. Ermenkov while he gave his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u20	The contract with Gazprom, in which you bought the gas from intermediaries of 300 million. $ a year higher, remember? Do you remember him? By the end of 2012, you were buying gas through intermediaries with 300 million. That's more than a year! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] As of January 2013, there has been no such contract. When we talk about short-sighted policy, gentlemen of the BSP [[GERB and BSP LB lines]] It's a short-sighted policy. It's short-sighted politics! Let's also remember the American power plants. The most guilty of these American power plants and the high price of electricity are from BSP, not Kostov. [[(Strong noise, shout and applause from GERB. Screams from BSP LB: "Eee!"]] You're the most guilty of BSP! Do you know why? Do you know why?! Because the agreements were signed in 2001, but there are no plants until 2007. Why aren't there any power stations? Because those offshore companies can't withdraw loans. And do you know what you're doing, Mr. Rumen Ovcharov, who in the morning blames the government for everything? [[BSP LB.]] He's signing a special bet. Do you know what he's doing? He's signing a special bet and betting people's bills! [[Applause from GERB.]] He's betting $14 billion. lv. People's accounts [[Applause from GERB]] So these offshore companies can build both power plants. If there wasn't this particular bet, there wouldn't be any power plants. So for these plants you are much more guilty than those who signed long-term contracts. [[BSP LB.]] When we talk about forward-looking and short-sighted energy policy, you can see what this government does. Because energy efficiency projects are important for this country. It is important for this country to explore the Bulgarian Black Sea, to get its own gas. Because, first of all, this gas is going to be much cheaper. Secondly, huge concession fees will be included in the budget. So just don't talk to us about short-sighted energy policy. Thanks to you is this account right now and we are paying your account. I will remind you once again in 2008... [[Applause and screams: "Bravo, bravo!" by GERB. Line on the left: "No contract have you paid! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u21	Colleagues! Excuse me, Mr. Dobrev! Sorry to interrupt. We are currently in a declaration procedure on behalf of a parliamentary group. Such a choir replicating from a place has never been. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Order, please. Order, please! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I understand that some unnatural excitement has taken over you, colleagues on the left, but I ask for some simple rules of order and discipline. Proceed, Mr. Dobrev. [[Replications of the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I'll remind you once more. In 2008, your Director of the National Electric Company wrote a letter to your Minister and said: "With RWE we are at the curve pear, we cannot prove where we will get our money. Agreement 5 hasn't started because we haven't paid the advance. We don't have the money to pay the advance, and we better not pay it until we secure the funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u23	I'll take it. And you tell me why you were paying...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u24	And instead of the minister saying, "Until we secure the funding, we will not start the payments, what does the minister do then? He submitted a decision to the Council of Ministers and transferred 300 million from the budget. BGN, just to start this project, then we will think about what we will do, despite the opinion and official letter of your director of the National Electricity Company, and not of anyone else! Thank you. [[Reply from BSP LB: Why didn't you stop the payment? Claps and shouts by GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u25	Colleagues, let's get back to the Election Code. [[The National Representative Tasco Ermenkov approaches the stands and wants the floor.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u26	It's a personal explanation! He mentioned that I was raising the temperature. I have a right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u27	Wait a minute! Wait a minute! [[People representatives Tasco Ermenkov and Delyan Dobrev are at the stand next to the bank of President Tsetska Tsacheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u28	I never mentioned Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u29	You mentioned me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u30	The name...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u31	You mentioned me: Mr. Ermenkov raised the temperature of the room... [[Reply of MP Delyan Dobrev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u32	Colleagues! Literally Mr. Delyan Dobrev mentioned Mr. Ermenkov's name in connection with the fact that I think it is indisputable that you previously presented the declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u33	If you'd mentioned BSP, I wouldn't mind. But I haven't read a statement on my behalf.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u34	All right, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u35	So I ask you very much to give me the opportunity!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u36	You felt offended...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u37	Yeah, about him...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u38	For reading a statement on behalf of the BSP, is that it, Mr. Ermenkov? [[Strong noise, applause from GERB. The line of the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! What Mr. Speaker said before me was about raising the temperature of the room. Yeah, sure, when you're sick, I get a fever. Is it my fault that you're doing shit in the energy sector? [[Loud noise, shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u40	It's a personal explanation. Mr. Delyan Dobrev personally recognized himself in the application of Mr.... [[Applause from GERB.]] You want the way you run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u41	Just so we're clear, I'm taking a procedure in the way it is. [[Relations and noise in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u42	In the manner of conduct! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u43	Dear Madam President, no one in the GERB group was recognized by Mr. Ermenkov's personal explanation. Maybe their group is recognized as sick. [[BSP LB lines]] with the Energy Strategy. However, I would like to draw attention to you in the manner of conduct that you cannot give the floor to Members of the National Assembly who are speaking essentially and insulting Members of the National Assembly who is sick and who is not. We have a doctor here, he can examine us all if we decide. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u44	Mr. Dobrev, I accept your remark, but I cannot forbid MPs from sharing their health from the parliamentary platform. [[Loud noise and shouting from GERB.]] In the manner of conduct, I suppose, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go. [[Relations and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking procedure the way it is. And yesterday, I made such a procedure................................................................................... I hope, and you agreed yesterday not to allow such a violation of the regulations and the talks...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u46	Resign!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u47	Anyone who's felt affected and I'm affected, gentlemen on the left...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u48	The Chairman's resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u49	You gave us one big energy helmet, and now you've got us this energy helmet again. [[Radio and laughter in GERB.]] So I'm very offended and very offended. I also made a documentary on this: the Great Energy Slam. I gave it to you, I will give it to you again, so you can look at it and see what you have done to the Bulgarian people. It's not 550 million, it's three billion and five hundred million!? This is the account that the Bulgarian people pay for you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. On behalf of the importers of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code Mrs. Todorova and a group of MPs, Mrs. Todorova will present the Bill to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present to your attention the proposals of the Alternative for the Bulgarian Revival for amendment of the Election Code. Madam President,... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u52	I ask for order in this House and mutual respect for our fellow Members who present their Bill at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u53	I'm gonna try to talk conservatively a little bit to calm down the passions. I hope I can make it. Undoubtedly, the cornerstone of the debates on changes in the Election Code has become art. 14, which is why the first change that I will focus on is precisely on this article. We propose to introduce a common criterion valid for all countries, for all Bulgarian citizens around the world, without limiting the number and location of polling stations if there are 40 applications submitted. We reduce the criteria to one common to all Bulgarian citizens, as in recent months Bulgarians abroad have shown themselves as the most active and awake civil society, as leaders of opinion. In every Bulgarian family there is a representative who is abroad. We believe that these rights should be respected and a common criterion should be established. Everything else is considered a form of discrimination. We even offer relief of this norm. If there are no 40 applications, sections could be opened if there is a reasoned proposal from the heads of diplomatic and consular missions. I think this is one of the most liberal norms offered in all the submitted bills, including those offering us a return to the norms in force until a few weeks ago by the old Election Code. There are regulations for 40 applications if there is no consular or diplomatic representation, and 20 if there is. We believe that this further complicates the situation and must have one criterion. The Code of Elections adopted from 2011 and 2014 provides that complaints from the decisions of the Central Election Commission by decision of the Municipal and Regional Election Commission are to be dealt with in the Supreme Administrative Court. We propose that they be viewed in the Regional Administrative Court in view of the faster administration of justice, the reduced time limits, the clearer and fairer processes, because at this time the legislation is difficult if the ruling of the Municipal or Regional Election Commission.. Ruse, for example, the party to the case must appear before the Supreme Administrative Court. So we propose that this norm be eased and seen before the District Administrative Court. The Acting Election Code states that the failure to sign the minutes by a member of the committee concerned does not result in its invalidity. The recent elections have shown that we have witnessed massive protocols without signature. Therefore, we propose that the non-signing of the protocols, outside of several prescribed cases, which we have described in our Bill, should lead to their invalidity. This will ensure fair and fair electoral process and reflect objective results. The latest amendments concerning changes in art. 242a for the registration, for us, is discriminatory and complicates the return of electoral rights. We believe that another form of incentive or sanctions should be considered, but not withdrawal of electoral rights, so we propose that this article be dismissed. The other changes we propose to align the entry thresholds for the national and European Parliament. Currently in Bulgaria, the threshold for entry into the European Parliament is one of the highest, about 5,8 " 5.9%." We use the experience of the other countries where the threshold for national and European Parliament is aligned and only then the mandates are redistributed. We expect support from smaller parties, as this will lead to wider representation than they do. We propose that the criteria for opening a city hall be 250 voters, as 100 is too small and this leads to a lot of administrative costs for small villages to have mayors. However, there are numerous settlements in which residents are about 250, and we believe that they should be represented. In short, these are our proposals. I hope they'll be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. During time chronologicality follows the bill submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Here you are on behalf of the importer. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I present to your attention the bill submitted by the MPs of BSP left Bulgaria. No 654-01-70. First, let me remind you that about a month and a half ago, the ruling majority adopted numerous amendments to the Election Code, and now we have to re-make changes to the amendments already adopted. In view of the spirit of constructiveness and sanity, let us focus on what can be done today. We have always defended the constitutionally established basis of the electoral process by BSP left Bulgaria. We've always been about democratic, free and fair elections. Our proposals also during previous changes, and are now based on this position. Out of the ten paragraphs that our bill contains, five or six are principle regulations relating to the basic, principled legal texts of the Election Code. More specifically, what do we propose? Firstly, we define the exercise of the selective right of every citizen as his public debt. We agree on that. I don't think there can be an argument. We do not need to regulate it as an administrative obligation. In the exercise of selective law, it must be directly, personally and on the principle of a single voter. That's our offer. On this point, I suppose we will find the necessary consensus. Secondly, we offer flexible regulation for the combination of national elections and national referendums. These are two different acts of direct democracy, two different actions by the sovereign and they must be carried out simultaneously only if there are imperative and exceptional reasons for doing so. It is normal, as in Switzerland, that we all point to this country as an example of direct democracy in which these two sovereign volitions are different and are never allowed to be mixed on an election day. I repeat, what we propose as regulation is flexible, does not rule out for important reasons to reconcile the two acts of the sovereign, but let the principle be both volitions on different days. By the way, in Switzerland they have given up the mandatory vote only to mention this since the time after World War II. They thought it couldn't be an obligation. They assumed that the voter should have the freedom not to vote. Our third principle proposal for a new legal regulation is related to the responsibilities and involvement of the various authorities in the conduct of elections. The Executive Board shall not be liable for any direct participation in the carrying out of activities of an organisational and technical nature. In these activities it should not only be a supporter, but should be a direct contractor and be obliged to carry out such activities, of course, following the instructions of the electoral committees. It is natural that ministers, regional governors, mayors will not personally perform organizational and technical activities. They must be obliged to designate responsible officials who are directly involved in such activities and directly responsible for the outcome of such implementation. I think such principle regulation should also find consensus in this House and be supported. This is something that is based on the current practice. Why did we, with the amendments, accept that the executive will have only supporting functions and put all responsibility on the electoral committees? They shall have neither the administrative capacity nor the staff nor the budget for this implementation. Our fourth legislative proposal is in the direction of expanding the publicity of voting data in order to activate the voter and achieve greater representativeness. The communication of data on turnout is a positive practice established in Bulgaria for years, and it should have its more detailed legislative settlement. These data must be communicated not only by the Central Election Commission, but also by any sociological agency should be able to freely disseminate data on voter turnout as it identifies during the election day. Moreover, the Central Election Commission should be obliged both to announce the end of the election day and also to announce by one hour after that the election turnout data to be clear how many voters have participated in the respective election, not to wonder and wait ten days after that to say: "Well, there were so many. Fifth, of course, we propose to cancel the electronic remote vote. This is our consistent position. We believe that it is unconstitutional and incompatible with the voluntary, authentic and secret of the vote. That's definitely for us. Obviously this position is already shared by the President because he asked the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of a question in the national referendum and I think the Constitutional Court will clearly rule. And sixth, honourable Members, we propose that we return to that wider direct democracy, which is expressed in the possibility that people from small settlements, who represent an independent city hall, choose their mayors. It is not clear why you increased the quantitative criterion four times, from 100 you jumped to 400. And here all sorts of arguments that, you see, because of a small number of settlements where there wasn't enough living in them and so on, they're irrelevant. If you decide, we can include certain conditions, for example, for number of votes voted, percentage voted and thus clear the exceptions, and what have we done? We restricted the principle and deprived people of directly electing mayors because of some exceptions. This is the wrong approach. You can't break principles because of exceptions! A more convenient regulation of preferences could have been introduced, and then any exceptions related to inaccurate reporting of those living in the settlements would have been overcome. And to conclude, honourable Members, I think we will all agree and unite around the view that the Election Code is indeed this Law, which is charged with the greatest political charge. It most directly reflects the political interests of parties and coalitions. This is the Law, which presupposes the functioning of the state authorities and democracy in our country, and therefore we must have a very serious, responsible, principled attitude towards its amendments. What we from BSP left Bulgaria are offering you is a reasonable, responsible approach. Alternatively, two approaches are possible: to look for the technology of democracy or, as I think, some colleagues, mostly from the right, to go to the other approach and to look for the technology of electoral manipulation in order to secure some advantages for the future elections through the Election Code. This is generally unreasonable, in principle incorrect. Let us be responsible and look for technologically most sensible solutions relating to the functioning of democracy. I think that's exactly what the voter is waiting for, and that's the only way we're going to get public trust back. We from BSP left Bulgaria are doing everything possible legal regulation for the elections to improve. I hope that you, too, colleagues from other political parties, will do the same and support these principle regulations, which I have just explained and which we are proposing again. This will benefit democracy and statehood. This will be essential in principle and not based on any vague accounts for votes abroad. The most important are the votes in Bulgaria and ensure free and fair elections for the Bulgarian citizens. Be with us in this effort. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Really, your time is up. Next bill will be submitted by Mr. Georgi Kadiev at a time. Mr. Kadiev, you have the opportunity to argue as an importer your legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say that the actual author of the texts is the Administration of the Ombudsman of Bulgaria. [[GERB lines.]] After meeting with representatives of the Bulgarian community, I am merely a carrier of these texts because I recognized them and fully share their philosophy. As far as I can see, then colleagues from another parliamentary group have done the same thing. The reason I share this philosophy is very clear and this is my understanding that Bulgarian citizens abroad should be facilitated to vote. They must be stimulated to vote. Unfortunately, recent amendments to the Election Code have made this vote very difficult, and I am actually trying to restore the texts and the way in which the electoral sections have been built and voted in the last three choices: in the elections of the European Parliament 2014, in the 2014 parliamentary elections and in the 2015 referendum. This means first, restoring the right to automatic sections, which made it extremely easy for the administration itself, because it led to predictability. The foreign ministry, the Ministry of Interior and the CEC could programme two months before the elections where there would be sections abroad. Secondly, it is easier to create new sections in the presence of 40 declarations. And thirdly, it is extremely important - the creation of a multi-mandated electoral area abroad, which, as you recall, went to the Legal Committee as a vote and then suddenly disappeared in the Chamber. The reason for the creation of a multi-mandated electoral area abroad is simply to avoid the confusional situations of casting votes in Bulgaria in an opaque way and colleagues in parliament who have entered with 700 votes. I think that the creation of such a multi-mandated electoral area as there are in several countries in Croatia, in France, in order for other countries, is the right step as the proposal we are making is for the basis of the number of MPs in this multi-mandant electoral area to be the result of the last two parliamentary choices, the average of which they are. I call on you to vote for these changes because in the end, each of us has to take into account whether we want Bulgarians abroad to be attached to Bulgaria, do we want them to vote in Bulgaria or do we just think of them as some kind of smoked meat that sends money to our relatives from there on should not be interested. Since my understanding is that they are national capital, and since the state does not do much for them, it does not fund who knows how many schools abroad, nor any special cultural events, at least give them that. There is no reason to fear the sections in Turkey, as I understand that this is the main argument to make it difficult to vote abroad. The practice shows another thing -- 2013 voted 66,000 people in Turkey, 2014, under easy conditions, voted 62,000. The way to increase the vote abroad -- not in Turkey, but in Western Europe, in America -- are precisely these facilitated conditions. And he showed it to me in 2014. The voter's growth rate is 67%. What could be better than that?! Therefore, fellow Members, I call on you to vote abroad is of benefit to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Next is a bill submitted by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. Mr. Stanimirov, you will develop the proposal you have submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable representatives of the public councils of Bulgarians abroad who are watching us on the Internet! In short, we propose to return the rules for forming voting sections abroad, which acted in the 2014 elections and This Decision shall The second thing we propose is the introduction of 32 Mir abroad, as well as rules to determine the burden of mandates. Last week, we all looked at the committees on the National Security Status Report. In these 100 pages there were many important things, but I am sure that what has caught each of us by the throat is the state of the demography of the Bulgarians. It's amazing! On 24 May the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences delivered data on the Bulgarian language around the world. According to this data, 15 million people on earth speak Bulgarian. That's more than twice as much as we are in the country. More than once here, from the stands, we have commented on the unacceptable influence of foreign countries in Bulgarian politics and public life, we have talked about Turkey, about Russia, about other countries. In fact, what sets these countries apart is that they have a very clear national agenda, they have state objectives that pursue consistently. In this background Bulgaria seems a country with no national goals, no dreams and no long-term ideas for the future. Our politicians continue to repeat the mantra of the pre-accession period and their goal is to be loyal allies of their allies. This cannot be a high goal to motivate the unity and prosperity of a nation, others must be national goals. There is no higher national goal than this "Bulgaria" to be the homeland of all Bulgarians on earth, of all these 15 million. Every Bulgarian everywhere in the world feels that his country is behind him and that he feels empathetic to him, to his nation through participation in the democratic process of elections. The electoral code is a law of very high order. It stands much higher than the Beekeeping Act or the Gambling Act or the agricultural laws that we vote on every day. It affects the fundamentals of democracy. That is why, when we vote on the Election Code, we cannot afford to be guided by party interests. I fully share the concerns and concerns of many colleagues about the abuses that are being committed and are possible to be committed in a foreign country by its institutions at sections on its territory. These are legitimate concerns that we need to cross, but the way to limit these abuses is by sending Bulgarian civil servants and representatives of our parties to ensure a real democratic process. There can be no way to limit the right of all Bulgarians abroad to vote. We cannot turn all the millions of Bulgarians around the world into a living shield against these abuses. This gives away a commitment, administrative and political helplessness, which is not acceptable. The right to choose is a supreme democratic value. There are countries around the world that have provided the opportunity to vote, including astronauts who are in an orbit around the earth, and sailors in submarines in the open sea. Against this background, you want to limit the voting sections to 35 for each country - 35 for the dwarf - Luxembourg and 35 sections for the whole United States - where there are hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians. Hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens voting in 35 sections that is what you want to offer us today. Honourable Members, we are about to adopt another narrow-minded decision that will disgust the people of parliament and distance them from the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u60	Mr. Stanimirov, present your bill. The comments, the debate on the others shortly after the debate was opened. You are now in the mode of presenting your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u61	We have time to spare the disgrace of the forty-third National Assembly. Our proposal is to bring back the rules from 2014 and 2015 for forming sections abroad and to introduce 32 MIR. Our foundation in our deep conviction is that Bulgaria is not a complete democracy, if even a Bulgarian around the world does not have the opportunity to participate in this democracy, and Parliament is not fully representative, until the millions of Bulgarians around the world have their representative in this Chamber. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. The next bill is with importer Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I will refer briefly to the proposals for amendments to the Election Code as we, Members of the People's Union, have tabled them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u64	There is no such parliamentary group. The group is called the BDZ-People's Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u65	Thank you for your clarification. They're grouped in total at five points. What is different from what the speakers have said before me is that we are paying particular attention to the legal proceedings that are being developed in the course of the electoral legislation and the decisions of the various electoral committees. Let us be clear, honourable Members, that, for the most part, the decisions of the Central Election Commission are taken by a two-thirds majority. At present, the legislator has provided for a fiction "when there is no such majority, the decision is considered lawful, but it is essentially not accepted and subject to judicial appeal. In case-law, there are cases where such appeals happen, notice, not once, not twice, but four times. I am also saying this in the spirit of our judicial reform, which is intended, and our common goal is to have a clearer, shorter, more precise and faster trial. This is the thing that distinguishes our bill from the ones marked so far. The other thing we have taken the trouble of importing is the creation of an area abroad and this is due to the several meetings held, including the Ombudsman of the Republic, so I ask you to support this part of our proposal as well. The last two points before I graduate, Madam President, are for the establishment of a special register in the Central Election Commission, in which political parties, coalitions and initiative committees 60 days before the election date to declare their nominations for president and vice president. Our reasons for this proposal are that Bulgarian citizens should be well informed enough who has the self-esteem, mood and authority to run for Head of State. Last but not least, please note that this is a long enough period of time when all Bulgarian citizens, in all district cities, in all smaller municipalities would have the opportunity to meet candidates for president. Last, before I graduate, it is our legislative initiative that the settlements with 250 and more than 250 inhabitants have the opportunity to elect their mayors for the mayors. I consider this to be fair and responsible to the Bulgarian voters because it is in no way necessary for the residents of a small village to be placed almost as a second category of citizens and to be deprived of their right to choose their own mayor of the city. I also ask you to respect the fact that this is actually part of the activation of civil society, because mayors of city halls that we very often ignore are closest to people, to their daily pain, problems and care. That's short on our bill. Once again, I ask for your support, and especially in his part of the proceedings, which, believe me, needs changes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. The last bill is with importers Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. He will be introduced to us by Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I present to you the bill that we have tabled, which aims to restore to a large extent the texts concerning the conditions for opening sections abroad, as they were during the current Election Code, as it seems to us that they, compared to all the other draft laws, with all the ideas that are launched here, are the most democratic texts and, to the greatest extent, allow our countrymen abroad to exercise their fundamental constitutional right to vote, of course, with small exceptions. We believe that when a text has proven to work well when it has proved that thanks to it every Bulgarian citizen or maximum number of Bulgarian citizens abroad have the opportunity to exercise their right to vote, this text should not be changed. That is why we were furiously opposed to all the proposals and ultimately to the text voted on by the last Election Code, which was voted on, which the President returned, which was re-voted, which caused the huge discontent of our countrymen abroad because of the drastic way in which he restricted their constitutional rights and was ultimately driven by the ruling majority. That is why we propose to restore the text that has been acting so far to enable our diplomatic and consular representations to assess according to the specific situation, according to how many Bulgarian citizens have exercised their right to vote in past elections, to propose without any restrictions the disclosure of as many polling stations as is necessary for the country concerned, to be distributed in a way that will make it as easy for the Bulgarian community in the country concerned to exercise its right to vote. We would also like to use this occasion to state the issue of amendments to the Election Code, which recently ended another OSCE research mission, which preceded their decision on whether to send and in what form to send a possible observation mission for the upcoming presidential elections. During this study mission, OSCE representatives met with all parliamentary groups. At our meeting with the OSCE representatives, we specifically pointed out that the Bulgarian Parliament stubbornly, for years, refused to comply with one of the main recommendations of the OSCE concerning our electoral legislation, namely the unacceptable limitation of the right to election campaign in a language other than the official one. Despite the fact that not only the OSCE but also the Venice Commission have repeatedly put as their main recommendation that such a restriction is contrary to fundamental democratic principles, with the achievements of European law, the Bulgarian legislature refuses to abolish this ban in the Election Code. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms hope that this time, however, the Bulgarian Parliament has taken on the task of correcting its mistakes in the past................................................................................... the time to correct its mistakes in the past........................................................................................................................................................ Last but not least, we propose once again to take advantage of this golden opportunity to be removed from the Election Code and another extremely undemocratic restriction on the fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens, namely the one introduced years ago so-called "seditivity" which, in a defined way, deprives hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens of their right to vote. When the President returned the latest amendments to the Election Code, he developed long and wide in his motives that fundamental constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens could not be restricted, that they could not be deprived of either by introducing unacceptable conditions of a legal nature, or by introducing practical difficulties to their right to vote. We, accepting these arguments, believe that they are so much more significant and could be used in support of the thesis that when the principle of sedentary is introduced, it in no less unacceptable and drastic way deprives hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens in an irreversible manner of their right to exercise their constitutional right to vote in local and European elections. Although the Constitutional Court refused to declare it unconstitutional, something that we cannot accept, the Constitutional Court has proved more than once that, in the name of other considerations, it is sometimes ready to put aside the spirit and letter of the Constitution, it does not ever want to comply with international norms and standards for the protection of fundamental human rights. In this case, the Constitutional Court was not at the height of its position in the Bulgarian institutional system. Therefore, the Bulgarian Parliament must correct even this error made by the Constitutional Court by once and for all removing this principle of secession so that it can prove that it is above the narrow party interests, that we have put aside prejudices and stereotypes of thinking from the past, that we are not subject to xenophobic, nationalist and anti-democratic influences and ideologies, whether they originate from our coalition partners or not. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope you will support our bill if you wish to claim to be democratic thinking politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr. Lutvi Mestan. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in the deliberations to also request a statement. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The official, written motives of the bill submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs I open a brace, I comment on this Law because it will obviously be adopted by the new ruling majority: GERB, parts of the Reformation Bloc, Patriotic Front and BDZ-NS is a brutal expression of political demagogy and even more brutal gavra with the intellect of Bulgarian society. In the reasons we read that this bill aims to improve the voting regime outside the country and to ensure the active selective right of Bulgarian citizens abroad. However, the effect of the application of the Law will be absolutely contrary to the stated objectives and motives, because if the recently adopted amendments to the Election Code discriminate against all Bulgarian citizens abroad, the proposed new texts will partially solve the problem of some of them and will reduce discrimination only to the Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey, i.e. the Turks. This means that the Law aims at the ugliest possible discrimination that on an ethno-religious basis. That's how your project roughly violates art. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution. What are you actually telling us with the proposal that the number of sections in certain countries should be limited to a maximum of 35s? I've got a schedule in my hand. [[Shows it.]] Here in ascending order is given the maximum number of sections opened so far in the countries outside Bulgaria, without Turkey. The maximum number of exposed sections, without the Republic of Turkey, is just as much as you are proposing today. This blue line of restriction [[shows it]] leaves out the possibility of revealing as many sections as there have been so far, only in the Republic of Turkey -- minus 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u70	It's not enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u71	That's right, it's not enough! However, this means that your message is absolutely clear. You say this, ladies and gentlemen: brothers Bulgarians, calmly! We give you the maximum so far, yours is not lost. We'll only hit the Turks by reducing the sections four times. No demagogic contraptions, such as a common sense of equality, will take this cruelly correct assessment, because the subject of the Law, as well as the subject of selective law, are not the territories, but the citizens. Secondly, because this bill of yours is a continuation of a fascist line in the rule of the country, which on Wednesday also passed a law banning clothing, concealing or hiding the face. Discriminating parts of the Bulgarian nation because of their ethno-religious difference is no longer just extreme nationalism, but Nazism, frank ethnosis. The bill of Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs is another fascist price that today's power pays to the Patriotic Front in the name of its survival. This Bill is a new, not less ugly revival process, which aims to break away forever from the homeland banished in May 1989 nearly half a million Bulgarian citizens from the communist dictator whose monument his current successors less than a month ago presented flowers and wreaths as a sign of retrograde gratitude. By chance or not, this act coincided with the anniversary of the banishment. How can we read this Bill, except as a legislative extension of the Nazi intention of extruding Turks from public-political life? Today you write the darkest page in the contemporary history of Bulgaria, with one swing you delete the definition of....................................................................................... We will, of course, be against it. Of the seven bills we will support three. First of all, Radan Kanev's Bill because his colleagues from the DSB remained completely true to the principle of preserving the liberal regime for opening sections abroad in order to ensure unconditionally the right of every Bulgarian citizen to participate in national elections as an expression of his direct spiritual relationship with Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. We can't say the same about the DPS Bill. We will support it, of course, but one thing your words say, another is actions. Today's discriminatory provisions are the result of the rejected proposal of colleagues from the GAB and the civil quota for the establishment of a special Thirty-second multi-mandated electoral area abroad, which took place precisely at the initiative of the DPS in union with the final nationalists, the left forces and GERB. This bill puts the democratic legitimacy of GERB and the Reformation bloc to the test. It tests the democratic maturity of the Bulgarian community abroad, without the Republic of Turkey, after their problem is partly solved................. whether they will show solidarity with their fellow citizens from the Republic of Turkey. Last but not least, because the adoption of the Law will violate art. 6, para. 2 of the Constitution, this is a serious democratic test for the Head of State as well as whether he will refer to the Constitutional Court. I feel real shame for you, Mr. Tsvetanov and those who would support this bill. I'll leave you to the court of history, but the court doesn't know the appeal. History will condemn you for this criminal act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u72	Thank you, Mr. Mestan, you've been a very time-consuming man. Any lines to Mr. Mestan? [[National representative from GERB wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] There's a procedure for lines. I'll give you an opportunity in the manner of conduct. First line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mestan, I am really surprised that in your kind of gradation, which you failed to continue, you put the Radan Kanev Bill first. Do I hear you right?! Radan Kanev before the Law of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms! [[Radio.]] What else is in Radan Kanev's Bill besides repeating the texts of the previous Election Code, one to one that coincide with our proposals. In Radan Kanev's Bill there is not a word about restoring the right to campaign in a language other than the official one we propose. In Radan Kanev's Bill there is not a word for the abolition of the unconstitutional principle of sedentity, which deprives hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, namely in the Republic of Turkey, to vote in local and European elections. In Radan Kanev's Bill there is only the creation of sections abroad, as they were created under the current Election Code. I don't understand why you put Radan Kanev's Bill in your gradation in the first place?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u74	Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u75	Madam President, Members of Parliament. Mr. Mestan! The idea that democracy is more real, the more out of control it is, and that some elections are as real as more people participate in them, can be challenged not only by this tribune. Yes, you are! There is no theorist of democracy who will accept your speech. The position from which you accuse the Bulgarian Parliament of lack of democracy, the Bulgarian political parties on a broad basis, there is no reason, will not be understood. The Bulgarian society is tolerant and in this respect I will give you only one fact. A number of countries from the so-called so-called "developed democracies" have no dual citizenship, Mr. Mestan, but this does not make them undemocratic. You are fundamentally confusing the issue of civil status and democracy, and here you have significant gaps. The question of your personal position. It would be very authentic if from this tribune you would withdraw your coffee with Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u76	And the kiss with Stanishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u77	But on the condition that it's already been drunk, there's no way...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u78	And the kiss with Stanishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u79	Of course, and the kiss. ...there's no way, Mr. Mestan, after the coffee exam, things will be back before he does.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u80	Third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u81	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, thank you for the graphics you have shown, thank you, and for the fact that in this debate we still have a certain desire to stick to the facts. They're important. In this debate, in order not to point out facts and not to talk about numbers, my opponents called me a liar and I don't know how. But let's go back to the language of numbers. My question is this. If we accept your claim that the sections in the Republic of Turkey are minus 104, I would ask you to answer: and why have there been 104 sections plus so far? My logic and argument are as follows: in some of the last elections, the votes of the Bulgarians who voted in the Republic of Turkey are 64-65 thousand s, almost as much as it is, let us say, the Bulgarian presence in London - I am talking about the Bulgarian community. How many of them voted?! Perhaps the Bulgarians from London say: yes, we voted 20 thousand, but the others could not line up. Just as many Bulgarians, and many more Bulgarians are already in Spain. By the way, there are many Bulgarians of Turkish origin in Spain. There are many Bulgarians of Turkish origin in Spain. I dare not say what is the number of Bulgarians in the United States of America, because there are hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians there, but you see that they cannot be attracted. My question is: why were the sections so far for the Republic of Turkey 104 more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u82	A hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kirilov, you didn't hear me. The subject of selective law is not the territories, but the citizens. There were more sections because there were more citizens. You cannot, on a territorial principle, deprive the subject of a selective right. Therefore I say to you: this blue line is the fascist dividing line of the Bulgarian nation of majority and of ethnoreligious differences. This is really criminal, and history will condemn you for it. As far as mother tongue is concerned, I have already fought this battle in the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. [[DPS lines.]] So much for that remark. I started it a long time ago, and I will bring it to a successful conclusion. But your nervous reaction shows something else that you have developed that reflex characteristic of totalitarian systems is intolerance to alternative opinion. The word "alternative" scares you, but it is good to hear the voice of the alternative. [[DPS lines.]] The alternative! It's wise to hear the alternative. Otherwise, you risk losing the village of Mudrevo again, for example, on the first round. The alternative is a fact, said the Democrats for responsibility, freedom and tolerance and time is the alternative. Whether you like it or not, this is the reality that scares you, and fear is your problem. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by MPs not members of the AG]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u84	Mr. Slavcho Atanasov, the procedure in the manner of speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u85	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, with great respect to you, I would ask you to make a remark to each and every Member of the National Assembly, who from this tribune uses and replaces other MPs, political forces with accusations of fascist and Nazi ideology. This has been declared a crime by the world, and these ideologies are forbidden. If some MPs have evidence of fascist manifestations of any of us here and to any political power, the place is not in the parliament to announce and to put a spell on such MPs, the place is immediately to submit data to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, Mrs. Tsacheva, I ask you, whenever anyone uses such words as "fassism" and "nazism," to interrupt it and make a remark to it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The word for speech wants Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u87	Madam President, honourable Members, today the Bulgarian Parliament is taking a correctional exam. A correctional exam, as the changes to the Election Code, which were made about three weeks ago, proved not particularly successful, but one mistake, honourable Members, is not corrected by another. What do I mean? These changes are a public secret, were adopted because of the request of a parliamentary group to limit the vote in the Republic of Turkey. Since the Legal Commission has adopted and approved only the proposals submitted by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, i.e. the GERB party, it is more than clear that after a moment the vote will only approve these changes. But, honourable Members, why are you forgetting the most important thing after a moment when you are voting on these changes and proposals of the GERB Party introduced by another parliamentary group? Only a year and a half from 1 January 2018 shall the electronic vote be introduced. When the electronic vote is introduced in the Republic of Turkey, any citizen with Bulgarian citizenship will be able to vote wherever he wants, whenever he wants, as he wants, if from the computer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, whether from the computer of Turkish intelligence even or from the computer of the regional government. Then I ask myself: in a year and a half, are we going to make changes to the Election Code again, because the electronic vote gives 100% opportunity for every person with Bulgarian citizenship abroad to vote, again I say, no matter where, how, in what way? So I'm going to repeat my thesis again: one mistake does not correct itself with another. For this reason, I am making a concrete proposal, which has already been made by colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. From this tribune I propose once again to impose a moratorium by the National Assembly on the amendments to the Election Code, until the Constitutional Court ruled on the veto of the Head of State Mr. Rosen Plevneliev and until the referendum initiated by Slavi Trifonov and approved by this Parliament. It is only after this that I propose that the National Assembly deal with these amendments, but I repeat: what is the point of amendments, after only 18 months in the Republic of Turkey, where we are so scared that many votes will come, and they may indeed come, will come ten times more votes after the introduction of the electronic vote that this Parliament adopted, despite the fact that there is an electronic vote in the European Union only in one country. This is Estonia, where recently, if I am not mistaken, Mrs. Tsacheva was on an official visit with a delegation, and partly in France and Belgium. This innovation, with an apology, will only eat our head in a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Your proposal is in the form of a strong desire. I see. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Philip Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] A line, not a statement. Now it's a line, but he also said a statement and it's recorded for later. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Enchev, I generally agree with what you have said in this tribune. However, you did not pay attention to one thing: September is yet to come, and just as we have driven it, most likely September and September, an opportunity, a final call for new changes to the Election Code. Also take note of this in your speech, because so many changes to the Election Code for such a period of time has not been and certainly will not be. So, September, we assume a change again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? People's representative Korman Ismailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A very shortsighted statement and statement. The electronic vote, if it enables Turkey to vote tens of thousands, will also enable hundreds of thousands outside Turkey to be able to vote. I don't understand what that thinking is.! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u92	Thank you. Third line? Mr. Enchev, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u93	I'm addressing Mr. Korman Ismailov right now. Yes, indeed, the electronic vote will enable all Bulgarian citizens abroad, not just in the Republic of Turkey, to exercise their right to vote, but that is precisely what makes all these amendments meaningless at the moment, as the fundamental foundation of these amendments is the vote in the Republic of Turkey. And I repeat my thesis after only 18 months, after a year and a half, if then there are regular parliamentary elections, we in this room may be facing the same problem. If the vote in Turkey is really massive and vote ten times more, then what are we going to do? Are we going to make new changes to the Election Code?! Is it not better and wiser for the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to impose by this Parliament a moratorium on the electoral changes until the Constitutional Court has delivered and until we see the results of Mr. Slavi Trifonov's referendum. The most important thing I have failed to say in my first speech, honourable Members! Instead of this parliament dealing with the tumor of the Bulgarian electoral system, and this is the way to vote, that you are already buying whole polling stations. Certain political forces are not playing to buy separate votes anymore, but buying entire polling stations. Just three weeks ago, I was in Targovishka District, in Popovo Municipality, where two people told me that their cousins had admitted to them that in separate settlement systems whole committees were bought against 500 leva. to a member of a committee. How will we combat this problem, with this tumor education of the Bulgarian electoral system? This is much more important than the vote in Turkey, because the manipulations of the vote in Bulgaria is the big problem of Bulgarian democracy. Therefore, for the third time, I say: why should we not accept this proposal, a recommendation of the National Assembly, until it is seen what will be the reaction of the Constitutional Court to all these remarks of the Head of State? Although, in my opinion, the Head of State made one big mistake. He does not refer to the Constitutional Court for the mandatory vote, which, at least in my opinion, contradicts the Bulgarian Constitution, where it is said that the vote is a right and not an obligation. I am surprised that so far the opposition BSP and the opposition Movement for Rights and Freedoms (BSP) have not yet submitted such a request to the Constitutional Court to declare the National Assembly's decision on compulsory voting as unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. For information, the time of the MPs not members of parliamentary groups has expired. People's representative Dimitar Delchev has declared a wish to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we from the Reformation Block will support the bill tabled by the Reformation Block. I will support together with some of the colleagues and the bill submitted by the parties Reforming Block.. part of it, GERB, Patriotic Front and BDZ.. part of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u96	It's understandable, Mr. Delchev. [[Replications. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u97	Once I have signed this bill, I see why you understand me, Mr Vice-President, not only because we are from the same parliamentary group, but what I wanted to say is something else. The adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code is very important, extremely important, I would say, essential, because above the previous Election Code, which we adopted just a few weeks ago, remains a heavy shadow. The shadow of the opportunity of Bulgarian citizens abroad to vote in convenient sections remains. The shadow remains that Bulgarian citizens can only vote in diplomatic and consular offices with several exceptions, which were defined in the text at the time. Thus practically no other positive points were seen in the votes a few weeks ago Election Code. People didn't understand that we introduced the electronic vote, or at least that wasn't heard so loud. It has not been heard so loud that we have increased the possibility of machine voting in the sections, which will give more democracy to the vote, will also remove many of its vices, which we are now observing with the paper ballots. It has not been understood that we have introduced an opportunity for better and more expert trainings of members of municipal and regional electoral committees. It was not understood that we increased the composition of the Municipal Election Commission in Sofia and in Varna, so that in my opinion there would be no drama with the "Arena Armeec" which we observed in the previous local elections. That is why today we will support the Bill, which provides for liberalising the way sections are being opened abroad. It envisions that in every country in the European Union or outside the European Union sections can be opened, where assessed, by diplomatic and consular representations on a proposal from the Bulgarian organizations abroad. I ask: who better knows where the concentration of Bulgarian voters abroad is, where are the people who can vote in nearby sections and want to vote in order to offer diplomatic and consular representations, which in turn to propose to the CEC, to open a section there? The answer is clear. The answer is that this is a good system where the sections will be optimized so that they can cover more people than we can observe, as in the elections in 2015. In the referendum, and in 2014, in the parliamentary elections, sections in which they voted under 100 people. The bill, despite the suggestions they are trying to make here from the DPS, is applied equally. It applies regardless of where the Bulgarian citizen is located because it provides for the same procedure for opening sections abroad. To my question in the Legal Commission to the colleagues from the DPS where exactly is discrimination in the Bill, because they claim this thing, on which point the Bulgarian citizens are discriminated against, there was no answer. There will not be, because the new version of the amendment applies equally to all. Yes, there is a limit in the Bill.. There is a limit of 35 sections per country. The fact is, fellow Members, that every freedom has a counter-limit, every right has a counter-limit. Because when one freedom is unlimited, it can kill into something else. It can kill in slobodia and, as we observed in past elections, there can be violations and illegal practices in certain countries because the Bulgarian state cannot provide sufficient potential and sufficient resources to cover all affected sections. Colleagues, at 139 sections in the Republic of Turkey, we cannot expect the Bulgarian state to spend an unlimited number of resources just to try to chase the bad guys. Therefore, the limitation of 35 sections per country is reasonable, especially in the context of the fact that when a well-appreciated opening of sections in key places where there is a concentration of Bulgarian citizens will not be difficult to vote. The Bill, which is supported by us and by colleagues from GERB, the Patriotic Front and part of the BDZ, provides for the reduction of the number of residents needed for direct selection of mayor. Currently they are 400, we propose to drop to 350, with 200 new settlements choosing their mayor. I believe that this is a good change, although it is much less than we hoped. This is a good change because democracy, the direct choice of the people of mayors is extremely important, especially when it comes to local authorities that are closest to the people. Finally, I can't help but comment on BSP's proposal. BSP proposes referendums and elections to be voted separately. Even when a hypothetical referendum coincides with the Sunday in which elections are to be held, their bill says it can't. These should be carried out on two consecutive days. Their bill says: let's spend between 20 and 40 million on both events, but can't be held at the same time. Behind this proposal, colleagues, there is nothing but fear. [[BSP LB.]] That's the fear of people's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u98	Mr. Popov, you will have your say in a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u99	This is the fear of the personal position of people in relation to the things that are happening in Bulgaria, regarding the highest policy in Bulgaria, the higher decisions. And that fear is understandable, yes. People took you out of power in 2013 and people punished you several times in elections, fear is understandable. But just so you know, fear is the worst motivator. Fear is the worst motivator! He's a worse motivator than stupidity. So, fellow Members, we are voting on sensible amendments to the Election Code, which provide for liberalising the way of opening sections, so that more citizens in the next and the next elections can join the electoral process, so that, for God sakes, we have some more democratic elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u100	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are obviously so afraid that you have confused the years. In 2013 your coalition partner Mr. Borisov was shot down, not us. We're talking about people, yeah. With regard to yours for the Arena Armeec. Dear colleague Delchev, the Election Code clearly stated whose responsibility is to produce the elections. She was the executive. Obviously, you have not dealt with this responsibility and now you have transferred to the Central Election Commission all those powers that the CEC itself has said it cannot cope with, because neither has financial resources nor personnel potential, there is no possibility at all to deal with this entire preparation of the upcoming elections, which will lead to chaos, categorically. You are trying to bring back the 350 inhabitants of the settlements. This was in the Fidosova Code, if you don't remember, to remind you of it. You said you've increased 200 settlements to be able to choose, but tell me how much you've practically deprived of this opportunity by introducing 400 or 350 or 300? Because these Bulgarians who live in small towns, these are more than 1000 settlements, will be deprived of the opportunity to express their will and choose their local management. And these are a large percentage of Bulgarian citizens. But I know that you share the policy of Mr. Borisov, who said that he does not make policy for uncle from Koinare. You just said the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u102	Thank you, Mr. Popov. People's representative Chavdar Georgiev is a second line. Then there will be a third, Mr. Delchev, and you follow.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u103	Dear colleagues on the right, not only are you afraid of having a normal referendum and to see how much the questions you are challenging the people to rule on, but are imbued with demagogy! You call black white and you don't care about that. You impose on us an American model and American practices where during the presidential elections they must also make referendums with a question of whether to allow gay marriages or to go to the barracks. That's what you're offering us. Bulgaria has its own parliamentary and electoral tradition. Don't confuse her! And, secondly, don't be proud that you've been able to get the electronic vote back on. It's absolutely unconstitutional. There is no way that when we have established in the Constitution that there is a secret vote, you can claim that electronic voting is an achievement. Change the Constitution and then. Such forms of remote voting are only available in countries where this is allowed because no secret of voting is required there. And in our opinion, the secret to voting is a guarantee of free choice. You're against free choice, and that's why you insist on all these legislative innovations, and I actually told you, you bet on the technology of election manipulation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u104	Third line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u105	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Chairman, Mr. Delchev! In your speech, you asked where the DPS saw restrictions and discrimination. And I want to ask you in a line: if you are a democrat, how do you not manage to see these restrictions and this discrimination? I'll give you two points. One principle, the other particular. The principle argument: a restriction is when the Constitution gives you the right to vote, the Election Code to make this right to be limited to 35 sections. If there are people who want to vote, but the election day has expired and they remain in front of the section and cannot vote because the Election Code restricts them, is it not a restriction on their right to vote and, despite the Constitution that has given the right to vote, not being able to exercise their right? Isn't that a restriction? Isn't that discrimination? That's the principle argument. The specific occasion. Under your bill, which you say you will support. If you find 35 sections of technology that is described in the Election Code, which is still a project where it is said that these sections will be opened on a proposal from the organizations of Bulgarian citizens, if they enter the Republic of Turkey 100 proposals from 100 places, how will diplomatic representation decide in which exactly 35 sections to open these sections? How? If there are 100 places in 60 applications, if there are 100 proposals, how will the diplomatic representation decide exactly which 35 to be in? It's a restriction, it's discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u106	A hole, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Back and forth. Please, Mrs. Ahmedova, make a distinction between limiting the right and limiting the possibility. With this bill no one restricts the right of Bulgarian citizens to vote. Yeah, you're right. You can end the election day and turn out that there are queues of people in front of the polls. Here it is our turn to share the idea that in an election section there may be more than one urn to vote in. It's a matter of organization. So, if there is a good wish, all Bulgarian citizens who wish to vote will be able to vote. And my speech wasn't about restricting law, it was about discrimination. And I asked you: what sign are Bulgarian citizens discriminated against abroad and again I did not hear an answer. Regarding Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. Mr. Georgiev, the vote is also anonymous in Estonia. I do not understand how you can say these things from the National Assembly's stands, provided that there are other countries in the world that apply electronic voting? And in our Law it is written that electronic voting should ensure anonymity. If it does not guarantee it, it will not be an electronic vote. Now your distrust of mothballs that technology can't guarantee is your problem. And the fact that technology can guarantee it has been proven, and if you had come to the discussions, you would have heard it. Mr. Popov, you're absolutely right! Bulgarian citizens, people have overthrown governments and raised governments, have overthrown them both in 2013 and in 2014, and in 2014 1997. I just want to say that BSP is a record player in overthrowing governments. Your governments have been overthrown by Bulgarian citizens as many times as any other party can't imagine. [[BSP LB.]] That's why you're scared!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u108	Where have you been?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u109	That's why you're scared. And us, to tell you the truth, we're not scared at all. We are fighting for a more democratic vote, for a better vote, for the elimination of manipulations. The electoral code, once these amendments are adopted, will be much better than Maya Manolova's Election Code, which you are so cruelly defending here. [[BSP LB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u110	The word for speech is Mr. Philip Popov, after him to prepare Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The position of BSP left Bulgaria is always that the Election Code and the electoral practice should guarantee and ensure the free volition of the voter and an honest election campaign, ensuring maximum awareness in relation to the choice. We have always defended the constitutional principles of suffrage.. general, equal and direct suffrage in secret voting. Bulgaria as a constitutional and legal framework of the electoral process has long adopted all modern pan-European electoral principles and standards. Unfortunately, however, the electoral practice of the recent local government elections, whose organizational and technical training was the responsibility of the current government, has passed as extremely poorly organised in the event of widespread unrest taking into account the election results and failure to comply with the Election Code itself. I will only point out the known fact that every nine out of ten minutes of sectional election committees have been corrected, including with regard to the data for the establishment of election results. In view of the poor electoral practice, BSP left Bulgaria (BSP) proposed more than 60 amendments and additions to the Election Code, which were aimed at simplifying and streamline the electoral process, ensuring the honesty of elections and freedom of volition, ensuring publicity, taking into account the election result. No proposal was accepted. The problems of amendments Election Code are related to the unconstitutionality of fundamental principles and rules, such as the compulsory vote. According to the Bulgarian Constitution, it is a right and cannot be an obligation. With regard to the remote electronic vote, which we also have a decision of the Constitutional Court, in which it is clearly motivated that this way of voting does not guarantee the authenticity, secrecy and voluntaryness of the vote. According to the Bulgarian practice, the vote can only take place in the polling stations and cannot be done and carried out outside them. In the countries where electronic remote voting has been introduced, I also say this about my colleague Delchev, if he wants to take a personal explanation, he has no dual citizenship, and he has an electronic identifier via a chip card in an autonomous network outside the Internet. This is in addition that it cannot be done according to our practice, our reality is outside the sectional election committees, because it will strongly stimulate the bought vote, will discredit the secret of the vote. No one can guarantee that in an uncontrolled environment there will be virtually no pressure on the voter's will for whom and how to vote. Abdicating the executive from the organizational and technical preparation of the elections. Election committees shall have neither budget nor administrative capacity to take full organisational and technical preparation on their own. That's what you practically did. You have included these powers to the Central Election Commission, and it does not have the capacity, I said it in the reply, now I repeat it, and there is no way it can cope with all these powers. There will be chaos in the upcoming elections and reasonable doubts about the election result itself. Creating prerequisites for manipulation of elections. For example, in relation to the establishment of electoral lists so far, everyone could have requested the removal of errors in the lists, and this right is linked to the protection of the public interest from free and fair elections and bad practices, such as the well-known 'election tourism' and the formal registration of dozens of citizens at the same address. It is the same with the so-called dead people who do not exist but are listed. According to the amendments you have imposed to the Election Code, only the deceased will be able to file a complaint for his removal from the list, but not another person. That's what you did with the election lists. We talked about it, we said it, we repeated it, but you never accepted our arguments. To conclude, I would say that significant changes made to the Election Code by the right-wing parties and, above all, by GERB and the Reformation bloc do not guarantee, even limiting the free volition. They will lead to an even worse organisation of elections and will contribute to even worse electoral practices. We remain with the reasonable assumption that, in fact, the ruling majority has adopted amendments to the electoral legislation in order to secure a professional advantage in the next elections. It's about the notorious art. 14.. sections abroad, why did you have to change something that worked? That's what we couldn't find out! The norm of art. 14 was discussed and debated widely for half a year and there was no objection on it. You've changed it without any public discussion. You've overcome the president's veto, which basically means you like your creation and you agree with the norm of art. 14. But against all logic, the veto immediately rained new proposals to change art. 14. The whole electoral process, the whole process of proposals were actually devoid of logic. You know how the proposals themselves were done at first, second, at third reading at some time, outside of our Rules. Therefore, these proposals that you are making even now are nothing more essential than what already existed. But you decided to change it anyway because it was under the auspices of Mrs. Maya Manolova. You spit on this bad code of Maya Manolova and decided to do something better. Except it didn't work out. It didn't work out because we all saw that you were practically fixing for the Nth time what you did. This is proof that you failed and failed as good lawmakers, as good lawmakers, to fulfill what the Constitution said to you, a good legislation. You couldn't do it, and you keep doing it the same way. I have despised here, perhaps incontrovertible, that even in September you will probably again propose any amendments to the Election Code. It has become a symbol of your government change in the Election Code! As if there are no other problems in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u112	Any lines to Mr. Popov? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u113	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Popov, since I did not hear in your speech why you propose elections and referendums to take place on two consecutive days, I use the reply as a question because the reasons you have presented do not seem very appropriate. At ABB, we've always had a principled position. We believe that elections and referendums do not necessarily need to be on the same day, but do not necessarily need to be divided. If there are elections in the year, let the referendums and elections be together. But if there isn't, they should be separate as appropriate. Mr. Georgiev's motives, who said earlier that this would show the weight of the referendum, also do not sound convincing because they are related to a specific referendum that is now being proposed to us. We in legislation must look at referendums in principle. You must clearly realise that this is really how referendums are killed, because there is no way to stimulate turnout in two consecutive days. And it also damages the voter turnout of the elections themselves. And if people want to exercise their vote on the referendum, they will have no incentive to go to the vote the day before. Against the backdrop of what we all say we want higher representativeness, higher turnout, I see a serious contradiction and I would especially like to hear more arguments on this issue. As far as electronic voting is concerned, apart from the fact that we have provided for it to be introduced only when there is a secret of vote, we must clearly realise that the problem is not in the way and the type of vote, but in the people themselves. If they are willing to sell their votes and if there are people who would tempt them and want to buy their voice, it will be both ways. Let us not deny the future and not confuse the problems of technology with the problems of elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u114	Second line? Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u115	Dear Mr. Popov, I can't leave without a comment your e-voting banter because I take it as a fling. Being against e-voting in principle is understandable, but when you express those in the stands of the National Assembly who do not rest on the text that was adopted, this needs correction. Mr. Popov, the electronic vote will enter into force, will only be used once there is an electronic identifier in Bulgaria. This is a text that is present in the Law and you can read it before you claim that in other countries there is an electronic identifier and in Bulgaria there will be no vote. Thus, the texts for electronic voting are recorded to exclude any manipulations related to the theft of a foreign identity, which is not a fact at the moment as regards the vote by paper ballots. And precisely because you did not want us to vote together to accept active registration and clear lists of dead souls, there will continue to be people from Australia who have not returned to the country for 12 years, but vote on the last four choices. And you're saying this would happen with the electronic vote?! On the contrary, everyone will have an electronic ID card and only then will they be able to vote. With regard to the purchase of votes and the controlled vote, I did not understand you, as it turns out that our wonderful election process, which has so far taken place, will suddenly be clouded by the electronic vote, which will lead to a bought vote. If you tell me you're not buying a vote now, you're lying to yourself. Please don't stand against the will of two million people. Keep in mind that when you speak against the electronic vote that can be taken and has been proven by other countries, you are speaking against the people who gave their opinion in the referendum and said:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u116	Third line, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u117	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Filipov! [[(BSP lines: "Popov!") Shirt!]] Popov, Philip Popov. I'll buy you a suit. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u118	Colleagues, I ask that the number be discussed in the towers, not in the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u119	During the last term of your government, you made an election code for a year and a half, and it turned out to be your personal vendetta, because with this Election Code, we beat you. Every time you make an election code, we beat you. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] When we opened the Election Code for Repair, we actually only had to include the part about the electronic vote, which was the result of the referendum. There were absolutely no other signals. At some point, you know, when the Election Code opens up, it starts raining proposals and everyone tries to exercise in some way. I'll just tell you that according to your nice Election Code, Mrs. Manolova had villages when you lowered the settlements to 100 people, in Kardzhali District, in which two people voted, one of which is the mayor. Here's your nice Election Code. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u120	A hole, Mr. Popov. [[National Representative Philip Popov returns to his place for the map.]] Come, we'll time you not to waste minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u121	We changed the suit and I left it in the other one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u122	A more caring attitude to the voting card. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u123	I left it in your personal. It wasn't in yours. [[Happy tidings.]] In line with the lines. Regarding the first line. I will say in a nutshell: Two watermelons under one armpit cannot be worn..................................... two watermelons under one armpit can't be This is where the sovereign's statement is confused. Both times we have a sovereign's volition one time is for organ selection and the other for something else. If we are going to stimulate the referendum in elections, it means that the referendum itself is not socially significant enough. There is no need to stimulate the referendum during elections. Moreover, you saw in the last, in the local elections what happened in practice with this referendum. He was pushed out of the local election campaign. The people did not have this awareness which should have been in a national referendum. That's why it was our proposal. Mr. Delchev, these changes will enter into force in 2018 under the Election Code. Until then, we'll spend some money on pilot projects to introduce the electronic remote voting. I've said it in an expensive electronic game. You have virtually limited the possibility of clearing the electoral lists, and I have told you why you did it. Why did you do it? It is obvious: for the sole purpose of manipulating election results. Regarding the third line, you actually said that the Election Code was good. You've won, you've been in opposition, so the Election Code is good. If he's a bad guy and he's given you the opportunity to manipulate him, does that mean you've done one to win the election? Here you have two options either the Election Code was good or it was bad, but it has given you the opportunity to manipulate and you have done them. Another word in relation to the electronic remote voting is no one who claims that there is no vote currently being bought in Bulgaria. On the contrary, this is a huge, scary problem for Bulgaria, it is a crime. But why do we have to open the doors for an even greater opportunity to manipulate the outcome for an even bigger, grander crime? I repeat, I do not know which way, there are no guarantees of the secret and authenticity of the vote when the choice is not made in a controlled environment, outside the sectary election committee. And I'm not talking about data transfer here. I'm talking here that hypothetically in a small settlement or in a municipality where there are local Velimos, of which a number of people are dependent for economic or other reasons. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I am finishing, Madam President, what will ensure that no pressure on this man's free will is put on who and how to vote? No matter how many times you vote, two, three, five, ten if you want to do it, you can't guarantee it, and that opens the door for manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u124	Mr. Popov, the technology will guarantee. Colleagues, there are four other MPs scheduled to speak. Since there are no other interested parties, I suggest that we not interrupt for a break and continue with the debate in the Chamber. The word for speech is Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we are essentially not considering seven bills, but four and a half, because practically three of them overlap, apart from that of the DPS, which only partly overlaps others. Perhaps we should start with the one that is at least rumored to pass by the Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. I will first start with your arguments, with the argument of the Venice Commission, which has always said that never before elections, at least six months before them, it is not good to make any changes to the electoral rules. It is from this point of view that it is somehow not normal three months before any elections, I repeat, to make changes to the electoral rules in order to be as transparent as possible. If there was a referendum that was supposed to be overexposed in legislation, yes, it was overexposed. His exposure could have come at the beginning of the year, not in the middle of it. At the moment, given that less than three weeks ago the last changes were adopted, making new changes means that these changes that have been made or have not been well discussed, or have not been well thought out, which raises the question to what extent we are doing our work here. This also comes down to the question of how we increase voter turnout. The big problem of our democracy is that voter turnout is in the middle of the number of voting rights. We wonder every time in this room how we can increase the trust of the people in us. That way we won't increase it! It increases when there is a stable policy, a consistent policy, and you can follow those you have set out to turn them into practice. When you say one thing, the next day, another, and you turn around every week, you can't do it. Impression made in the Bill of GERB "35". There was a statement here even what exactly 35 means as a number of sections. I'm also looking at it on the basis of other bills, I'm looking at limiting those sections that exist in another way. There must be equality for all Bulgarian citizens regardless of where they are. In Turkey there was an excessive amount, such as a number of sections, which does not regulate precisely this equality, which should be obtained because in other countries, whether it be members of the European Union or anywhere in the world, there were significantly fewer sections and the vote of Bulgarians abroad was much more hindered. I don't even remember with the old Code colleagues who are now walking and fighting in their chests how limited voting is abroad, walking and saying how bad voting is abroad, how limited it is, how, for example, in Italy you have to travel 800 km in both directions in order to be able to vote. We will now go through the various bills of other colleagues, and I will accordingly say why we will not support any of them. First of all, I said it, the main thing is that it's not normal after two and a half weeks to make changes again. Regarding colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, who have proposed changes first, their text, in particular for holding a referendum and choice on the same day, is so written that it is a big confusion. We saw in the last local elections the holding of elections and a referendum on the same day. Instead of raising the question here, is it appropriate for the Central Election Commission to oblige people to vote in a referendum, or is it right and volition of everyone? If you refuse to vote in a referendum, we must remember that in the local elections people were obliged, they were mandatory and ballots were pushed. We're not debating this, and maybe this should be the focus. It's not the focus of what's happening in the sections either. Here everyone is trying to pass his idea so that after a while he can come out and explain how well he has defended his idea and how much more popular it is and how much better it will sound to his voters. After all, based on this Election Code, all representative democracy in the country is chosen, and our goal is not so much to push our proposals, at least my logic is that, but to be able to make it as good as possible and be at the service of the voters. Since 2018, there has been an experimental electronic vote against which there are extremely many objections. The questions were raised about what is happening in the sections and we think that engine voting is a much better option. For example, I can give some recent elections in Austria, where a remote vote by post office was inclined at the last moment, although preliminary results pointed to another, simply reverse the results. So these changes that we are making right now, I wouldn't really be surprised by supporting some of the colleagues who said that by the end of the year to see new changes. But that's not how it works! When you signed all these bills, these proposals, look at, look at the top of the project, where it is described how many times the bill has been changed over the years, how many proposals have been made. And you should be impressed that there are countries that make their choices by law that have not been touched for years, and we are constantly touching it in order to benefit someone. This was the situation before 2009, when BSP tried to make a directed code which finally gave power to GERB. BSP gave it to GERB with more than 28 mandates, 28 majority mandates, if I am not mistaken. The problem that exists, and what some colleagues are trying to settle in the Transitional and Final Regulations of their bills, namely the reduction for the election of mayor of small towns, here Ms. Karayancheva was right, there is such a village in Kardzhaliysko with two people and elected mayor, but this is for the simple reason that those who work in Grao, and those who have political responsibility to govern the state, do not have the political will to change it. If you look at Kardzhali, Kardzhali by election lists is 298 thousand people, as an area. Come on, if you want everyone to gather and go to Kardzhali to see if there are 298 thousand people with voting rights who really need to be as close to Veliko Tarnovo as possible. In Veliko Tarnovo there are 307 thousand. In Kardzhali are elected five mandates, in Veliko Tarnovo eight mandates are elected, but this is a problem of the system and this is a problem of GRAO and this problem has not been solved for years. Understand that in all the years with elections, with different electoral codes, they have become so much in favor of those who manage that they instead of solving problems, create new or simply stick even more, said to slang, old ones, existing ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines to Mr. Alexandrov's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. For the next statement is recorded Mr. Kazak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, to discuss once again the amendments to the Election Code, after the premature child who was voted here just recently under the pressure of the Patriotic Front, which, of course, was returned by the President and, in order to please the stubbornness of the patriots, was redeployed. [[(Fullings from the FD: (Eee!)]] It was reworded with the clear awareness that it was wrong, that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Bulgarian citizens are not dignified and that the application will be corrected afterwards. It says: "You vote stubbornly! Now, contrary to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which has long recommended not six months, but a year before elections not to make serious changes in electoral legislation, we have once again undertaken to change them, again to please the narrow party interests and wills of this or that small coalition partner, who simply wants to write down a red dot in his election platform as a fulfilled commitment, namely: to limit the rights of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey to vote, regardless of the fact that they are equal Bulgarian citizens, despite the fact that all these years their voting in no way has harmed the democratic processes in Bulgaria, but on the contrary, has stimulated them, despite the fact that it was a previous attempt to deprive tens of thousands of them of their effective exercise of their vote through the annulment of their votes by the Constitutional Court of Human Rights and Bulgaria has been condemned for this, despite the fact that it has caused them, despite the fact that it was a previous attempt to deprive tens of their rights. Once again the mantras waved at some potential threat, you see, someone else would decide the fates of Bulgaria. Once again, arguments relating to national security are put forward. My God, 26 years of what have these countrymen, who have been in very good faith in all kinds of elections, jeopardized national security? Nothing! They are full Bulgarian citizens and even many MPs from other political forces, especially GERB, were trying to create structures in the Republic of Turkey precisely to attract them to vote for them. And now suddenly it turns out that they are a threat to national security, when we are trying, on the one hand, to attract them to vote for us, we are now trying to limit their rights. Honourable Members, this Bill is quite wrongly entitled "Tsvetan Tsvetanov's draft and a group of MPs." No, it's a bill on the Patriotic Front. This limitation of 35 sections is precisely, solely and solely directed at our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey and against anyone else. After our compatriots in other countries raised their voice and threatened that they would no longer vote for the parties of the ruling majority after it became clear that the Patriot Front was not particularly interested in our compatriots abroad, outside of those in the country, now suddenly found this way by finding the number On the one hand, to allow all compatriots in other countries to vote, but to limit the possibility of our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey. Dear colleagues, once again through such a discriminatory text you prove that the government is hostages of xenophobia, nationalism and populism. Through such texts, you are moving away from European standards, getting closer to each other, Asian or South American mechanisms of electoral legislation that have nothing to do with democratic traditions. Me and we of the DPS Parliamentary Group will certainly not support such texts. We hope that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria will again exercise his right to veto if this text passes in this form. If he really wants to be president of all Bulgarian citizens, if he wants to be consistent in his positions, he must exercise veto on this Law and eventually the Constitutional Court will repeal it. There were arguments here, almost no difference between restrictions and prohibitions, between restriction of rights and restriction of opportunities. When you limit someone's ability to exercise their constitutional right, you de facto deprive them of that constitutional right. So, fellow Members, do not hide behind the fig leaf of limiting practical possibilities. You restrict the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens and this will not go unnoticed either by the Constitutional Court or by the other institutions above it at European level, which would possibly deal with such a text if it entered into force. Most of all, Bulgarian citizens will be convinced that such governance has nothing to do with Bulgaria's European orientation and will deny you in some subsequent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone wishing to replicate Mr. Kazak's statement. The next statement is written and stated on behalf of Mr. Radan Kanev. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, you have the floor for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to say that the MPs from the "Democrats for Strong Bulgaria" and the civil quota of the Reformation bloc will support only the drafts of Radan Kanev and a group of MPs and the independent MP Georgi Kadiev. We will only support these bills because we do not accept the thesis that the general Bill of the majority has liberalisation of the regime. The fact that a never-applying gaffe with the newly-changed Election Code does not mean that the regime is being liberalized. No, the regime is tightening and becoming difficult, perhaps less than under the Law, which will turn out to have only acted for a few days. Why do we not accept these options of tightening legislation? Because in our opinion, we are talking about an actual national issue that cannot be solved in the way of bargaining and of reaching a compromise that mixes water and oil. Either the Bulgarian Parliament will adopt a restrictive policy towards the vote of Bulgarians abroad, or will adopt a policy to promote the vote of Bulgarians abroad. It is not possible to conduct both policies at the same time. We are convinced that the Bulgarian Parliament should take a position and conduct a policy on promotion......... to strongly encourage the vote of the Bulgarians abroad......................... We believe that the Bulgarian national community within the borders of the country and Bulgarians living abroad should be seen as a single national community, that this is a key national interest, that this is a major issue for the future of the Bulgarian nation. The Bulgarian nation currently lives in different places. Its preservation as a community is extremely important and the implementation of the current Law, with its liberal regime, has greatly contributed to the creation of this community. The efforts of the people to create sections created nuclei of the Bulgarian diaspora, which until now it did not. For decades we have complained that, unlike Greeks, Italians, Irish, Albanians, other nations with huge diasporas, we do not have people who gather, people who work together, people who represent the Bulgarian national interest where they live. Here, we already have them, and we're trying to sew up a sound slap right now. With these objectives, we support the preservation of the current liberal regime and especially the preservation of the so-called "automatic section', i.e. where the Bulgarian community has done its work to create a new section and to attract enough people to vote in it, more than 100 people in a section, should not have to walk the entire procedure again. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u130	Mr. Kanev, would you like a time extension? The time of the group is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u131	I want a time extension, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u132	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u133	So we can't take away what's already been done from them right now. This is really an insult to this very important part of the Bulgarian nation. Secondly, we want an extension of the rights of Bulgarian citizens abroad through real representation in 32 Multi-Multimate Election Region. To solve the problem where the MPs for this area come from, we propose the introduction of the so-called "dynamic mandate" - that is, the number of MPs from one region to depend on the number of votes in it, not on the fake lists of the Bulgarian Esgraun. This is also a powerful tool for increasing activity, because if there is more voting in one area, it will have more MPs. A much more powerful instrument than a false mandatory vote, which, unfortunately, is already in force. Finally, as regards the 35 sections rule, which is sold simultaneously as maintaining the liberal regime, but limiting the vote in the Republic of Turkey. Honourable Members, we do not want as many people as they voted in 2013 and 2014 abroad to vote. We want much more Bulgarian citizens to vote. We don't want to limit the current situation. There is no answer to the question: what about applications for the 36th section? There is also no answer to a very important question: how do we introduce both restrictions for the Republic of Turkey and electronic voting? I'll tell you how. This clearly means that the majority will not apply the electronic vote. If he is interested in the restrictions, then the electronic vote, if not today on BSP's proposal, then another day on someone else or again on BSP's proposal, will again have an unexpected majority in the Chamber and it will turn out that the electronic vote is postponed, postponed and postponed again, as most of the good things in Bulgarian politics are postponed. Finally, for the famous argument for Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey who voted under the command of Mr Erdogan. No one contests the fact that violations are taking place in the Republic of Turkey. I sense some sense in the speeches, that is, that no one disputes the fact that this is a problem of the Bulgarian parties and the Bulgarian state. But enough of Mr. Erdogan! Bulgarian citizens living in the Republic of Turkey, who are mostly banished from a totalitarian regime by Bulgaria in the Republic of Turkey, do not vote for Mr Erdogan in the Turkish elections. It is obvious that there is no way Mr Erdogan will make them vote in a certain way in the Bulgarian elections, provided that there is no resource to make them vote in a certain way in the Turkish elections. I believe that they, because of their own family destiny, have a very clear immunity against the moving totalitarianism that is required in our southern neighbour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u134	Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kanev, I have listened to you carefully and I am impressed by the fact that you advocate so thoroughly the thesis of the electronic vote, which is generally correct, you have advocated the thesis and the possibility of voting in a foreign country of Bulgarian citizens, but as President of the City Right Party, I expected to hear your attitude and the vote in smaller settlements. Are you from "Democrats for Strong Bulgaria" ignoring the selection of mayors of settlements and thus not supporting the possibility for all Bulgarian citizens to choose their mayor?! This is extremely important to us. Please note that the vote of all Bulgarian citizens and mayors of mayors is a fundamental democratic right of choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u136	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kanev, as always I am struck by your speech. I'm also impressed by your psychic abilities. You clearly and categorically stated from this platform that you know how Bulgarian citizens vote in the Republic of Turkey. From here immediately arises the question and possibly the answer to it that you know or will eventually know how the other Bulgarian citizens will vote in other countries, outside the territory of Europe, for example, other countries outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is, you yourself told us that you know and can determine the choice of Bulgarians abroad. This is interpreted by your words, which is striking to me. But there is something else, dear Mr. Kanev. You have talked a lot about an election area, but when you talked about this election area, you should remember an interesting text in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which states that the people representative represents the whole people, that is, he represents the Bulgarians abroad, who are also part of our Bulgarian people. Only to think somewhere in the budget of the Bulgarian MP to go five or six times to the US to meet the Bulgarian diaspora? Have you foreseen a eased regime for issuing visas to a Bulgarian national representative? We are talking about this when the Bulgarian citizen is already elected as MPs. And explain to me how the candidate MP will travel 260 countries, for example, to conduct his election campaign abroad, in this election area, called by you, the election district of the European Union?! How's that gonna happen? Or does it happen in the dreams of some people who think about certain things but can't explain them in dreams?! There is still much to change in the Bulgarian legislation, not to mention in the Bulgarian Constitution!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u139	Dear Mr. Haytov, our proposals are now entirely related to the right and the possibility of voting the Bulgarians who live abroad. This is a package of amendments to the Law relating only to this topic. When the vote was taken on limiting the right of people living in settlements between 100 and 400 inhabitants to choose their mayor, we voted against. In the next vote on the next legislative package, at second reading, we will maintain this position. We see no reason to restrict the right to vote, the choice of its own mayor from people in small towns. We're on the same page. That's not our offer. There are other very important issues, such as raising the right to the local elections. While our position has always been a zero preference for local and national elections, it is quite obvious that there is no majority for such a decision in the forty-third parliament. It would be an empty populism to make such a proposal, for which to vote only a handful of people. The moods are for removing the preference. Thank God, there are plenty of public preferences to protect her. Mr. Bayraktarov, by abstracting my psychic abilities, unfortunately I don't have them, I can't tell you who will vote where. But I can tell you with certainty, not based on clairvoyance, but on facts that we can analyse that the more sections there are, the more votes. The sharp increase in sections in Western Europe and America has sharply increased the votes in Western Europe and America. Conversely, Turkey has a very obvious saturation and there the increase in sections did not lead to an increase in votes between the 2013 elections and the 2014 elections. So I am not dealing with clairvoyance, but only with facts. A little more for the Thirty-Second District. It is important that when a nation has a huge diaspora and wants to keep in contact with it, this community should be adequately secured with real political representation. Yes, each of us represents the entire people, but each of us has an election area and takes greater care of it. With regard to the methods of communication. We live in a world that allows for the most diverse methods of communication. Believe me, both my and many other colleagues here are far from pointing out to myself the communication with Bulgarians living abroad is permanent. Regarding the journey here, I will speak for myself. I can say that I have traveled a lot for meetings with Bulgarians abroad. Not a penny has been paid by the National Assembly budget. In the period when our party did not have a state subsidy, I paid with my own money to do this political work. So ways there are, the question is whether there is political will.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is normal when MPs belonging to different political groups speak to protect their bill. It is not normal for MPs belonging to system parties to speak in such a way that, apart from discrimination and not defending the rights of Bulgarian citizens abroad, they take those rights away! I say this in connection with the amendments and additions to the Election Code tabled by the ruling majority. The negotiators asked where are the discriminatory elements? I'll try to help them see where they are. How is it possible in countries of the European Union to allow Bulgarian citizens to self-organise, submit applications and then the Central Election Commission to open N polling stations? In countries outside the European Union, why should diplomatic and consular representations determine the location of the polling stations and enable Bulgarian citizens' organisations to also offer the possibility where to open these polling stations? Dear colleagues, this is a discriminatory law! That's fucked up legislation! It's like a beggar's pants! It's a patch on a patch! In this way, the Code of Elections is distinguished. It's discrimination on residence. He who does not know in Bulgaria has a Law on Protection against Discrimination, and can read it very carefully and will understand where this discriminatory moment lies. There was once a Prime Minister who went and apologized to more than 300,000 forced out of the Republic of Bulgaria Bulgarian citizens. Recently, in a broadcast we also heard the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria say that if he had to choose between whether the rights of the citizens should be discriminated against, he would choose precisely the rights of the citizens. I ask: who protects the rights of these citizens? Where's the country? For one, the Central Election Commission will decide, for the other, the diplomatic and consular representations. Dear colleagues, let me remind you: there are also honorary consuls who do not even know Bulgarian language. When we point out that we must restrict the right of Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey to vote informedly, the main reason is pointed out: you see, there was a Turkish language. Have you bothered to inform yourself how to speak at polling stations in the Republic of Spain, how to speak in London, in America? There is spoken in a language other than the Bulgarian language. This speaks of an ageing Bulgarian emigration whose children do not speak Bulgarian. This is the problem of the Bulgarian state, it is not of the Election Code, it is not of the committees, it is not of those people who political formations, the state sends to different countries. In this way, even the so-called Patriots, the Psevdopatriots, and the Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Macedonia, restrict the opportunity of their own friends to have an informed choice. I would say that perhaps the real patriots are in Macedonia and not in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, I will repeat what I said about a month ago: do not transgress, do not trample on the Constitution! Non-constitutional! Bear in mind that it is precisely from the Republic of Turkey, however you try to limit the rights of informed choice of our brothers and sisters, Bulgarian citizens, their vote will be even more powerful. If we compare the two electoral codes, the previous and current ones, it is clear and visible with which Election Code from now on there were the most Bulgarian citizens who voted outside the country with a vote. In the end, I'm gonna say that this legislation sucks! In this way, this Election Code is distinguished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u142	Any lines to Mr. Ibryamov? The word for speech is Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'll be very brief. I would like to express my opinion that I am happy that so many human rights defenders of Bulgarians abroad have appeared recently, which have been missing for 26 years. I don't know where they were.! Where were these people when before and now the rights of the Bulgarians in Macedonia continue to be violated in the Western outskirts? That the cultural autonomy of the Bulgarians in Moldova is wanted to be taken away, that the Bulgarians in Bessarabia in Ukraine are crushed by the military conflict there where were you? Why didn't you protect them?! Suddenly, even one of the importers of a bill voted abstention for the bill, which was signed by almost all parliamentary groups, for the changes in the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. And he's concerned, even though he's abstentioned, notice! The most interesting thing is that the DPS never under any circumstances supports either committees or in the Chamber anything related to the rights of Bulgarians abroad and the facilitation of their lives. It's a fact! Never! Here you talk about how you defend the rights of the Bulgarians, you talk about Macedonia. Shame and a lie! It's you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u144	First line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u145	Dear Mr. Angelov! The care for Bulgarians abroad has been seen by your concern in this Election Code, to which you are importers and main supporters. You restrict the rights of Bulgarians abroad. You are the people who do not care for Bulgarians abroad. [[Relations from the Patriotic Front.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u146	Mr. Hamid, second line. You're giving up. A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a complete lie that Bulgarians abroad are restricted to Bulgarian citizens across their borders. Anyone who wants can make a reference and will understand that Bulgarians abroad have at least three rights more when voting than Bulgarian citizens living in Bulgaria. That's easy to do. First, Bulgarians abroad have the right to form sections and Bulgarian citizens have no right to organize sections in Bulgaria. Other Bulgarians in Bulgaria should vote on a permanent or current address, while Bulgarians abroad do not have such a requirement. Here, I told you two things with which they are facilitated precisely so that more Bulgarians abroad can vote. What I said that DPS never supports anything related to Bulgarian communities abroad is true. Anyone can consult the committees and in the Chamber when the DPS supported the Bulgarians in Macedonia, the Western outskirts or other countries? Never!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u148	Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we have been listening for almost two hours to the speeches of the honourable Members of the National Assembly who have committed to this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u150	Mr. Atalay, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u151	Turns out nothing new under the sun. Once again, we are doing an Election Code against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we are doing an Election Code in which we are imposing a restriction on all Bulgarian citizens abroad, whether they are in Macedonia, whether they are in America or in London, but we are concentrating mostly on the Bulgarian citizens who are in the Republic of Turkey. Once again, I say to you: honourable Members, this restriction, this ban that you are making for Bulgarian citizens expelled from their birthplaces is least inappropriate. The protection by the DSB with tears in the eyes for these Bulgarian citizens in Turkey, the limitation of their rights is also unfair, unfair to the extent that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says that we must create the most wonderful, easiest conditions for every Bulgarian citizen to exercise his right to vote, with this Code and today we have not been able to achieve this desire, this expectation of our voters. It's about the alternative. Do we have an alternative to creating those conditions so that citizens can vote? Dear colleagues, not every alternative has a positive impact. For example, I do not accept the alternative vote which introduced a former appointed President of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is with such an alternative vote that he has imposed, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has come to this position, and you want to confirm the same alternative vote, or with this Code you are introducing again the Phoenician signs as the basis for voting in the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u152	Thank you. There are no other MPs who have expressed their desire to participate in the debate. We're closing the debate, we're about to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-68, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. They voted 167 MPs: 111, against 35, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. For the first negative vote, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u153	Madam President, honourable Members, I voted against this vote because the Bulgarian Parliament has taken another step towards the deprivation and withdrawal of fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens. With this vote, fellow Members, you violated the Constitution again. It will not only help Bulgaria to exit the post-Monitoring mechanism of the Council of Europe, this vote is a step towards full monitoring by the Council of Europe in terms of human rights. You can be sure that the DPS will ask the Council of Europe for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u154	Second negative vote, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u155	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I voted against this election code because this Election Code achieved the worst of what we could achieve in Bulgaria against Bulgarians abroad, set Bulgarians in Bulgaria against Turks living abroad and living in Bulgaria, set people who want to vote and have the right to vote anywhere in the world in an easy and convenient way, against people who want to manipulate their vote and take advantage of it. There is no doubt that with these decisions today, we have actually upset the Bulgarians with the whole process of the Election Code, which we once accepted with false reports, with mandatory voting of people like sheep, with these restrictions of those abroad who left Bulgaria, not because they wanted to, but because we have not created the conditions for them and now in every way we try to emeral them. Therefore, honourable Members, I am absolutely convinced that this Election Code will have a new amendment, there will be a new amendment, there will be other people, another government, another parliament, who will do something better than the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u156	Mr. Kardzhaliev, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u157	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against it because this bill is actually another outburst against democratic Bulgaria and the order and direction we are seeking to follow. Of course, this is where I include the system parties. Dear ladies and gentlemen of GERB, I did not support your Law because it is your strongest sin to democracy and to the principles of European development of the Republic of Bulgaria. This Law is to the detriment of the path we began to walk 26 years ago. Unfortunately, this is the strongest sin, as I said at the beginning, in the process of twisting hands from a non-systemic political formation. Through this Law it has come to this point that the bending of arms can also reach the breaking of these hands. Given the fact that the system parties do not like handicapped partners, keep this in mind in further communication with the other system parties, I also include the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. From now on, I do not believe Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to say lines of the type: "Thank you to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for preserving our government." This will hardly happen when this Law is passed. And otherwise, the DPS is a party, and I'm sure you've given us a cause here. Don't forget that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u158	Thank you. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-69, submitted by Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. We vote. They voted 170 MPs: 30, against 57, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-70, tabled by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 172 MPs: 24, against 112, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-73, submitted by Georgi Kadiev. We vote. Vote 164 MPs: 8 against 105, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 654-01-75, submitted by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. Vote 168 MPs: 22, against 110, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. The next Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code is No 654-01-76, submitted by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. We vote. Vote 166 MPs: for 2, against 48, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. The next Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code is No 654-01-77, submitted by the MPs Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. We vote. They voted 165 MPs: 24, against 94, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Karakachanov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we're continuing our second reading. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted strongly against it, because I am tired of a political party washing its hands with the Patriotic Front, accusing us of all kinds of sins. But the Patriot Front wasn't a system party, he twisted his arms. I don't remember anyone twisting their arms. Hands bend the DPS for 26 years of Bulgarian society, threatening it with ethnic peace. It's a curve of arms. [[DPS lines.]] I voted confidently against. Why? Because in the form of protecting citizens' rights, this is one step towards disintegration of the Republic of Bulgaria. To remove the principle of sedentary means to allow the hordes who command Erdogan to come to Bulgaria and vote as they want and when they want. To introduce a mother tongue means to violate the Constitution and give the same satrap, who tried to get us into another problem a few days ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u160	Please, in terms of political and state figures, let's measure our words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u161	...to interfere in the internal affairs of Bulgaria and to claim autonomies, federalizations and so on. I would like to thank all the other colleagues who voted against it, because in this way we protected Bulgaria's national interest against a few additions that we have observed for 26 years and which are aimed at breaking down the state, and the same people who have managed us for 25 years are now talking to me and with these proposals they wanted to do so, how the Bulgarians left. Dear colleagues, the Bulgarians left because of you because of all this robbery, which happened and because of all this irresponsible and anti-national behavior, which has been a practice so far. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the PF. DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u162	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I would especially like to draw your attention to you. You should have interrupted and made a sharp remark about the previous one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u164	Didn't you hear from the front row when I made a remark?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u165	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u166	Meet the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u167	You made a remark about an insult which was addressed to the President of a neighbouring country.. an ally of Bulgaria in NATO, but you missed one another even more serious insult, which the speaker addressed to tens, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who live in the Republic of Turkey not of his own free will. He called them "Jordy." The Ords would come under command and vote if the principle of seclusion had been removed. Can such an attitude be called the......................... Bulgarian citizens, free and worthy, exercising their constitutional right to vote?! This shows attitude, shows up upbringing, this shows everything else that is not European and which is not civilised. That's why you had to cut him off and make a remark. Thank you. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u168	Dear Mr. Kazak, I share your opinion that Bulgarian citizens cannot, no matter where they live and have settled their lives within or outside our country, be called in a way that is uncivilized and is beyond the principles of our democratic development. Colleagues, I suggest that we take 15 minutes to rest, because then we have a second vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters. Fifteen minutes! Please, then let's not start with a name check. [[Noise and lines.]] [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u169	The Quaestors, please invite your colleagues to the Chamber. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE DEPRECTION LAW. So far, we have adopted the first 15 paragraphs and are about to be reported to § 16. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u170	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 words The site manager shall be replaced by the Operations Manager. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "intervention' shall be replaced by "the disaster area'. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "intervention' shall be replaced by "the disaster area'. 4. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." order the immediate execution or suspension of construction works, terrain reconstructions or demolition of construction works or parts thereof in order to prevent or reduce the negative effects of the disaster; 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "personal" or "material" shall be deleted after the word "help" shall be added in accordance with their capabilities. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "the person in charge of the site' shall be replaced by "the person in charge of the operations'. 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "intervention' shall be replaced by the "damaged area'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, p. 4 the words "or material assistance' shall be deleted and the words "in-the-spot' shall be replaced by "in-house assistance'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23: § 23. In Chapter 4, Section II is created art. 38a: Art. 38a. Each legal person shall be liable: 1. bear the restrictions in relation to a declared disaster arising from the measures implemented by the competent services in the conduct of the protection activities; 2. to cooperate in accordance with its capabilities at the request of the mayor of the municipality or of the Head of Operations; 3. to allow, where necessary, rescue and emergency recovery work to be carried out, the entry of rescue teams and equipment, the carrying out of field renovations, the construction of facilities for protection against risk factors, the clearing of land property and the removal of buildings or their parts, facilities and plantations where it is the owner, user or manager of the real estate; 4. allow the deployment of facilities free of charge of early warning and disclosure systems in the real estate property it owns and to provide access to them for their operation; 5. not prevent the access of authorised officials to collective remedies for control, prevention and repair; 6. to take measures to protect his property from damage and to limit the damage caused by the disaster, as well as to comply with the requirements of the competent authorities for the removal of sources of danger for damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u171	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs by importer 16, generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same in accordance with the text referred to in the report which becomes § 17 in the same report, § 17 by importer, which is generally supported by the Commission, is edited by the Commission and becomes § 18 in its report, § 18, 19, 20 and 21, which are fully supported by the Commission and, respectively, § 19, 20, 21 and 22, and § 22, which is generally supported by the Commission, which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 23 in its report. Please vote. Vote 73 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u172	Mr. Chairman, before I proceed, to those admitted to the Chamber yesterday, I would like to make another proposal to allow Katya Hadjieva from the Department of Legal and Regulatory Activity (HR) to the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u173	Please vote on the proposal for admission. Vote 67 MPs: 62, against 1, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u174	Please request a re-vote. [[(Replys:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u175	There's a quorum, what name check? Please call off the vote. Give me the roll call list! I'm starting a roll call: Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Additionally enrolled: Ianko Iankov, Julian Angelov, Chavdar Peychev, Tsetska Tsacheva, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Neno Vlaikov, Crisimir Karakachanov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Bayraktarov, Cetin Kazak, Krasimir Lazarov, Stanislav Stanilov and Hristo Gadzhev. We have a quorum, proceed with § 23. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u176	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: In municipalities with a population of up to 20,000 people, voluntary formations are required in accordance with para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 3. The creation of para. 4. " (a) Legal persons may create at their own expense voluntary formations according to the order of the regulation under art. 44. ) (a.k.a. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u177	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 23 by importer, generally supported and edited by the Commission, which shall become § 24 in its report. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u178	Paragraph 24. Proposal by the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. Four is canceled. 2. In para. 2 the word "Publican" is replaced by "Publican" is replaced by "Publisher."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u179	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 24 by importer, generally supported and edited by the Commission, which shall become § 25 in its report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 25 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u180	Paragraph 25. Proposal by the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words shall be deemed to be in unpaid leave for the performance of civil and public obligations recognised to him as a service or service worker and shall be replaced by a release from the employer or appointing authority for the performance of civil, public and other obligations. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For the time of participation in the events under para. 1 the person receives remuneration at the expense of the state budget under conditions, in order and in the amounts set by the Council of Ministers, while this time being recognised as service or service. 3. The creation of para. 3: The volunteers shall be provided by the order of art. 4, para. 3, p. 5 and 6 of the Social Security Code, with social and health insurance contributions at the expense of the state budget. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u181	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support in principle and edited text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26 in accordance with its report; and paragraphs 26, 27 and 28, fully supported by the Commission, which shall become paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 in its report. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 26 to 29, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u182	Paragraph 29. There is a proposal made by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "home and agricultural' shall be deleted. 2. A t is created. 7. "7." temporary accommodation of persons affected (injured) by the disaster in buildings for another purpose for up to 6 months. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u183	We are voting in principle and edited by the Commission by the importer for § 29, which becomes § 30 in its report; and § 30, which becomes § 31 in the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The two paragraphs have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u184	According to § 31 the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Manol Genov and Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the word 2. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." feeding and temporary accommodation of the affected persons and animals; (b) c. 2 after the word "Supreme" the victims shall be added "Supplied" and "Supreme" shall be added. 3. In para. 4 t. 2 words.............................................................................. 195, para. 6 of the LU, due to a natural phenomenon with geological (geophysical, geophysical)..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 195, para. 6 of the LU, which is due to a natural phenomenon 4. The creation of para. 6: The temporary accommodation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be limited to the following: 2, p. 1 shall be carried out in the reserve dwellings under art. 45 of the Law on Municipal Property, in other properties, in residence wagons, prefabricated houses or tents provided by the central and territorial authorities of the executive, legal and natural persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u185	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 32 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 32 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u186	According to § 32 the proposal by the National Representative Rumen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: .) in the text before c. 1 a new sentence is created second: the Commission's decision is approved by the Council of Ministers and the previous sentence becomes a third sentence; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." preventive actions and response preparation activities from the programmes under art. 6a, para. 2, p. 2, 4 and 5 as complementary funding to the approved budget of the relevant competent authority and/or to the funds provided from other sources; 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers shall set a limit of not less than 15 per cent of the funds under para. 1 to finance the activities under para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. The creation of para. 3: The terms and conditions for financing the activities under para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined by the rules of art. 54, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u187	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 33 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 33 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u188	According to § 33 "A proposal of the National Representative Rumen Ivanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words only after a decision of the Commission shall be deleted, and after the words of the authority responsible, the following decision of the committee approved by an act of the Council of Ministers shall be added. 2. In para. 3 words with the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the decisions of the Committee shall be replaced by the Law on Public Finance and the Rules of Procedure under art. 54, para. 6.................................................................................. 3. In para. 4 words of urgent rehabilitation work are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u189	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 33, which shall be supported and edited by the Commission, shall become § 34 in its report, as well as paragraphs 34 and 35 by importer, which shall be fully supported by the Commission and shall become paragraphs 35 and 36 in its report. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 34 to 36, including on the Commission's report. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 34, 35 and 36 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u190	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 36, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the word 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 2 after the word (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." adopt a National disaster risk reduction programme and annual plans under art. 6c, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (c) c. 6 the word "predicts" is replaced by "plans." 3. In para. 3 the words "supporting the activity" shall be replaced by "supporting the implementation of the activities" and the words "consultative council" shall be replaced by "the disaster risk reduction". 4. In para. 4 words The Council of Consultants shall be replaced by the Council of Ministers, before the word of the Ministry of Justice, by the words of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and shall be added by the Bulgarian Red Cross, and the words relating to the protection from disasters shall be replaced by the members of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and shall be replaced by the members of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria with regard to the reduction of the risk of disasters. 5. In para. 5 words The Council of Consultants shall be replaced by the Council of the European Union and shall be replaced by the Council of the European Union and shall be replaced by the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u191	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 36 by importer, edited by the Commission and becoming § 37 in its report, and § 37 by importer, which shall become § 38 after full support by the Commission. We are voting on paragraphs 37 and 38 on the Commission report. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 37 and 38 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u192	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 38, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 62b: Art. 62b. (1) The Disaster Risk Reduction Board shall: 1. develop and propose to the Council of Ministers the National Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction; 2. develop and propose to the Council of Ministers the National Programme for Disaster Risk Reduction and Annual Plans under art. 6c, para. 5; 3. develop and propose to the Council of Ministers a National disaster protection plan; 4. review and update the planning documents under point 4. 1 5. assist in the development and implementation of laws and regulations relating to disaster risk reduction; propose and deliver opinions on draft regulations relating to the conduct of state disaster risk mitigation policy; 6. coordinate the implementation of the planning documents under point 6. 1 7. assist the formation and implementation of sectoral policies related to the reduction of the risk of disasters; 8. review and prepare an annual report to the Council of Ministers on the state of disaster protection; 9. communicate with the Secretariat of the United Nations International Disaster Reduction Strategy (UNISDR); 10. develop guidelines related to disaster protection. (2) The Council referred to in art. 62, para. 3 shall be chaired by the Minister of Interior and shall be represented by him. (3) To assist the performance of the functions under para. 1 to the Council under art. 62, para. 3 A permanent National Coordination Group shall be established, which shall include representatives of ministries, departments, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, universities, research institutes, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and legal entities, including representatives of non-profit legal entities concerned with reducing the risk of disasters. (4) The name composition of the group under para. 3 shall be determined by order of the Chairman of the Council under para. 2. (5) In the work of the group under para. 3 experts may be included in the order of para. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-17.u193	Statements? I won't. We vote on § 38 by importer, edited and supported by the Commission and becoming § 39 in its report; paragraphs 39 and 40 by importer, fully supported by the Commission and becoming paragraphs 40 and 41 in its report. We are voting on paragraphs 39 to 41, including the Commission report. There's no quorum. Give me the list for a roll call. [[Laughter and excitement. Noise and lines.]] We're waiting on a roll call sheet, so I'm not starting it. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm adjourned. Next meeting on Wednesday, 9:00 p.m.
