ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please register. Abort registration. Next attempt in 15 minutes. Found at 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u2	Please take your seats and registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that they be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 10 February 2016, the following additional points: 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015, adopted at first vote on 17 December 2015. 10. First vote on the Draft Amendment and Supplement for withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. Importers supplied by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its Internal Rules, signed on 30 November 2015. Then there's the rest of the points we've already accepted. Please vote. Vote 149 MPs: 120 against 9, abstention 20. The proposal for inclusion on the agenda of the points I proposed to you has been accepted. We continue with the next item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONVERSATION OF RESEARCH. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. The first vote was adopted on 28 May 2015. Mrs. Damyanova, would you like to introduce us to the report? The Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science Milena Damyanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, before this I am doing a procedure for admission to the hall of Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u4	Please vote on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Kostadinov. Vote 137 MPs: 129 against 4, abstention 4. Please invite Deputy Minister Kostadinov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u5	Report on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Research Promotion Act, No 554-01-12, submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u6	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: 116, none, abstention 15. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u7	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 1 in the new version of the name of the Law, after the preposition of the Law is added "Development." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u8	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: 23, against 44, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Please vote. Vote 124 MPs: 103, against 5, abstention 16. The Commission's proposal to dismiss § 1 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u9	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u10	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 2 by importer. They voted 121 MPs: 92 against 7, abstention 22. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u11	Paragraph 3. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 81, para. The proposal referred to in points 1 and 3 has not been discussed and voted by the Commission in the second sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal by the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Stefani Mihailova, made by the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) under the terms and conditions of this law and in accordance with the National Research Strategy, research of proven importance and international recognition shall be promoted and developed, including research related to: 1. the creation of new scientific knowledge; 2. Bulgarian history, language, culture and national identity; 3. promoting technological transfer and the development of natural, technical, humanitarian and social sciences and innovation; 4. Solving important problems in the field of economics, education, agriculture, ecology, public processes, human resources, security, defence and health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u12	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention to the following. In Parliament, we probably have no difference in the fact that, both in every country and in Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union, there should be a National Strategy for Research. However, honourable Members, there is no developed country and country of the European Union where the state is not committed, so we propose a state policy for the implementation of the National Strategy. If the State is absent, as it is present in the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Spain and other developed countries, then the National Strategy will remain a good wish, as specific state resources and state mechanisms will not be involved in the realization of these objectives. What we propose is in line with the policies for implementing the scientific strategies in the Member States of the European Union, especially those countries from which we are learning and with which we want to level the productivity of labour and competitiveness, and this, honourable Members, cannot happen without state policy and engaging state resources. So we invite you to support this important response to the practical implementation of the National Research Strategy by supporting and directly involving the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u14	It is not a voteable party. It has its own Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u15	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. You will allow me to introduce you to the ground on which the Commission has not examined the proposals.................................................................................................. 2, the third sentence: The proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote shall not be discussed and voted. If the Commission has decided so, there is no other way to decide. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 by importer made by the Commission, which in its report shall become § 1. They voted 126 MPs: 122, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 3 by importer, which becomes § 1 in the Commission report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u16	Paragraph 4. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Promoting" the development is added and the words "scientific products" are replaced by "scientific results." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 3. In para. 3 after the word "Promoting" the development is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u17	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which is edited by the Commission after its support and becomes § 2 in its report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u18	Paragraph 5. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 5: 1. the introductory wording of the paragraph shall be changed to 6 the following amendments and additions shall be made: 2. create t. 1 of § 5: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. In para. 1 the expression "National Research Strategy" shall be replaced by the words "the National Research Strategy" and "the National Research Strategy" shall be replaced by the words "the National Research Strategy" and "the 3. the text of § 5 shall be t. 2 of the same, when the following changes in the new content of para. 2 of art. 6: (a) To be created t. 1: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 1. develop and implement a sustainable national research policy; (b) c. 4 the expression "National Reform Programme" shall be replaced by the "Participant" shall be replaced by the "Participant" of the National Reform Programme; (c) c. 5 after the word "Secures', the expression "Successes' shall be added; (d) shall be established. 5a: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5a. ensure the financing of fundamental and humanities through the budget of public scientific organizations, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and the state universities; (e) create a t. 6a: 6a. provides basic /minimal/ salaries to researchers and lecturers in public organizations, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and the State Higher Schools, with an initial threshold of 2 minimum wages; Proposal by the MPs Borislav Velikov, Milen Mihov and Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers, is finally added; 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "created conditions' for "supplied'; (b) c. 5 the word "supplier" is replaced by "created conditions for "supplier"; (c) c. 6 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; 3. In para. The Council of Ministers shall be replaced by the Ministry of Education and Science through national programmes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u19	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to § 5 and the proposals that we have made. They relate to how the state must fulfil its commitments to research in the country. The first proposal we are making is that indeed the state must commit itself to funding research. The Commission's proposal and the proposal of my colleagues, instead of the Member of the Commission, speaks primarily of the National Reform Programme. The National Reform Programme, which is published, known to all of you, however, speaks not about research, but about innovative processes, innovations, which are next step in the development of research, but the foundation, the conditions for research creation are missing. Therefore, the National Reform Programme cannot be the basis for funding research. The state allocates 0.3% for research. We have agreed that by 2020, they will be 1.5%. I have no idea how this is gonna happen. Therefore, the proposal that we have made with my colleagues is that the state engages in research and innovation, the introduction of the next step, which is important in which the business is involved, therefore, to do so in such a way that they are realized in practice, because science itself does not exist. We also offer funding for fundamental and humanities through the budgets of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. Why? The budgets that have been adopted in recent years, especially in the latter, show that the budget for the implementation of such research in the country is constantly decreasing. This creates prerequisites not to go forward, but the opposite. The Agricultural Academy, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are with budgets, which provide only a fund. This cannot be a prerequisite for development and for creating an economy based on knowledge. Therefore, our proposal relates to the more active intervention of the state, even if you allow me to tell you, the text of the importer is much better than what is being made as a proposal then in the Commission's version because commitments are being made that create the framework for funding research. Please support our proposal because I think it makes sense and it is in the direction of creating a prerequisite for science in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u21	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 120 MPs: 18, against 43, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 3 of its report. Please vote. Vote 113 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 15. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u22	Paragraph 6. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 is finally added as well as with the National Reform Programme under art. 6, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u23	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The report I made shows that at the end of 2014, the Council of Ministers introduced a National Strategy for Research. This strategy has not passed through the Council of Ministers. The Higher Education Strategy has passed, but research hasn't passed, so I don't know what we're based on here, that national research policy will be conducted on the basis of a National Research Strategy. The text does not respond to the possibility of the Ministry of Education conducting such a policy, for the simple reason that there is no strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u25	There is such a strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u26	She hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u27	There's no update, there's an active strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u28	Then answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u29	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Please vote on the version proposed by the Commission for § 6, which shall be § 4. They voted 111 MPs: for 94, against 17, no abstentions. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u30	Paragraph 7. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u31	Are there any statements on this paragraph? I won't. Please vote for the removal of § 7. They voted 106 MPs: 84, against 4, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u32	Paragraph 8. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme or measures referred to in point (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. 1. The European Framework for State aid for research, development and innovation. 2. The National Research Strategy. 3. The National Reform Programme under art. 6, para. 1. 4. Framework programmes with specific priorities of the European Union, as well as other European and international initiatives. 5. The European and national road map for research infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u33	Paragraph 8 statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposed version of the Commission for § 8, which becomes § 5. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u34	Paragraph 9. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected. Paragraph 10. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u35	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposals for dropping out of paragraphs 9 and 10? I won't. Please vote on the Commission proposal to drop paragraphs 9 and 10. They voted 111 MPs: 106, none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u36	Paragraph 11. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall generally support the importer's test and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 18 is amended as Art. 18. Under the terms and conditions laid down in the Fund's Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board shall conduct a competition and the Chair of the Executive Board shall conclude a management contract with the Fund Manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u37	Statements on this paragraph? I won't. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 6. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The version of §6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u38	According to § 12 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u39	Statements? I won't. Please vote for the removal of § 12 by importer. They voted 107 MPs: 98, none, abstentioned 9. Paragraph 12 by importer is out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u40	According to § 13 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "13." Expenditure related to officials and temporary staff in the "Communications' policy area
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u41	Are there any statements under § 13? I won't. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 13, which becomes § 7. They voted 111 MPs: 98, none, abstention 13. The editing of § 7. has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u42	According to § 14 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is "1." finance projects of scientific organisations and universities based on a project-programme principle; 2. finance projects, development and demonstration projects in the scientific fields defined in the National Strategy for Research;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u43	Are there any speeches? Are you going to replace the base with the basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u44	No. Subtitles by DramaFever 23 "To be added to the list of persons, entities and bodies referred to in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011" shall be added to It goes on. 1 and 2 shall be amended as required.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u45	This will be able to vote in total with the text. There's no objection, is there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u46	Technically, it's the mistake. She's been missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u47	Any other speeches? I won't. Please vote § 14, which becomes § 8, in the version of the Commission, plus the version that the rapporteur Mrs Damyanova has just made. Voting mode. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The editing of § 8. has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u48	According to § 15 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u49	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the proposal to dismiss § 15 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: 77 against 2, abstention 27. It's okay to drop the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u50	According to § 16 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Stefani Mihailova, Borislav Velikov and Milen Mihov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 16, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." minimum and maximum funding size of individual projects; 2. They're creating a t. 5, 6, 7 and 8: It's five o'clock. eligibility criteria for applicants and activities; 6. State aid scheme under which the financing is granted; 7. criteria and indicators for evaluation; 8. additional requirements for candidates and their projects, where available.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u51	Statements? I won't. We can vote on the Commission's version of § 16, which becomes § 9. Voting mode. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The editing of § 9. has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u52	According to § 17 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u53	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the Commission proposal to drop § 17 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: 82, against 19, abstention 5. The motion to drop out has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u54	According to § 18 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1, 10 and 11. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. Proposal by the MPs Borislav Velikov, Milen Mihov and Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. He is a researcher and a researcher at a higher school and/or a scientific organisation after the acquisition of a first Master's degree in education and qualification, but not more than 10 years after it has been acquired. 2. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." He is a scientist who has acquired a doctor's first education and degree, but not more than 5 years after it was acquired. 3. A t is created. 9. Nine. "Fundamental research' is research involving experimental or theoretical work undertaken primarily in order to acquire new knowledge of the fundamental causes of phenomena or observational facts, without taking into account any direct practical application or use.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u55	Statements on the additional provision? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here we can make a mistake that we will wonder how to explain. I'm explaining what this is about. First, what will be this young scientist who will have a Master's degree? But I'm sorry, Master's degree is educational, and the science degree is Doctor's degree. And that's what the Law of Science says. In what scientific organization around the world does a master graduate from 25 years of age become a young scientist? It's a miracle of miracles! Let's not smother the world first. Second, pay attention to age: 5 years or 10 years after graduating a Master's degree. Well, colleagues, I've had a student and a Master's degree at the University of Illinois at the age of 53-55. Did you hear there are masters and grandmothers and grandfathers at 70? So here, with this Law, we're going to produce a master's degree at 73 and he's a young scientist, a master's at 74? Bravo! We'll get into CNN directly. [[Noise and lines.]] So, pull back these texts, let's not get cute and focus on the important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u57	Mrs. Damyanova, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u58	Mr. Gechev, I will read you the text, which is in the current Act on the Promotion of Research and which implies exactly these cases, which you have now expressed concerns that will happen after the adoption of the Bill. That is to say, with the amendments, we no longer create conditions for such unconventional cases in the system. I will read to you in the current Law what is meant by a young scientist: A young scientist is a person who carries out research and research activities for a higher school or scientific organization after obtaining an education degree from a Master, but not more than 10 years after it has been acquired. Look at the editing. We're adding only a first point to avoid these cases of 70-year-old scientists that you mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u59	Any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Damyanova, there are age limits for taking up junior scientific positions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u60	They're out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u61	Mr. Gechev, would you like a coat? A man may be an adult, but a young scientist, as an old man may be, but a young poet or writer. [[Radio.]] You didn't make a motion to drop out. You object to the substance. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal to dismiss § 18 or in the version of the Commission.................................................................................................. Which are for dropping the text, please vote. They voted 112 MPs: 30, against 51, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 18, which becomes § 10 in the version of the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 91, none, abstention 14. The editing of § 10. has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u62	A closing provision to the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Promotion of Research. Proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made to Section: The title shall be changed to "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u63	Statements? I won't. There is a proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. She didn't want to be motivated. I am voting on this proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 26, against 53, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the name of the division in the version of the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 18. The term "Concluding provision" has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u64	Proposal by Rumen Gechev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support: The following amendments and additions shall be made to Section: Paragraphs 18 s 23 shall be inserted: .............................................................................. The basic / minimum/ salaries under art. 6, para. 2, p. 6a under the basic contract of employment are: - for assistant suppose 2 minimum salaries; - for chief assistant "3 minimum wages; - for associate professor 4 minimum salaries; - for Professor "5 minimum wages; - additional wage for doctor.. 1 minimum wage; - additional wage for Doctor of Sciences § 19. By 2020, public funds for research development increased by 0.2% of gross domestic product each year. Of these 0.16% of gross domestic product are the funds intended for institutional financing, and 0.04% - for project financing through the Fund. § 20. Institutional financing of research activities under art. 6, para. 2, p. 5a is provided with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria only for public scientific organizations, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and the state universities. At least one third of these funds shall be used to carry out research related to the development of fundamental and humanities. § 21. The project funding of research is carried out on a competitive basis for the solution of country priority scientific tasks. The funds for project funding at national level are provided by the state budget. To solve scientific tasks, funds from other sources are also drawn from European programs and business. The effect and control of spending the funds is carried out by a single institutional mechanism, according to the rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. § 22. Public scientific organisations and state universities shall be entitled to establish, including jointly, scientific undertakings solely to support scientific activities and to transfer scientific results to business users. § 23. By 2020, the development of research universities, as well as the establishment and development of scientific centres through the joint use of financial resources, infrastructure and research between universities and scientific organisations for the implementation of joint research activities, training on joint programmes in higher education and the preparation of a new generation of young scientific staff is taking place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u65	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, you are welcome to justify your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is one of the key texts. I would like to ask your attention, as the question concerns the future of Bulgarian science and higher education. I am not strengthening things at all because it is, as you are well aware, that the pay of the young and not so young scientists, lecturers and researchers in the Bulgarian higher education institutions is below the critical level in most of them. Colleagues, we discussed the absurdity that at the moment, for example, at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, a young scientist, PhD in Physics, Chemistry, Astronomy or Economics, starts with a salary of BGN 450. What we are proposing is again in line with the practices of the European Union and beyond. In order to be specific, as we always try to be in the Federal Republic of Germany, from which we are properly taught, salaries are determined by the Ministry of Education of the Federal Republic and they are at three levels: a young scientist, a beginner salary for all VUMs - 3405 euros; second level, associate professor - 3890 euros; third level, professor - 4723 euros. Dear colleagues, to be precise, we have calculated the ratio of gross domestic product per person of the population of Bulgaria and of the Federal Republic of Germany. We have used the recalculations of the International Monetary Fund, the European Union and the World Bank for the money of purchasing power and the ratios have become drastic, honourable Members between five and ten times in the pay gap. Dear colleagues, how will our young Bulgarian talents remain in Bulgaria, given that we offer humiliating salaries lower than those of the cleaning women at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences?! Of course, there are exceptions in some state and private VUMs in Bulgaria, where wages are in smaller differences than those of Western Europe, but the average level is far away, at times less than the recalculated levels of money of purchasing power. I want to tell you that in the Federal Republic of Germany, students studying at state universities, colleagues, are 95%. Five percent of students are in private universities, so 95% of lecturers in the Federal Republic of Germany are covered by mandatory pay levels determined by the Government of the Federal Republic. Secondly, in the Republic of France, honourable Members, salaries in all French higher education institutions are determined by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of France. So we propose to introduce something that is done in all, as we call them, civilized, developed and less developed countries. Colleagues, isn't it absurd that we have minimum wages and scales of pay, as we well know, for teachers in primary and secondary education. Is that right?! The practice of countries around the world is to have such minimal rocks in higher education. I invite you to have a mind here there is nothing political, it is about the future of the Bulgarian economy and competitiveness. We all agree that there is no other way to level the differences in the competitiveness of Bulgaria and other countries than the development of Bulgarian science and giving way to our talented children and scientists. Let us make this gesture in Bulgaria to do what they do in the other European countries to introduce minimum wage in order to ensure that not the worst remain at BGN 450. salary. Your children, if they are talented, with doctoral degrees, will they go to work for 450 leva. Or would you advise them to go somewhere else?! If we really want to restore the Bulgarian economy, Bulgarian competitiveness and Bulgarian science, we must create normal, minimal conditions for our young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Do you have any lines for scientists' salaries? Mr. Mihov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u68	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Gechev, you are asking a very serious question and I agree with you that it should be discussed, discussed and addressed, I would say, the main issues related to the development of Bulgarian science and Bulgarian higher education. I would just like to recall that close to 70 to 80% of the budget of higher schools is a fund of work. If we know this, we will know that the financing of higher education is actually in its basis the pay of the labor of Bulgarian scientists and lecturers. This concerns the entire system of financing higher education and your arguments deserve attention. However, I refrain from supporting the introduction of your proposals into this Law because they do not belong here. I believe that such an important issue cannot be settled perhaps I would be mistaken in transitional and final provisions. The question of financing higher education is the question of the future of Bulgarian education. I, too, think that all of our colleagues in the Commission, and in this National Assembly, we share the concern for decent pay, and this ensures security and sustainability of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Damyanova, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u70	Honourable Professor. Gechev, I would remind you that this part of a decree that fixed and regulated the salaries of the scientists in higher schools of teachers and scientists in higher schools and scientific organizations was cancelled in 2008 precisely by the Stanishev cabinet. It was not restored during the Oresharski government when you had the opportunity. Yes, the topic of financing higher education in Bulgaria and science is a serious topic. Especially with regard to higher education and the paying of teachers, I believe that, with the amendments to the Higher Education Act, which I hope we will consider next week in plenary, we are proposing a solution. With these amendments we will regulate in general the way of financing the different professional directions, the specialties. This will also reflect on the pay of teachers in higher schools. This is the key issue covered by this Amendment and Supplement Act, according to quality finance. Again, the subject is about the Higher Education Act, which I hope we will consider in plenary next week. Indeed, let us not forget what steps we have taken in previous years and now, when we are in opposition, try to compensate. It's very easy to be in opposition. I expected you to take these steps in the Forty-second National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u71	Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Gechev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I keep thinking that for problems such as education, health and defence, we should do everything possible not to politicize them as much as possible. It doesn't matter which government before what decided. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] We MPs can't justify ourselves. We have ruined the Bulgarian army brought to zero Bulgarian defenses in troubled times... [[Replying, shouting and noise from GERB.]] No, no, listen to not one government, many governments. Twenty-five years young scientists work for 450 BGN, but we continue to comment on whether this can continue or not. Colleagues, there is a concrete proposal. It's our responsibility right now. We have a billion-dollar surplus in the budget. I understand. This is 4 million. BGN, which is not an amount that would be a problem for the Bulgarian finances. Secondly, pay attention, the issue should not be political, but related to the future of Bulgaria, colleagues. The second question is that the Law on Higher Education, a colleague, does not regulate the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences because, as you know, it is not an institution of higher education. Then what are we doing with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences? We're kicking her! Until when? By 2025, when everything collapses?! Then we will rebuild and where will we look for our young researchers? From Africa or Latin America? Colleagues, let's settle this. We are talking about insignificant financial resources against the backdrop of the opportunities of the Bulgarian state, however limited they may be. Any delay in this decision prolongs the agony of Bulgarian science. Let's not let this agony continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Any other speeches? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! While we refrain from supporting proposals related to the wages of researchers in the country, staff is leaking out and, at the same time, prerequisites are being created not to implement any scientific projects that meet, including the requirements of the business. The report shows that Bulgaria has proved to be one of the first countries in the European Union to use the so-called "panel" to support the scientific policies under Horizon 2020. Last October, a report prepared by the European Commission and presented by the Commissioner in 125 pages analyzes the state of Bulgarian science. In addition to making an analysis, he also gives a recommendation on what steps should be taken in relation to the Bulgarian science being competitive and fulfilling its commitments. The findings made in this analysis are appalling. We have a catastrophic reduction in the number of scientists - 4.43 scientists per 1,000 employed, while the average rate for the European Union is 10.55. The patients who received the degree of doctor and 1000 people, that is between 25 and 34 years of age, in Bulgaria are only 0.6% in Europe average of 1.7%. For comparison: the percentage of doctors in Croatia - 1,5, Slovakia - 1.9, Romania - 1.7. In other words, the European report, which we have requested to prepare for us and which has recommendations, and we do not implement it, tells us: invest, fix the salaries of the scientists in Bulgaria; invest in laboratories, in technologies, so that scientific projects can be implemented. None of this has been accepted. In Budget 2016, we are seeing how the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was reduced, how the Agricultural Academy was also reduced by about 20%. Tell me how we are doing and how we implement this report, or do we need documents to account for some activity, but then in politics we do not realize them? If we do not start in the laws, as is the Research Act, we do not change the parameters and rules for funding science, we cannot fulfil our commitments, including within the European Union. Please, this is the second time we've asked this question, but somehow he doesn't have... There's a wall on the side that doesn't want to know what the problem is and doesn't want to solve it with funding. These are the things we should do in budgets when we accept them in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u75	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Zablyanov. Then Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u76	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to draw attention to this text, not for any other reason, but because it has a serious financial motivation, there is a financial justification for it. Professor Gechev mentioned what this increase will cost the budget. The legislative practice in the leading European countries was outlined. That is, the proposal we are making is not of the type: Give, gentlemen, let us give! It will not destroy the budget of the Republic and the only thing that can happen is to encourage practically Bulgarian science, as the texts that we have adopted so far, even where there has been talk about the need for the state to have a concrete and clear financial commitment, have been rejected. What do we accept this Law for anyway? ▪ To have a Law on Promotion without commitment?! Who then encourages research? The state has no commitment, does not increase wages, we do not increase budgets, we do not release programmes. So what does this Law do, how does it promote science? This issue has also been raised in the Commission. During the discussion, I raised it. Then what are we even talking about? What is the content of our work? Okay, how long do we delay this question until the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences closes until the research centers in universities are closed, which, with rare exceptions, are already working with equipment from 25 years ago, which rely on some European programmes to possibly come, to ensure the material provision of researchers? It is also not a question of wages, as it is known that the so-called funding, which is prepared in the next programme period in the field of science, primarily concerns individual projects. It won't solve the wage issue. This is the basic motivation of a person to do something, especially science. I can't understand the refusal!? There is no argument, so far I have not heard an argument, including the introduction of the Bill.. My colleague Mr. Mihov, what he said: I agree with everything, not now. When? Really when and why and not now? And what's the big deal about the billions you mentioned? Gechev, collected too much in the budget? Every week we are flooded with the financial successes of the government and the Revenue Agency. Every week! In the end, what? ▪ Can't there be 5 million for the salaries of young scientists and researchers? Oh, yeah?! What do you expect from the spirituality and culture of the Bulgarian people, what will remain? I don't get it.! Perhaps some very close party considerations dictate this policy, but I urge you to give it up. The authority of no one will be harmed if you accept this proposal, only the Bulgarian scientific community will win. For her, no one has really done a gesture in the last 25 years, and on top of that, we will not go against the newly accepted values that we love. The values this time do not oblige us not to give money to our scientists, as you have learned from the experience of the leading European countries in scientific terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u77	Thank you. The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u78	Mr. Zablyanov, you have developed a good topic, but I would like to ask you: do you not think that the refusal to give money for science is the result of the overall policy that is being pursued here, in terms of both the economy of the state and so on? In the end, if we are going to turn Bulgaria into a service country, it is like waiters, or as waitresses, or as masseuses, we do not need science. The majority believes that if more money is given to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, it will be money thrown to the wind because Bulgaria will not need science at all in such a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u79	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] There was a chance for more lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ermenkov, I share part of what you said that this approach is an element of the overall policy of restrictions for the public sector in every respect. There's money for everything else, but you can't find money for schools, universities, hospitals and so on. The health care fund, which boasts that its budget is well implemented, only does not say that it is at the expense of several district hospitals in which they shut down wards.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u81	It's not about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u82	I'm answering a line. I'm sorry. It's a doppelganger, not a statement. [[Heckling]] It's philosophy, I agree, but you can always take a step. That's why I said you could come out of the liberal dogmatics that got us into this economic backwardness. If anyone believes that Bulgaria can come out economically without giving money for science without having its own research without attracting investment on this basis... How many years of tax cuts in Bulgaria? How many is that? Who are the other countries with such taxes in Europe - 10% corporate tax? Where's the foreign investment? Why aren't they coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u83	You brought him in again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u84	Why aren't they coming? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Isn't it, as the Bulgarian people say, that there must be some yeast here? They have to come for some reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u85	You brought him in, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u86	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, the prospects of this being corrected are minimal. Therefore, we must mature the entire Bulgarian society and force its chosen ones to say: "See what, we will not vote for you until you support the Bulgarian state, Bulgarian production, Bulgarian science, Bulgarian transport and open the border with Greece! " Then they'll know what it's about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u87	There is another statement made by Mr. Stanilov. I don't think there's anyone else. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u88	Dear colleagues! On this topic, I have been a spokesperson since 2005. I will recall how the triple coalition, with sufficient resources in the budget, did not solve it. We have to be responsible: both you on the right and you in the center, and you on the left will not do it. You didn't do it, you were in power. And you won't, because that's the dictatorship, that's the philosophy. Libertarian philosophy allows the world to have two or three major centers to suck the resource out and suck it out successfully. In Germany there are 12 thousand Bulgarian students, of which 98% remain there. That's been 10 years. I know, I even have family, friends who teach at German universities, researchers. In Max Planck there are at most 780 people, I think, until three years ago. So you're not gonna do that. It can only be done by a government that has strong pants and says no. We will not do it, we will create a condition to have science in Bulgaria on the high floor. But for us, high matter means nothing to those who are in this room, including me, if I couldn't do anything about it. One thing is clear, once we find a willpower resource to push the button another way, something might change. But if we keep our mouths shut and vote like we've been told, it's not gonna work. Nothing at all! These salary comparisons don't impress anyone. These comparisons that the doctor and chief assistant get as much as the cleaning lady, who do they impress? Even in private companies, there are cleaning women who get twice as many as the senior assistants. That's known to everyone. It is known exactly how science is financed everywhere. And here, when it was GERB's first term, my friend Simeon Djankov would come out and say: science is financed only through projects! It's a complete lie! It's got nothing to do with it. Max Planck is financed in the same way for 20 years: 85% state subsidy, 5% private business, 10% projects. That's how it's funded to this day. That's what no one pays attention to. In Bulgaria, half of the resource is outside the state participation, the Bulgarian research institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, for example, which is a research organisation, has only received a European assessment. The European Association of Academies of Sciences says that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has a mid-European level, and seven institutions have three times "A" meaning at world level! For a seven-million-dollar state of these salaries, hardly anyone can imagine what this achievement is. But in Bulgarian research science everything is overheated and going down, because with these salaries we can no longer attract talented people. There are people coming who aren't at the right level of the brain, I'm telling you frankly. I participate constantly in various PhD contests, awards of habilitation degrees for positions and so on. That's the situation. Everything's going down. And if you think that the Bulgarians are, I will repeat my phrase from the last term, stupid, simple and stupid, that they do not deserve high matter in their existence, vote as you wish. I will vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u89	Thank you. Are there lines? [[Reply from GERB: "Procedure! "]] I don't think there are any other statements. You want to stop the speeches? Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. We can move on to voting on the proposals. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev and others who brought it in, which was justified. It is not supported by the Commission. Please vote on this proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 37, against 24, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u90	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Milen Mihov, Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The Minister of Education and Science shall align with this Law in agreement with the Minister of Finance the Rules of the Fund "Research" within one month of the entry into force of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u91	Mrs. Damyanova, do you accept the version of the Ministry of Education in agreement with the Minister of Finance in accordance with this Law? I think it's better, but decide whether we should vote in this paper or in the one you read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u92	The offer is from the referees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u93	I think for the Education Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u94	The proposal, Mr. Chairman, is one of the National Assembly's referees, so I personally don't have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u95	No, I'm asking you as a MP because referees aren't the people who...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u96	Personally, I don't have... But they're not the ones who are responsible for the texts or how they're going to be constructed. I have no objection to your proposed editing, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u97	Thank you. Let us vote § 11 in the following version. ..................................................... The Minister of Education and Science, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, shall bring the Rules of the Fund "Research" in accordance with this Law within one month of the entry into force of this Law. Please vote § 19, which becomes § 11 in the version read. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. Thus § 11 was adopted, and that concludes the vote on the Bill to promote research at second reading. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A procedure relating to the first vote adopted yesterday on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. I am making a procedural proposal for an extension of the term under art. 80, para. One out of seven days a week.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u99	Any other proposals for the deadline? I won't. I ask those who support this proposal to vote. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now going to the next item on the agenda, as he was voted on by specifying at the beginning of the sitting: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CULTURE RESEARCH LAW. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova, for a second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr. Boil Banov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u101	Please vote. 70 MPs voted: 69 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We move on to the provisions of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention the Second Voting Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act, No 502-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2015, and adopted at the first vote on 17 December 2015. "Renewal and Supplement to the Law on Cultural Heritage" (Obn., SG No. ...). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u103	Are there any statements on the title? I won't. Vote the motion made. They voted 71 MPs: 70 against 1, no abstentions. The title is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u104	Paragraph 1. Proposal from the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 t. 2 the following amendments and 1. A new letter shall be created in the following: (c) serials consisting of two or more real-estate cultural heritage sites, regardless of their location and united by clear cultural, time, social and/or functional links; 2. To date, the letters "in', "y' and "y' become respectively letters "y', "y', "y' and "y' respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u105	Thank you. Is there a Paragraph 1 statement? I won't. Please vote on the version of the Commission for § 1. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 1 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u106	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 and § 3. No new proposals have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u107	Statements? I won't. Please vote § 2 and § 3 in the version of the importer. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 2 and 3 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u108	Paragraph 4. Proposal from the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The words of the Minister of Culture shall be replaced by the words of Art. 63. 58. ) (a.k.a. 1's and 1's, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraph 6. Proposal from the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: It's six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109a, sentence one after the word "Offices" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u109	Are there any statements on the reported paragraphs? I won't. Please vote on § 4, § 5 and § 6, as reported. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u110	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Paragraph 8. Proposal from the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 132 is amended as follows: Art. 132. (1) Movemental cultural values which have been illegally exported from the territory of the country and have been found in the territory of another Member State of the European Union, hereinafter referred to as the Member State of departure, as well as those which have been illegally exported from the territory of a Member State and have been found in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be returned. (2) On return under the terms and conditions of this section shall be subject to movable cultural values which: 1. before or after their illegal export from the territory of the country have the status of the property acquired under the conditions of the Bulgarian legislation; 2. are an integral part of a public collection owned by the authorities of state or local authorities or an institution financed to a significant extent by the authorities of state and local authorities, or are part of the collections of museums, libraries and of an archive fund; 3. are included in collections of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church or other registered religions. (3) The provisions of this Section shall also apply to illegally exported movable cultural values which do not fall within the scope of para 1, but meet the criteria of para. 2 if no more than 30 years have passed since the date of their illegal export.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u111	Thank you. Are there any statements on these paragraphs? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on § 7, as proposed by the importer, and § 8 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs have been adopted. Mrs. Karastoyanova, report the next few paragraphs on which there are no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u112	Dear Mr President, from § 9 to § 19 including no proposals received. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers from § 9 to § 19 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u113	Statements? I won't. We move on to a vote that includes the texts from § 9 to § 19 inclusive. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u114	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 1 and 3 the words................................................................................................... 132, para. 2 and 3 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. Proposal from the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words under art. 150, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 150, para. 2. In para. 4 words under art. 150, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 150, para. The following information shall be provided in
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u115	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 20, the supported text of the importer for § 21 and the new § 22 in the version of the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u116	Dear Mr President, paragraphs 22 to 24 include no proposals. The Commission shall support the importer's texts for paragraphs 22, 23 and 24, which become paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u117	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Please vote on paragraphs 22 to 24 which, in the Commission numbering, become paragraphs 23 to 25 respectively, including. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u118	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 2 shall finally be added:...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 2. Paragraph 2a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The provisions of Chapter Six, Section Seven, shall apply only to movable cultural values which have been illegally exported from the territory of a Member State considered since 1 January 1993. 3. In § 4: (a) c. 4 point (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) c. 5 words of wealth shall be replaced by the words of art. 132, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (c) c. 6 the words "supplied wealth" shall be replaced by "supplied" under art. 132, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (d) c. 7 the words "supplied wealth" shall be replaced by "supplied" under art. 132, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (e) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. The owner is the person who actually holds a movable cultural value at his own expense. (f) To be created t. 8a: Eight o'clock. The State is a person who actually holds a movable cultural value for third parties. (g) create a t. 20: It's 20. "Institution financed to a significant extent by the authorities of the state and the local authorities" within the meaning of art. 132, para. 2, p. 2 is any legal person with the status of a budgetary organisation under the Public Finance Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u119	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 25 which, after the amendment of the Commission, shall become § 26 in its report. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. Paragraph 26 of the Commission report has been adopted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 26, which, following the Commission's support, becomes § 27 in its report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 27 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. Report to the end, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u120	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Persons who until the entry into force of this law have been authorised to carry out field archaeological research but do not meet the requirements of art. 150, para. 1 may apply for authorisation under Article 1. 150, if they hold an educational-qualification degree of Master in a professional field of history and archaeology, with a specialization or profile of archaeology, or have 10 years of professional experience as an archeologist and at least twice were heads of field archaeological research. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 30. According to § 29 of the present proposal by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Borislav Milanov and Petar Kadiev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u121	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I would like to vote on the text of the importer for the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" supported by the Commission, the text of the importer for § 27, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 28 in its report, the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 29 with the corresponding content in accordance with the Commission report, the text of the importer for § 28, which after support from the Commission becomes § 30, and the text of the importer for § 29, which, after support and editing by the Commission, becomes § 31. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Board of Appeal and the final provisions of the division, as well as paragraphs 27 to 31, including on the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The name of the division "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 27 to 31, including on the Commission's report, have been adopted and the Draft at second reading has been adopted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u123	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW TO BE TAKEN OUT OF THE STATE OF INDEPENDENTLY ACCOMPONSIBILITY. The bill was submitted by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u124	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe for the first reading on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, No 554-01-107, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015. At its meeting on 1 July 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of Illegally Acquired Property, No 554-01-107, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova and Mrs. Stoyanka Nikolakova, Members of the Commission, and Mr. Trifon Trifonov, Head of the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Victoria Milanova, Secretary of State, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert in the Directorate of the Legal Service. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property was presented by Mr. Plamen Georgiev. The draft is in line with the strategic guidelines for preventing and combating corruption for the period 2015 - 2020 and is in line with the adopted Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of funds and proceeds of criminal activity in the European Union. The aim is to establish more efficient rules for confiscating assets that are not directly related to the specific crime. It is proposed that there is a non-compliance between the property and the net income when the size of the non-compliance exceeds BGN 120 000. for the period under review. It shall be possible for the Commission authorities to conduct a search and seizure under the Code of Criminal Procedure, to require explanations from the person inspected and the persons associated with it, and to request information from all third parties in relation to the verification carried out. The bill provides for a change in the distribution of the burden of evidence, until proven otherwise, that the property which has not been declared to the Commission has been illegally acquired. The possibility for the Commission to be able to refer to the National Revenue Agency, such as the evidence collected in the proceedings to retain their procedural value in the tax proceedings and the time limit for submitting a request to be extended up to six months from the imposition of the safeguard measures is set out. It is proposed that at least 20 percent of the value of the property taken out in favour of the State be used for social purposes by the State. The bill does not require additional funds from the state budget. Positive opinions have been received on the submitted Draft Law by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, as well as a negative opinion by the National Statistical Institute on the proposal for disclosure of statistical secrecy. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Hamid Hamid, Cetin Kazak, Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov. They agreed that some of the proposed amendments and additions to the Bill should be refined. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a procedural proposal. I request an access procedure for Mr. Plamen Georgiev, President of the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov from the parliamentary tribune. Vote 80 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 1. Please invite Mr. Georgiev to the hall. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Dimitar Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u126	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, No 554-01-107, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 15 July 2015 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. The meeting was attended by: Elena Arapculiev, State Expert at the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of Justice and by the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, and Antoaneta Tsonkova, Commissioner. According to importers, the purpose of the proposed Bill is to address problems identified in the two-year implementation of the Law on Withdrawal for the benefit of the State of illegally acquired property. Clearer and more efficient rules should be established for the confiscation of assets that are not directly related to a specific crime; protection of state interest by restoring profits acquired from criminal activity. A right of the Commission authorities to withdraw illegally acquired property is introduced to be entitled to conduct a search and seizure in accordance with the PPC. A legal opportunity is created to obtain information from insurance institutions. It shall be possible for the members of the Commission to be entitled to no more than two consecutive terms. It is proposed that the National Statistical Institute should provide statistical information on the persons examined with a view to the completeness of the economic analysis. The property is intended to be assessed at the time of its acquisition or alienation. The Bill proposes that at least 20% of the value of the property taken out in favour of the State be used for social purposes. The reduction in the amount of the non-compliance claimed is proposed between net income and assets from 250 thousand to 120 thousand, given the reduced verified period from 15 to 10 years. The text defining the concept of incomes is proposed to be refined. The final provisions shall make a corresponding change to the Insurance Code. According to importers, the bill does not require additional funds from the state budget. On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required opinions. The Ministry of Justice supports the Bill and proposes legal technical corrections. The Ministry of Finance supports the proposed amendments in principle. At the same time, it is considered that the proposed change in § 18 for the use of 20% of the value of the property forfeited in favour of the State for social purposes is unclear. The proposed provision is contrary to the Law on Public Finance and the Law on Legislative Acts, and the wording of § 18. The Ministry of Economy shall make observations on the proposed texts of paragraphs 9, 13 and 20 and shall propose a wider discussion in order to formulate provisions which at the same time satisfy the public interest and at the same time do not give rise to contradictions with legal principles and norms, as in the case of the presumption of innocence. The National Statistical Institute considers the proposed changes concerning the provision of information by the NSI on the annual financial statements of the legal persons examined by reference to Regulation (EC) No are unlawful, which govern the legal framework of European statistics and require statistical confidentiality. The NSI could not cooperate as there is a special regime on individual information provided for statistical purposes. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria does not support the Bill because it believes that three absolutely unacceptable things are introduced: the opposite burden of proof for all defendants; the introduction of the presumption of unlawfulness of any property subject to verification; the Commission is created the right to disseminate the information collected and to use it in the proceedings for issuing a criminal order or under a tax audit act. This bill reproduces the legislative ideas criticised by the Venice Commission. In the subsequent discussion representatives of the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front Rumen Hristov and Boris Yachev declared that they do not support the bill because they are solidarity with the notes on it of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. People's representative Petar Kanev disagreed with the wording of § 9 on the declaration of property. Plamen Georgiev, President of the Commission, answered the questions asked. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: 7 votes for abstention and 6 votes for abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on withdrawal for the benefit of the state of illegally acquired property, No 554-01-107, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Opinion of the Member of the National Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be extremely brief in the presentation of the Bill. Both reports of the leading Legal Commission and of the accompanying Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism presented the main highlights in the amendments proposed in this Draft Law. I will stress only two circumstances and make a request to the President. The first fact is that this Bill proposes amendments which are laid down in European legislation and specifically in the said Directive 2014/42/EU. In addition to transposing the requirements of the Directive, the bill is made entirely according to the proposals of the Bulgarian Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In the comments in the Legal Committee, the accents were placed on two key issues. The first is a reduction in the size of the discrepancy in property to the size of 120 thousand. lv. The second material, subject to debate, circumstance concerns the proposal in § 9, that is to say, a change in the burden of evidence in respect of the illegally acquired property in the procedure to be carried out before the Commission for withdrawal. I appeal, I ask for your support of the Bill as it is tabled. If the bill is adopted in the first vote, I am convinced that a large part of the MPs will make proposals between first and second readings. With this, colleagues, I intend to complete the short presentation and request to the President Mr. Glauchev and to the President of the Commission for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property Mr. Plamen Georgiev in case President Plamen Georgiev wishes, please, Mr. Chairman, to give him the opportunity to present the Bill in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There is no desire on the part of Mr. Georgiev to present the Bill, so I am opening the debates. If there are any questions to him, then he could only take an attitude. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In a few words, we will also express our support for the proposed bill. In general, we will support it, however, we have sharp remarks to several texts on the right to search and seizure, proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Here are mixed GPC proceedings, PPCs, in general we are talking about civil confiscation, and we are talking about PPC proceedings. Apart from that, I would like to draw your attention to two issues that are not covered by the Bill, but it is nice between first and second readings to be settled. First of all, this is the issue of donations made by persons subject to confiscation. It's more moral. When donations are made for lifesaving equipment, for the treatment of sick children, the Commission is now obliged to confiscate both equipment and medicines and means of costly operations. It is a moral conflict that needs to be settled. The next issue to be settled in the Bill is due to the frequent judicial decisions seeking a direct link between criminal proceedings and civil confiscation. We have already observed several court decisions that terminate the revocation proceedings with the argument that criminal proceedings have been terminated in one way or another. It shouldn't be done like this. There is no such connection, because in these cases also there is an illegally acquired property and this property cannot be taken away. I appeal, of course, not to this Law, but to note from here on and the conditions under which the Commission staff work. These employees are paid as much as a cleaning lady in the Council of Ministers, so in the State Budget Bill, we need to take this Commission a little more seriously. This is our most successful Commission of this kind, which works with the best indicators, with the best successes. I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission on the successes that have been achieved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u131	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is sad that, on such an important bill, the House is half empty, but obviously, when it comes to combating corruption, with criminal activities that enrich certain persons, the interest is not so great. It is undeniable that this Law must be changed. The question is, however, what will result from these amendments? Mr. Kirilov said that many of the changes are in line with European practice. But is it? I will pay attention, first, to the amendment provided for in art. 24, where the number What does that really mean, guys? Until now, this meant that proceedings under art. 22 of the same Law, if there has been a drastic discrepancy, which must be no less than $150,000. lv. This practically tied the Commission's hands, much of the illegally acquired property remained outside the scope of these checks. However, the question arises: and with 50 thousand, under the conditions of Bulgaria and under European practice, which shows that these discrepancies are in the order of 5 thousand. And 10,000. EUR, why we in Bulgaria put almost five times the threshold, which is 25 thousand. EUR, calculated over that 50 thousand. lv.? Why? Once we have in the Code of Criminal Procedure and a table of crimes of the size set, this change should really correspond to European practices, and I think it suits the number here to be 20 thousand. BGN, which will now enable the Commission to have a wider scope and a wider range of action and, ultimately, indeed, those who have enriched themselves in criminal and illegal ways, to serve themselves well. The next change is related to those 20% that should be used according to our proposed amendments to the Social Purposes Act. This is the creation of a new paragraph 5, which, however, is so generally written that I cannot, for example, navigate for what social purposes these 20% will be used. If anyone can explain it, it'll be fine. Before that, however, another more interesting question arises, which I wonder why it is not affected by the Law. In fact, what has been robbed over the years, colleagues? Property was robbed that was created by our mothers and fathers. This has been robbed and continues to be robbed. Here the big question is shouldn't these revenues go where they belong, namely in the Silver Fund, to support the pension system? It is an indisputable fact that our mothers and fathers, in their vast part, live with miserable low pensions in the order of BGN 157. So all the efforts to take away this property, which was created by our mothers and fathers, the revenues must go where they will be used most effectively. I think it is good to create a single paragraph in which the employees of this Commission should also be stimulated with a corresponding percentage, because they bear a very small responsibility. They are very often threatened, it is not a secret, and for this risk they are taking, I think it is not shameful, and I think it is appropriate that a legislative rate should be set for effective work. I repeat: for effective work! That's more important than that, I think. There is another decrease in one number from 250 to 120 thousand, which can also be reduced by another 50 thousand, for example. lv. This is my opinion, but since we are looking at the Law on His Philosophy, it is good to focus precisely on those moments, which really make the Commission an effective body, and the Law to be also active, and to finally satisfy the public desires of those responsible for plundering Bulgaria to get what they deserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, not so much as a replica, because with most of your arguments I agree, but rather because you asked for an explanation of the concept of social activities. It was right, actually, and my colleague Hamid and I reacted obviously to this in order to give an appropriate explanation, which is in the following sense. There are cases where it turns out that something good has been done with the illegally enriched property. You mean donations have been made. Most often donations are for social purposes of hospitals and so on. Here the question arises: by taking away the property, should a well-founded user be a kind of damage, a medical service limited or prevented, thereby being comprehensive or complete? This is the idea of having a part that can remain with the social consumer. I allow myself, as a former governor of the district, to say to whom the Commission has sent the stolen property, a large part of the stolen property could also be used for social purposes for the needs of both educational and health care and other purposes. With regard to the size of the limits, I will repeat again, on this perhaps many colleagues will offer their views on the limits in the two hypotheses, which you referred to. I give just for example what we have established everyone who attended the International Conference on property forfeiture that, for example, in England, this amount is 10,000. Pounds. We are done with this, and I am done with the European report, Mr. Bajraktarov, because you commented on the directives. I was uncomfortable with the European report that the only real and substantial criticism of the National Assembly was that we had not seen this Bill for seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line.. the national representative Evgeni Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, with the actual downfall of 50, we can make it five, but this does not make us bigger fighters against corruption and from 120 to 20 on both terms... I can tell you that because I have worked this job, there once was a Office for the Prevention and Disclosure of Tax Offensives of the Tax Administration. 1997-2000. And from our practice then, when we carried out an inspection, it was under....... mosquito 2.................................................. And we started proving income. What, though, does it prove to be? Half of Tarnovo, because I am from the National Assembly, had borrowed money from Krasi Balakov because he is one of the few people with proven incomes in the city. The other part presented us birth certificates, christenings of videos, weddings where the children leave with the bridesmaids in front and collect 20 - 30, and in some ethnic groups, you know, collect far more than thousands of leva. It's money. It's money. When I go to a wedding, I give my money to these kids. They collect the money, the groomsmen count in the morning, and it turns out they have money for two Mercedes. And they're jumping two new Mercedes ahead. What are we doing? It's okay to cut the money. Let's take it down to five thousand, but at the end of the day, I'm telling you, the practice shows that if someone checks out his firm, he quickly loses his mind about his firm. He'll find one of the gypsy ethnicities to sell it. However, when it comes to property, to withdrawal, then the Bulgarian becomes ferocious, screened. He finds ways to keep his property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoev, I'll start with my coat first. I hope that you have very accurately and clearly read which law we are currently commenting on. We are commenting on the Law on the forfeiture of property acquired by..................................................................................................................................................................... Property acquired in a criminal way! This has nothing to do with what you tried to suggest about tax violations. There's a big code for tax violations. It's called the D.O.C., this code, and you know how to handle tax violations. Just because I made some sort of accounting mistake or committed a tax violation by not declaring any income doesn't mean that income is obtained in a criminal way. The difference is huge and do not try to shift the subject right now, because that is not the point at all. We are talking about property, I repeat, obtained in a criminal way, that is, criminal privatization with drastic violation of the law, of a criminal nature, with elements of corruption in which an enterprise is purchased at a ridiculous amount, then sold out of scrap and someone with a large neck becomes very, very rich. That's what this is all about. And that is why this Commission was created at the time, precisely to break these crimes, because the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people lost billions of dollars in this criminal activity, not accounting errors and tax errors. These are two completely different things. Two very different things! Where the National Revenue Agency has identified non-compliance with undeclared income, it shall collect them under the appropriate mechanism. Unfortunately, he also failed to collect, because in the last reference he pointed to over 500 million. lv. There are no such claims, but here I say that we are talking about something quite different. Otherwise, colleague Danail Kirilov, he expressed full agreement with me and I hope precisely the Legal Commission will take the most seriously because there is the legal capacity that can really turn the Law into working and make the work of the Commission effective, about what I talked about. And as far as social objectives are concerned, this is the way it is defined: for social purposes, in practice, I remember only one such case for donation. Not to mention the donation was made by a former football boss of a foundation and so on. It's one thing. I'm finishing up here the question is maybe in another direction. When municipalities that have received such properties have to pay them to the state. Maybe this should be more precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending the Law on withdrawal in favour of the state of illegally acquired property, No 554-01-107, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 29 May 2015. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously.. there is no objection........................................................................................................ at first Colleagues, there will be an exhibition opening in the holiday. Today at 11.30 in the northern lobby of the National Assembly will be opened an exhibition dedicated to 120 years after the release of the first issue of "Lov" magazine and fishing. The exhibition is initiated by the National Hunting and Fisheries Association. All MPs are invited to the opening of the exhibition. It's 11:34. I'll see you at 12:00. I'm going to take a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u140	Honourable Members, we shall continue with the plenary sitting. The next item is: Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, After this introduction to the state structure of many countries and geographical walk, we can move on to the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will be presented by the Vice-President of the Commission, National Representative Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u141	At its regular meeting held on 17 December 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined Draft No 502-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2015, signed on 15 September 2014. The bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir. By signing the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union and under the Act of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the amendments to the Treaties on which the European Union is based (retired by law, SG No. 40 from 2005) our country automatically accedes to the Partnership Agreement, as well as to the Internal Agreement between the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council on the financing of Community aid within the framework of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2008 In accordance with art. 4, para. 2 of the Internal Agreement, the Member States of the EU undertake to be guarantors of the EIB under the loan agreements concluded by the Bank to provide loans from its own funds under the Cotonou Agreement. The guarantee is limited to 75 per cent of the total amount of loans granted by the EIB under the financial contracts. For this purpose in accordance with art. 4, para. 4 of the Internal Agreement shall be concluded a Guarantee Agreement between the Member States and the European Investment Bank with which Member States shall ensure the fulfilment of all financial obligations in respect of loans granted by the Bank by its own resources under the Cotonou Agreement and undertake to pay any guaranteed amount due by the debtor of the bank when the guarantee is activated. The guarantee covers all risks to projects financed by the European Investment Bank in the public sector. For private sector projects, the guarantee covers all political risks, with the European Investment Bank taking all commercial risks. No bail has been activated so far under the Guarantee Agreement. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria agreements are subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed Draft. The Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank concerning the loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Gulf basin, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Austria and the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic of Austria and the Republic of the Republic ofAustria , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic ofAustria , the Republic of the Republic ofAustria , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Austria of Austria of the Republic of the Republic of Austria of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republicof the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u142	Thank you. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov is absent. Someone from the Commission's leadership? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u143	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill of ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank concerning loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, as well as in the overseas countries and territories, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of Poland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania This Decision shall At its meeting held on 19 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in Africa, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Spain, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Luxembourg, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Latvia, the Czech Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the United Kingdom of Latvia-Bissau-Bissau, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania of Lithuania-Bissau, the Republic of Lithuania-Bissau, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Latvia-Bissau-Bissau, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of The meeting was attended by Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Gergana Beremska, Director of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova. It pointed out that under the Agreement, the Member States of the European Union undertake to be guarantors of the European Investment Bank under the loan agreements concluded by the Bank for the provision of loans from its own funds under the Cotonou Agreement, and for the purpose of the guarantee, an agreement for the administration of the defaults regulating payment and recovery procedures under the guarantees given by the Member States in favour of the European Investment Bank shall also be concluded. The guarantee is limited to 75 per cent of the total amount of loans granted by the European Investment Bank from its own resources under financial contracts with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and overseas countries and territories. Given that the total amount of loans cannot amount to EUR 2500 million for the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific and EUR 100 million for the overseas countries and territories, the total amount of the guarantee borne by the Member States amounts to EUR 1950 million. The share of each Member State in the total amount of the guarantee shall be determined according to the amount of its participation in the share capital of the European Investment Bank, which for Bulgaria is 0,177 per cent the share of Bulgaria in the total amount of the guarantee for the period 2014-2020 shall be EUR 3 451 500. Upon activation of the guarantee, the payment shall be made no later than 3 years after the deposit by the European Investment Bank of the activation notification. In relation to the questions raised by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev whether the guarantee constitutes an increase in the public debt and what is guaranteed an absolute amount as a framework of responsibility or a loan given to another country, together with principal and interest, Ms. Karaivanova explained that no commitment is made as absolute value, but if the guarantee is activated if necessary, it will be for the amount that is due and should be taken over and distributed among all Member States, which should provide the resources of the European Investment Bank within three years. Ms. Karaivanova pointed out that no commitment is currently made in absolute value to affect the deficit, but a principled commitment that such funds will be provided. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for...... without................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman, is it necessary to read the Parties to the Agreement again for the third time?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u144	Read it and let's finish your report. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u145	"Project to ratify the guarantee agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank concerning the loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, as well as in the overseas countries and territories, and the Agreement on the administration of default between the countries which I have just read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u146	Mr. Haytov, some of the colleagues will receive a valuable lesson in geography, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u147	... and the European Investment Bank for payment and reimbursement procedures under the Guarantee Agreement on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, as well as in the overseas countries and territories, No 502-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November In accordance with Or, in summary, the Legal Committee with 10 votes for the Law gives its support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Haytov, you've been very thorough. [[Applause.]] There is now a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u149	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill of ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank concerning loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, as well as in the overseas countries and territories, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Luxembourg, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of Poland, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Latvia, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the EFTA States of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania This Decision shall At a meeting held on 25 November 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Bill. The government's motives were presented by Deputy Finance Minister Fezi Bekir. The Internal Agreement between the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council on financing with Community assistance under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2008 - 2013 lays down the funds and general rules for the 10th European Development Fund, covering the period 2008 - 2013, which is the European Union's main instrument for providing development aid to African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and overseas countries and territories. The European Investment Bank manages part of the European Development Fund funds in the form of state and state-funded medium- and long-term and long-term loans for projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries within the framework of the so-called Investment Facility, which has two sources of funding, part of the European Development Fund and the European Investment Bank's own resources. Under the Internal Agreement, the Member States of the European Union undertake to guarantee the European Investment Bank under the loan agreements concluded by the Bank to provide loans from its own funds under the Cotonou Agreement. The guarantee is limited to 75 per cent of the total amount of loans granted by the European Investment Bank under financial contracts. For this purpose, a guarantee agreement shall be concluded between the Member States and the European Investment Bank, with which Member States shall ensure the fulfilment of all financial obligations in respect of loans granted by the Bank from its own resources under the Cotonou Agreement and undertake to pay any guaranteed amount due by the debtor of the bank when the guarantee is activated. In addition, between the Member States of the European Union and the European Investment Bank, an agreement on the administration of defaults regulating payment and recovery procedures shall be concluded in accordance with the guarantees given by the Member States for the benefit of the European Investment Bank. By this agreement, guarantors empower the European Investment Bank to administer the overdue liabilities for the purpose of their effective collection. With regard to the financing of Community aid under the Multiannual Financial Framework 2014-2020, in accordance with the Cotonou Agreement in Brussels in June 2013, an updated Internal Agreement covering the XI European Development Fund was signed between the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union. The updated internal agreement retains the obligation of Member States to be guarantors of the European Investment Bank under the loan agreements concluded by the bank to provide loans from its own funds under the Cotonou Agreement during the period 2014-2020, as well as the basic parameters of the guarantee. Under the Internal Agreement, a new guarantee agreement and the administration agreement between the Member States and the European Investment Bank covering the period 2014-2020 shall be concluded. The main parameters of the guarantee are as follows: - The guarantee covers 75 per cent of the total amount of loans granted by the European Investment Bank from its own resources under financial contracts with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and overseas countries and territories. The total amount of loans will not exceed 2,5 billion. EUR for African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and EUR 100 million for overseas countries and territories. In view of this, the total amount of the guarantee that the Member States are undertaking amounts to 1,95 billion. Euros. - The share of each Member State in the total amount of the guarantee shall be determined depending on the amount of the participation and share capital of the European Investment Bank, which for Bulgaria is 0,177 per cent, and the share of Bulgaria in the total amount of the guarantee for the period 2014 - 2020 amounts to 3 million. 451,000. 500 euros. - In case the guarantee is activated, the payment shall be made no later than 3 years after the deposit by the European Investment Bank of a notification of its activation. All amounts under the guarantee shall be paid in euro. - The guarantee covers all risks to the projects financed by the European Investment Bank in the public sector. For private sector projects, the guarantee covers all political risks, with the European Investment Bank taking all commercial risks. - Garanti shall bear all costs and charges arising from the activation and execution of the guarantee up to the amount of their participation. The entry into force of the Guarantee Agreement between the Member States of the European Union and the European Investment Bank and the Agreement on the Administration of Terms of Reference for the 2014-2020 programming period will contribute to the effective and efficient implementation of commitments made by the Member States of the European Union to the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and overseas countries and territories under the Cotonou Agreement. The guarantee provided will enable the European Investment Bank, as a bank of the European Union, to finance a wide range of projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and overseas countries and territories which will contribute to the economic and social development of the countries of the region. The agreements are subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2015 proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote Draft No 502-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 November 2015. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u150	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech would be that I would propose an editorial amendment on the name of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In Bulgaria and in the Bulgarian language the official concept is the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Otherwise, by the same logic, following the local languages of the countries concerned, Ireland must be Ayre, Hungary must be Magyarosak and so on. So I propose that the Kingdom of the Netherlands be the Kingdom of the Netherlands, purely editorial, where the text exists as the term Kingdom of the Netherlands. I think this will be the right thing to do with the Bulgarian literary norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u152	Are there any lines? Corrections to international treaties, such as ratification, we are not allowed to do, so I will not allow it to be voted on. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the draft ratification with the listed number of countries in the first vote "The Act for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the repeatedly mentioned countries and the Republic of Bulgaria." Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The law was passed in the first vote. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u153	Mr. President, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure to look at the second reading of the newly adopted Law on ratification of the Guarantee Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u154	We vote on the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the National Representative Diana Yordanova. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted the offer. Please introduce us to the second vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u155	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank on the loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, as well as in the overseas countries and territories and territories and of the Agreement on the administration of pro-elections between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Denmark, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Spain, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of Croatia, the EFTA States of Croatia of Croatia, the EFTA States of Croatia, the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States and the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of Norway States of Norway States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the Republic of the Republic of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of Iceland to which are to which are to which are to be granted to be granted to the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States to the EFTA States to the EFTA States of the EFTA States to the EFTA States of the EFTA States to the EFTA States to the EFTA States to the EFTA States of the EFTA States to the EFTA States of Art. 1. Ratifying the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and the overseas countries and territories signed by the Bulgarian side on 15 September 2014. Art. 2. Ratification of the Agreement on the administration of the dues between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank for the procedures for payments and reimbursement of funds under the Guarantee Agreement on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, as well as in the overseas countries and territories signed by the Bulgarian side on 15 September 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Statements? [[Heckling]] In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal, which I had made before, does not change the contract in any way, but, on the contrary, gives the exact Bulgarian concept, does not change the content in any way. I couldn't understand why you wouldn't allow my procedural proposal? Why, what motive? I don't get it. Therefore, I propose from now on, when such contracts and documents come in, to use the Bulgarian official concepts, not names that are not part of the official Bulgarian language. I think this is right and the Bulgarian National Assembly is precisely the institution that should hold these things. Given that the content of this treaty does not change in any way, I do not see the problem of changing to the Bulgarian literary system the name of this country?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u158	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. It's another procedure in the manner of conduct. You have the floor, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You see, in the Patriotic Front there is pluralism, there are different opinions. Mr. Angelov, in the manner of holding the meeting is quite duly held.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u160	That's for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u161	This is to you, but I would like to explain to Mr. Angelov that in the manner of conducting you very correctly lead the meeting. [[Applause from GERB.]] When it comes to interstate treaties, it is not important in the conversational language of which country, how one name or another is spoken, but how the country is in international legal relations. Here we conclude an international treaty, therefore Mr. Glauchev is right. Imagine, in Turkey, they call Bulgaria Bulgaristan, only that the treaties between the two countries are between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. So he very properly led the meeting, thank him for that. Let us move on to a faster ratification of the Agreement, because if we have to read all the names again, colleagues will forget exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. [[Relations of MP Stanislav Stanilov.]] Here you go, Professor. Stanilov "in the manner of conduct." [[(Relations of MP Stanislav Stanilov to MPs on the right. To the right: Come on, come on!]] Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u163	I'd like to say something in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u164	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u165	The President of the National Assembly cannot change the language norm in the Bulgarian language. It's not a conversational language. It's a literary language. The book Bulgarian calls it the Netherlands and you qualify it as you wish. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u166	It's an international treaty!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u167	International contract, but it is a literary norm in the book Bulgarian language, not in the conversational.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u168	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u169	If you have to look from the Kingdom of Holland, what will you look for when there is no such kingdom?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u170	Thank you, too, Mr. Karakachanov. You saved me the explanations I was entitled to. I put to the vote the bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between a number of countries listed in the name of ratification. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The law on ratification of the Guarantee Agreement has been adopted. Let's move on to the next one: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM ON THE SUPPORT OF PROJECTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESSITION BANK Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 28 December 2015. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs Diana Yordanova, Vice-President of the Commission, will introduce you to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u171	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015. At a regular meeting held on 14 January 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015. The aim of the Memorandum is to provide the basis for cooperation with the European Investment Bank under the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014-2020. Following the entry into force of the Memorandum, the European Investment Bank will be able to conclude bilateral technical assistance agreements by all managing bodies and beneficiaries under the Operational Programmes 2014-2020 on the basis of a model individual agreement with the EIB attached to the Memorandum. The Memorandum summarizes the types of activities by which the EIB will provide technical assistance under the ESIS, namely: Area 1: Sectoral strategic documents and sectoral investment programmes. Region 2: Project implementation. District 3: Institutional capacity. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the draft followed a vote, which ended with the following results: with 17 votes for the resolution of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502 02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u172	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u173	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015. At its meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Administration of the Council of Ministers took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Lyubomir Stoyanov, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Central Coordination and Mr. Petar Mihailov, Senior Fellow in Project Management and Programs. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the aforementioned Memorandum of Understanding signed on 12 December 2015. This Memorandum aims to provide the basis for cooperation with the European Investment Bank under the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. The technical assistance of the EIB is intended to be used in the following three types of activities: Sectoral strategic documents and sectoral investment programmes; Project implementation and Institutional capacity. It should be borne in mind that the technical assistance provided by the EIB under the Memorandum of Understanding is financed through resources within the respective ESIS programmes in Bulgaria. The award of activities to the EIB is intended to be in accordance with art. 12, para. 1, t. 15 of the Public Procurement Act, as well as with art. 9, p. Point (b) of point (i) of Article 2 of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2016 shall apply. In addition, this Memorandum shall be terminated at the end of the period for the payment of ESIS funds within the programming period 2014-2020, which is currently scheduled to be on 31 December 2023. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 17 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015. At its meeting held on 3 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015. The meeting was attended by the Central Coordination Unit at the Council of Ministers: Mr. Alexander Memov, Head of Department, Mr. Kiril Ezekiev, State Expert and Mr. Petar Mihailov. The bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Memov. The adoption of the Memorandum aims to provide the basis for cooperation with the European Investment Bank under the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014-2020. With its entry into force, bilateral agreements with the European Investment Bank for technical assistance from all managing bodies and beneficiaries under the Operational Programmes for 2014 - 2020. The approach for the award of activities to the European Investment Bank will be implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and Directive 2002/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for EU projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank, No 502-02-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u176	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I close the debates and vote on the Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Please vote. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank was adopted in the first vote. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for subjecting the newly adopted bill to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u178	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Diana Yordanova from the parliamentary tribune for admission to the second vote of the bill, which has just been adopted in the first place. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, the second vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u179	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. A single member. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u180	Statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank was adopted in a second vote. The next item on the agenda is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will introduce you to the President of the Commission, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u181	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Implementation "Contacts between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers At its meeting held on 11 December 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V A Romania - Bulgaria" (No 502-02-39), submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015. Mrs. Maria Duzova, Director General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation took part in the meeting of the Committee, which presented the draft on behalf of the importer. The Programme for Cooperation "INTERREG V-A Romania" was approved by Decision of the European Commission of 12 February 2015. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Member States participating in the cooperation programme was signed by the Bulgarian side on 23 September 2015. The Memorandum ensures the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Cooperation Programme by defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the programme in accordance with the commitments made by our country. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u183	♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation "Agreements between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 17 December 2015, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation No 502-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015. The co-operation programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015)886 of 12 February 2015. The Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" was signed by the Bulgarian side on 23 September 2015. The Memorandum of Implementation shall ensure the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" by defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the programme, in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria. The document sets out the necessary arrangements for the successful launch and implementation of the programme throughout the programming period 2014-2020. The signed Memorandum of Implementation shall be subject to ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the draft followed a vote, which ended with the following results: With 14 votes for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding, without abstentions and abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the cooperation programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, No 502-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The People's Representative Vladimir Toshev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova Deputy Minister, as well as Ms. Maria Duzova, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation. I. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above-mentioned Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the cooperation programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 September 2015. II. The Memorandum aims to settle the necessary arrangements for the successful start-up and implementation of the programme during the programming period 2014-2020. It is approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015)886 of 12 February 2015. The institutions involved in the implementation and management of the programme are: the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Administration of Romania III. Last but not least, it should be borne in mind that the ratification of the present Memorandum ensures Bulgaria's full participation in the cooperation programme. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 17 votes to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation by the Member States participating in the cooperation programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, No 502-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u186	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, No 502-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to vote and, at second reading, the newly adopted Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u188	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the parliamentary tribune for admission to a second vote on the bill which we adopted just now in the first vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. It is unanimous that the proposal to allow the bill to be passed to a second vote is adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u189	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum for the implementation of arrangements between Member States, participating in the cooperation programme INTERREG V-A Romania Bulgaria A single member. Ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 September 2015. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u190	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Co-operation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" - Bulgaria, No 502-02-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2015, in a second vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The bill was passed in a second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. The bill number is 502-02-40. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, you will be introduced by the Vice-President of the National Representative Irena Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u191	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States, and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 14 January 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ECPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for EAPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. Mrs. Maria Duzova, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation took part in the meeting of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented the draft on behalf of the importer. The Cooperation Programme was approved by Decision No C (2015) 958 of the European Commission of 12 February 2015. The Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the system of implementation, monitoring and control of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for EAPON, is drawn up in six parts detailing the functions and main structures and bodies for implementation and control, co-financing procedures, payments and allocation of responsibilities, entry into force and duration. A reference document on the liability mechanism of the European Territorial Cooperation Group for the ESPON is also attached. The draft Agreement was approved by a decision of the Council of Ministers of 2015 and was signed by the correspondent on 11 September 2015 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and on 2 October 2015 by the Minister of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure on behalf of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The Agreement ensures full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme as a member of the European Union. The signed agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes in favour, without abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ECPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a reference document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the EAPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u192	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kotseva. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the people representative Evgenia Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u193	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States, and partner countries on the cooperation programme implementation, monitoring and control system ECPON 2020, including Reference Document on the European Group's Responsibility Mechanism territorial cooperation for ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. At a regular meeting held on 4 February 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control of the ECPON 2020 cooperation programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the EAPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. The bill with an importer Council of Ministers was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova s Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme is approved by Decision No C (2015) 958 of the European Commission of 12 February 2015. The agreement was signed on 11 September 2015 by Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, and on 2 October 2015 by François Baush, Minister of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure, on behalf of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The document describes the subject and scope of the agreement as well as the definitions applied under the Agreement; the institutions involved in the implementation and management of the Programme, and their responsibilities, including the Managing Authority, the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructures, the Ministry of Finance, the General Financial Inspection of the Grand Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was followed, which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the draft budget and the abstention committee proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote draft ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States, and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ECPON 2020 cooperation programme, including a reference document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability claim for the ECPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u194	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs has the floor of the People's Representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the system on the implementation, monitoring and control of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. At its meeting held on 3 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Ms. Denitsa Nikolova Deputy Minister and Ms. Maria Duzova Director General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation. The bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova. The ratification of the Agreement is proposed between the Grand Duke of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, consisting of a pre-amble and six parts describing the subject matter and scope of the agreement, functions of main structures, institutions involved in the implementation and management of the programme. The ESPON 2020 cooperation programme was approved by the European Commission in February 2015 and is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund. It aims to support the effectiveness of the cohesion policy of the European Union and other sectoral policies and programmes financed by the ESI Funds and the Cohesion Fund. As a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 10 votes for abstention and non-voting, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ECPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a reference document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for ECPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u196	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You are welcome to brief us on the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. At a meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mrs Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mrs Maria Duzova, Director General of the Directorate General, Management of Territorial Cooperation and Public Works at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 September 2015 and the Managing Authority of the Programme on 2 October 2015. The ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme is approved by Decision No C (2015) 958 of the European Commission of 12 February 2015. The main objective of the Programme is to continue the consolidation of the European monitoring network on the territory by providing and using comparable, systematic and reliable data. During the new programming period, the Programme will operate through two priority axes: 1. Territorial evidence, transfer, monitoring, instruments implemented by the sole beneficiary 2. Technical assistance implemented by the Managing Authority of the Programme. The ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme is intended to indirectly support all eleven thematic objectives covering Europe 2020's priorities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. This Agreement shall consist of a Preamble and six parts. Part 1 describes the subject-matter and scope of the Agreement and Part 2 identifies the institutions responsible for the implementation of the Programme and their functions. The Ministry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure, the Department of Urban Planning and Development, the Department of Managing Authority, the Directorate of International Relations and the Ministry of Finance, the General Financial Inspection of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, is designated as the Managing Authority of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructures. The National Authority for Bulgaria is the Directorate General for Territorial Cooperation and Management of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Part 3 of the Agreement sets out the management and control procedures, and Part 4 "the co-financing procedures, payments, irregularities and allocation of responsibilities'. Part 5 shall constitute the Final Provisions and settle matters relating to amendments to the arrangements, the entry into force of the Agreement and its duration. A Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON is attached in Part 6. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously, with 17 votes for a vote, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ECPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a reference document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the EAPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u198	Thank you, dear Mrs. Panayotova. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, No 502-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Procedure supplied by the public representative Irena Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am also making a procedural proposal to vote at second reading the ratification bill which we have just adopted at first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u200	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Irena Kotseva. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. You are welcome to present the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's Responsibility Mechanism for the ESPON A single member. Rehabilitates the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and the partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 September 2015 and for the Managing Authority of the Programme, on 2 October 2015. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u202	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the bill which was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Irena Kotseva. Please vote on the second vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including the Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON, has also been adopted by a second vote and has become Act. The last item on the agenda for today is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING ON THE INSTITUTIONAL MEANING OF THE GENTIVITY INSTITUTION AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE DESTRUCTURY IN JUGOAST EUROPIA (DPPI SEE), AS REFERRED TO IN NOVEMBER 28, 2013 IN SARAEVO, BOSNA AND HERZEGOVINA, No 502-02-36. ) (a.k.a. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce you to Vice-President Rumen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013. in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the South East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative, signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior Krassimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Valeri Georgiev General Consultant in the Directorate of European Union and International Cooperation and Evgenia Vladimirova Expert in the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov. Mr. Tzipov pointed out that in 2000, on a proposal from the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Croatia, the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe to sub-mass III Security and Defence at the Working Table III of the Stability Pact for South East Europe was established. Currently, member states of the initiative are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Turkey. The initiative aims to support the development of an effective regional disaster preparedness strategy, as well as prevention of disaster prevention through joint efforts at international and national level in the participation of countries in the region. The main legislative document on the functioning of the readiness and prevention initiative in Southeast Europe is the Memorandum of Understanding, which is provided to the Members of the National Assembly The Memorandum was signed on 28 November 2013 during the XXVII Regional Meeting of the Initiative in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with art. 11 of the Memorandum Member States shall finance the administrative costs of the Initiative amounting to EUR 25 000 per year by no later than the end of April of the calendar year concerned. This financial commitment is a basis, according to art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Memorandum to be ratified by the National Assembly as it concerns the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in an international organisation and contains financial obligations. After the vote, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe, signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce you to Evgenia Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u205	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013. in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 4 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015. The bill, with the importer of the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov. In April 2000, on a proposal from the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Croatia, the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe (DPPI SEE) was launched to submass III Security and Defence at the Working Table III of the Stability Pact for South East Europe. Currently, member states of the initiative are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Turkey. The main legislative document on the functioning of the Initiative on preparedness and disaster prevention in Southeast Europe is the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of DPPI SEE. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 28 November 2013 during the XXVII Regional Meeting of the Initiative in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with art. 11 of the Memorandum Member States shall finance the administrative costs of the Initiative by paying annual contributions of EUR 25 000 no later than the end of April of the calendar year concerned. This circumstance requires on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Memorandum to be ratified by the National Assembly as it concerns the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in an international organization and contains financial obligations for the country. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote followed, which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the resolution of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u206	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. By the Foreign Policy Committee.. the People's Representative Plamen Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u207	♪ I can't believe on a bill of ratification The Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework of the Southeast European Disaster Prevention Initiative (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36 At a regular meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov as follows: In April 2000, on a proposal from the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Croatia, the initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in Southeast Europe (DPPI SEE) was launched at Working Table III of the Stability Pact for South East Europe. At present, member states of the Initiative are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Turkey. The initiative aims to support the development and effective functioning of a coherent regional disaster response strategy, as well as a disaster-free strategy in bringing together efforts at international and national level in the full participation of the countries of the region. The main legislative document on the functioning of the Southeast Europe disaster preparedness and prevention initiative is the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Southeast Europe disaster preparedness and prevention initiative. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 28 November 2013 during the XXVII Regional Meeting of the Initiative in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with art. 11 of the Memorandum Member States shall finance the administrative costs of the Initiative by paying annual contributions of EUR 25 000 no later than the end of April of the calendar year concerned. This circumstance requires on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Memorandum to be ratified by the National Assembly as it concerns the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in an international organization and contains financial obligations for the country. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, by 16 votes for.............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 502-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November 2015. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The bill of first voting has been adopted unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the law adopted just now ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in Southeast Europe be put to the vote at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u210	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Yavor Haytov from the parliamentary tribune. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Unanimously accepted is the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to report the law to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the South East Europe disaster preparedness and prevention initiative (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina A single member. Rehabilitates the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the South East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. "Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-11.u212	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to a second vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Southeast European Disaster Prevention Initiative (DPPI SEE), signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed on a second vote unanimously and became a law. Communications on Parliamentary Control on 12 February 2016, Friday, 11:00 p.m.: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer six questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva [[two questions]] ; Mariana Boyadjieva; Mihail Mikov, Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev; Georgi Anastasov; Mariana Boyadjieva and Cornelia Ninova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Ivan Ibrishimov and Cornelia Ninova. 4. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Dimitar Delchev and one question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 5. Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer eight questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev; Ivan Stankov; Svetla Bachvarova [[two questions]] ; Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev [[two questions]] ; Svetla Bachvarov and Dimitar Dimitrov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and two questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov; Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov. 6. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer six questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Tasko Ermenkov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov; Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov; and Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov. 7. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer four questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov; Emil Raynov and Chavdar Georgiev [[two questions]] ; and Dimitar Tanev and a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. 8. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer four questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Petar Kadiev; Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov; and Borislav Iglev. 9. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 19 questions from MPs Manol Genov [[three questions]] ; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Mihail Mikov; Yavor Haytov; Nastimir Ananiev [[two questions]] ; Mariana Boyadjieva; Georgi Kadiev; Velizar Enchev; Borislav Iglev; Dimitar Tanev; Georgi Turnovaliski; Ivan Penkov Ivanov; Filip Popov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Bojinov. 10. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Boris Stanimirov, and Hristo Gazhev. 11. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer five questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] ; Nastimir Ananiev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Boyka Marinska and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 12. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. 13. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to four questions with written answer from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, and two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov, and Atanas Merdjanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev, and Willi Lilkov and two questions with a written answer from the MP Vili Lilkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to four questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Boris Stanimirov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov and to a question with written answer from the National Representative Stefan Zhelev; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev, to a question with written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, and to a question from the National Representatives Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a request from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the MP Dimitar Delchev - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva; - a question from MP Miho Mihov to the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and Economy Minister Bozhidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The time is thirteen fifty-nine minutes and thirty-five seconds. We've run out of agendas. Tomorrow we continue with the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment of an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union on Stability and coping with the root causes and illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of the donors under Annex II of the Agreement establishing an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015. The importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
