ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[Ringing. Laughter, excitement, single applause.]] Dear Members of Parliament, I propose to your attention the following agenda of our programme for the last plenary week of this summer session, which, after the Conference of Presidents, we have specified with the representatives of all parliamentary groups: 1. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importers "Valery Simeonov and a group of MPs " First Law; Petar Slavov and a group of MPs " Second Law; Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov " Third Law Draft; Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs " Fourth Law. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. The Council of Ministers, a follow-up of yesterday's extraordinary plenary session. 3. Election of the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 15 July this year. 4. First vote on a draft anti-terrorist bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Project for a decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. Project for a decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of the Sofia Airport EAD. Importers. "Roumen Gechev and a group of MPs. 7. Projects for decisions to postpone elections for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria "three draft decisions." The first bringers are Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs from 6 July this year; the second one is Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs from 15 July this year; the third one is from Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Krasimira Kovachka, Stanislav Stanilov, Rumen Yonchev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Borislav Velikov, Mariana Todorova, Valeri Simeonov, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Tanev from 15 July this year. This is intended to be the first point for Friday 29 July this year. 8. Choice of Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 29 June this year. This will be point two for Friday, July 29th. 9. Proposal for the production of a national referendum with questions: "1." Do you support introducing regulation of the fuel market so as to ensure lower prices in petrol stations? 2. Do you support removing the restriction on one person to be able to open no more than four pharmacies in the country's territory in order to become the market more competitive and reduce prices in pharmacies? 3. Do you support that the state subsidy for financing political parties and coalitions should be completely removed? 4. Do you support reducing the number of MPs from 240 to 120? 5. Do you support the waiver of the immunity of the Members of the National Assembly? Importer is an initiative committee. This is the last third point of the program for Friday. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly - Friday, 29 July 2016. The control will begin after completion of the previous points in the Programme and will have a duration of 3 hours as per our Rules. Please vote. Vote 160 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Velizar Enchev has submitted a proposal to include a point in the Program of the meeting for this week. He wrote the following: On 12 July 2016, I submitted a draft declaration to the Forty-third National Assembly for the NATO Summit in Warsaw. At this time, the relevant committees did not rule on the Declaration and the time limits under art. 85, para. Art. 3 and Art. 85, para. 4 have expired and is therefore asking this Declaration to be submitted for consideration and voting in the weekly programme. However, the 15-day deadline for our Rules of Procedure for discussing draft declarations and decisions has not expired, as in the context of the submitted draft act on 12 July, 27 July, today is also within this 15-day period. The proposal is premature and there will be an opportunity for the next plenary session Mr. Enchev to offer us this draft declaration. There is no possibility that it will be allowed to vote today. Colleagues, reports on bills and draft decisions on the time from July 20th to July 26th this year: - A bill to amend and supplement the Religion Act. Importers: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead; - It's a public enterprise bill. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health; - A bill to amend and supplement the Religion Act. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Draft declaration by the National Assembly to end Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union and freeze its NATO membership. Importer: Velizar Enchev. It is allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; - Draft for the Ratification of Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activities of the Higher School of Administration and Management in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 22 July this year, the National Assembly was given the Resolution on the Council Recommendation on the integration of long-term unemployed people into the labour market, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council. By my letter the material was sent to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Yesterday, on 26 July 2016, the Court of Auditors submitted the updated Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016. The updated Annual Programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to all Members of the National Assembly. We're going to point one for today: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ACTS AND TAX CARDS. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on bills amending and supplementing Law on excise duties and tax warehouses: No 554-01-184 imported by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly; No 654-01-10 imported by Petar Slavov and a group of Members of the National Assembly; No 654-01-41, imported by Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov; and No 654-01-57, imported by Menda Stoyanova and Group of Members of the National Assembly At a meeting held on 21 April 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the draft amendments to the Law on excises and tax warehouses imported by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov, and Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Lyudmila Petkova, Director of the Ministry of Finance, Bozhidar Alexov, Deputy Director of the Customs Agency, representatives of CRIB, the National Wine and Wine Chamber and the National Association. On behalf of the importers, the bills were presented by Valeri Simeonov, Emil Dimitrov and Menda Stoyanova respectively. With the drafts with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs and Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, it is proposed that the total capacity of the vessels in the specialized small distillery sites be up to 1000 liters instead of up to 500 liters, as is the law in force on excises and tax warehouses, and that the provisions of the Law be repealed, which set a period for the operation of these sites from 1 July to 31 December of the year, and at the remaining time only after the written notification of the Customs Agency in 14 days prior to the implementation of the activity. With the bill of importers Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov, it is proposed to allow each household to produce at home up to 30 liters of ethyl alcohol The bill with importers Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs proposes the administration and control of the activities of the specialized small distillery sites to be carried out by the mayors of municipalities where the relevant sites are located and the Customs Agency to retain its functions regarding the illegal production of ethyl alcohol by persons without registration. It is proposed to specify the definition of a specialized small object for distillation, adding that no more than 10 specifics of pure alcohol per year is produced in the specialized small object for distillation, which is in accordance with European legislation. In order to reduce the illicit production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks, registration is proposed for persons importing, entering the territory of the country, producing, selling, providing or offering facilities and/or equipment for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks. The register is proposed to be public and to be kept in the Ministry of Economy. It is also an obligation for registered persons to submit data to the Ministry of Economy for persons to whom equipment and/or equipment for the production of ethyl alcohol, spirits and spirit drinks have been sold or provided. Following the presentation of the drafts, a discussion was held, where representatives of the Ministry of Finance expressed an opinion about the failure to support the drafts with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, and Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov and to support the bill with importers Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, and representatives of the National Association of Bulgaria expressed an opinion to support the drafts with importers Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs and Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The arguments of the Ministry of Finance for the failure to support the bills offering an increase in the capacity of the vessels up to 1000 litres in the small distillery sites are that it is clear from the data submitted by the Customs Agency for 2015 that there is no need to increase the capacity of the vessels. During the operation of the provision for the total capacity of the vessels up to 1000 litres, the latter were not used with full capacity. For 2015, 19 942 declarations were submitted from these sites, of which 6667 declarations were charged, including for the quantity of alcohol produced up to 100 litres per month 6034 declarations, and 633 declarations for the amount of alcohol over 100 litres. Analog data are also available for the first quarter of 2016, with a total of 949 of 4894 declarations issued, including up to 100 l per month for a quantity of up to 100 l and 88 declarations for a quantity of more than 100 l. In addition, these sites shall be subject to a reduced rate of excise duty in the production of ethyl alcohol, from grapes and fruits, their own production for their personal and family consumption, up to 30 litres of brandy per family per year, and according to art. Article 22 (1) of Council Directive 92/83/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and spirits is the condition for the application of the reduced rate of excise duty on ethyl alcohol not to be produced more than 10 specifics of pure alcohol per year. Upon increasing the volume of the vessels in the small specialised distillation sites, the site will be able to produce a larger quantity of 10 specific alcohol per year, which will violate the requirements of European legislation. With regard to the bill with importers Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov, the arguments for non-support are that European legislation does not allow the exemption from excise duty of ethyl alcohol, but only the application of a reduced excise rate subject to certain conditions, as is the case for small specialized establishments for distillation. In this sense, the proposal for amending the Law on excises and tax warehouses, made by the Draft Law, is contrary to European legislation, confirming which is also the judgment in Case C-115/13 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which states that by exempting from excise the private production of spirit drinks up to 50 litres for private consumption of household, Hungary infringes Union law. During the discussion, the members of the Commission agreed on the opinion to support the bill with importer Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs and not supporting the other bills. Following the discussion of the bills, a vote was held with the following results: 1. Under the bill, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: 6 votes for 2. Under the bill submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs: 6 votes for 3. Under the bill, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov: 2 votes "for", 16 votes abstentions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4. Under the bill submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs: 18 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote the bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 554-01-184, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, No 654-01-10, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs, and No 654-01-41, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov, and to adopt a first vote Draft for amendment and addition to the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government only under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u4	♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 12 May 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the above-mentioned Bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Diana Yordanova. The Bill proposes a change in the current regime of registration and control of specialized small distillery sites. The registration, declaration and payment of excise duties and administrative control are envisaged to be transferred from the Customs Agency to the mayors of the respective municipalities. The conditions and procedures for registration, respectively, are laid down for the deletion of the registration of specialized small establishments for distillation by the mayors of municipalities. The definition of a specialized small object is revised, providing for the production of not more than 10 specifics of pure alcohol per year. The aim of the proposal is to create the possibility of day-to-day control regarding the requirements for carrying out the regulated activities in these sites by local authorities, thereby increasing the collection and the amount of revenue from this activity that will enter into municipal budgets. Revenues from fines and property penalties under criminal decrees issued by the mayor of the municipality will be entered in the budget of the municipality concerned. Opinions have been received in support of the Bill by the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency and proposals have also been made to clarify individual provisions. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities disagrees with the proposed Draft, as municipalities are subject to non-existing obligations and the revenues from this activity will be insufficient to cover the costs of carrying out the obligations. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes in principle, while paying attention to the need to seek a solution to overcome the contradictions with the position of municipalities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes,............................................................................................ and 5 votes.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. And another report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, also only under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u6	♪ I can't believe under the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs On 20 April 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 27 April 2016, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Lyudmila Petkova On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Daniela Saveclieva. The bill proposes a change in the existing registration and control regime of specialized small distillation sites. A new Section IIId is hereby established.Registration of specialized small sites for distillation is established, which introduces obligations of the mayor of the municipality for registration and de-registered of the above sites. The bill provides that the excise duty payable by the owners or tenants of the specialized small distillation sites is to be paid to the municipality's account at the location of the site within the time limit for submitting the excise declaration. Cancel the text to limit the period during which the rakia are produced. A three-month period is envisaged for registration of specialized small distillery sites in the municipality, after which they are considered to have ceased registration. According to the importer, the Bill will have a direct impact on municipal budgets, relying on increased revenue. In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance supports the Draft Law in principle and considers that it will thus be achieved more effective control over the activities of persons engaged in small distillation sites, both by the competent municipality and by the Customs Agency. The Ministry of Economy considers that the introduced new regimes would have low efficiency in improving control over small producers. The adoption of the amendments would lead to an increase in the risk of increasing the grey sector in the industry, lowering control over alcohol production and endangering people's health. The mayors of municipalities are subject to obligations that are not of their competence. Loading with another registration will make business difficult. In the subsequent discussion the MPs Boris Yachev, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Martin Dimitrov expressed dissatisfaction that only one of the draft laws adopted under the same Law were examined in the committee. Representatives of the National Wine and Wine Chamber expressed concern about transferring the powers of registration, control and collection of excise duties to the mayors of municipalities due to the lack of capacity of local taxes and fees. Members of parliament Yordan Tsonev and Martin Dimitrov said they will support the bill, but will submit substantial proposals for changes. People's representative Zhelyo Boychev commented that the legislation should not serve the big producers. People's representative Georgi Kadiev identified the transfer of control powers to the mayors as a mistake because the persons who need to be checked and possibly sanctioned are the mayor's voters. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. They have the floor of the Bill importers. Anyone on behalf of the importers? There aren't any. I'm opening the debate on the four bills. Statements? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There seems to be some understanding in the Chamber on the right, but in the end we will state our position. BSP left Bulgaria will support the two bills, which bring back the possibility to small objects for distillation the volumes of the vessels to be up to 1000 liters, as well as to remove this time limit for boiling ethyl alcohol. Regarding the proposal of the gentlemen Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov, there is no way to support it, it really does not meet the requirements of the directive. Regarding the proposal of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. This proposal is made under the seemingly good intention of providing more revenue for municipalities, and it will only work effectively if it enables these small distillation sites to work genuinely and not be limited in volumes. The reasons stated in both the report and the reasons for the bill say that these are the requirements of European legislation, only that importers and those who have prepared the report miss § 6 of art. 22 of the directive, which enables Bulgaria and the Czech Republic to brew ethyl alcohol in sites producing more than 10 specific alcohols with a reduced rate of excise duty. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] I have plenty of time, Mrs. Stoyanova, so if you want, you may not listen to me. What was given in the report, and what is written in the motives, is not true. The possibility to produce alcohol in these objects is given under Directive and this is saved in these reports. If we really want to help the municipal budgets and give them an opportunity, and if that is the purpose of this change, then let us give them the opportunity to work well. Another question is how effectively the mayors will control this activity and will be able to collect excise duties. 700 thousand excise duties for 2015 from this activity of 265 municipalities, you understand that this is no income allocated to these so many municipalities. The limitation in opportunities to do business will also not improve these revenues, so it is pointless all that is offered in Mrs. Stoyanova's Bill if the old possibility of volume up to 1000 l is not returned to these vessels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. I wish on topics such as this the Bulgarian Parliament would not be divided, but all together to protect small producers against monopolies. This is about nothing more, nothing less. No right, no left in this situation, no center. Let us all vote together and understand all the small producers in Bulgaria that when parliament has to take sides, it always protects the small one because the big one has many, many mechanisms to defend himself. The two bills, the one submitted by me and Peter Slavov and the Reformation Block, the other by Valeri Simeonov and the Patriotic Front, are absolutely identical, so I call on colleagues, in this brief statement, to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I do not see the struggle between monopolists and producers. I think today we should have solved the matter of homemade brandy. That is why our proposal was such that we protected people who want to produce Bulgarian homemade brandy at home, but obviously not accepted. That is why I did not stand up and defend our proposal so zealously. In the end, if we treat the pots for boiling brandy as producers, and they should only be people doing service, right, and if we start to think that they are producers, then we will also find the big question mark on the lack of excise duty, for the smaller checks that are done, for the thousands and tens of thousands of liters of illegal ethyl alcohol that they found in Carnobat, Aitos and Sungurlare, which is currently mixed with glucose and sold to foreigners like Walker Vodka and Walker Whiskey. It's a different debate. The debate is best possible to protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens and the opportunity to preserve the traditions. And treating the cauldrons as small producers of alcohol should comply with the rest of the legislation. He's got his own liquor stores, he's got his own vintage plants, let them meet the conditions. Today, I think we should focus only on homemade brandy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u13	Second line? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, I never thought that you could be so naive and think that in parliament the majority would start to support suddenly, as of today, now, at the moment, the small, ordinary, small producer. I hope that we will all support this Law, but nevertheless the history of parliament shows that it is not always the case. Accept my line as another appeal to support what you offer, because the really big ones are big and they have enough protection. The little ones are nowhere, not even in our sights. That's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u15	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov? You won't use it. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say a few words in favour of what my colleague Turnovalyski just said. By throwing control into the municipalities, we're sweeping the problem under the carpet again. I'll tell you a story. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] in the years since 2006. ET, you are, on the territory of Sadovo municipality he is caught with 4,000 l of illegal alcohol. There is an effective verdict, then appealed, at the last instance becomes conditional. At the same address under the same name ET-it becomes LTD. Where was customs intelligence, customs capacity to find these? The last incident is a few months ago, this spring, another 4,000 liters, and now we're gonna throw the mayor's problem to the mayors. Customs still has experts, there are specialists. She can't deal with this contraband serving all inclusives on our resorts on a regular basis, let alone a mayor!? The co-worker said here, $700,000. BGN, figuratively speaking, by dividing them into 265 municipalities, what will the mayor do? Nothing! We're just throwing them another tool. Some can use it for the benefit of the municipality, collect money, others can use this tool with racketeering, election and whatever goals you want. We will absolutely not support this proposal, Mrs. Stoyanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u17	Any lines to Mr. Genov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group insists on expressing its opinion on the four bills. We will support the bills of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs and Petar Slavov and a group of MPs for the reason that we see respect for the labor of farmers, support for the initiative, respect for tradition and giving the owner the opportunity to be a real master. We think it is good not to allow legislative perversions such as 7-8 months ago received support and a majority. Today, we would not have gathered the discontent of dozens of producers who rightly wanted support for their work and their initiative. We will refrain from supporting the Bill of Stefan Kenov and Emil Dimitrov because we see in it a certain deficit of ethics. One of the lawmakers is a participant in that bill from 7-8 months ago. Opposing ideas for a few months is difficult to explain to us. We also see an opportunity to meet the reasons of the Bill in the first two laws, which is why we believe that they can be satisfied through them as well. We will not support Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's Bill and a group of MPs for several reasons. Firstly, we believe that this Bill has a number of restrictive measures that restrict the manufacturer's work to realize its product to completion. We believe that it is logical that the Bill should encourage rather than stop the producer's right to realize its product. Next, we find it inexplicable to distinguish between the approaches of importers who empower municipalities to ensure and regulate the processing of products for brandy and cooking. At the same time, it is logical to expect the consent of the municipalities concerned. It is illogical for us precisely the National Association of Municipalities through its President to object and to express his disagreement in the implementation of this Bill. For these reasons, we will abstain from support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u19	Any lines to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 139 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 136 against 1, abstention 6. The bill was passed at first reading. I put to the vote the bill submitted by Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov. We vote. They voted 139 MPs: 13 against 34, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. Last is the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses with importers Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 149 MPs: 118, against 6, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the second draft of Mr. Emil Dimitrov for one reason... [[Loud voices in GERB.]] I voted against Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's Law. I'm doing a negative vote on the two bills. Why did I vote against the second draft of Mr. Emil Dimitrov? Because it's a populist and hypocritical bill! You cannot first submit a bill to confuse a whole sector in the retail production of homemade brandy and then submit a bill that is completely incompatible with the European Directive. Why did I vote against Ms. Stoyanova's Bill? For one very simple reason, not because its bill is so bad, there are many good things in it......... the regulation of the level of municipalities. I voted because I saw no correlation between the stated objective, namely to increase revenue in municipalities. This is how the Bill is made, which will not only reduce the activity of medium and small producers of brandy, but will also eliminate them. This will be a debate between first and second readings. As a MP from the Plovdiv region, where there are most such small producers of brandy, I engage... I myself am the owner of 15 acres of vineyards, so I undertake to introduce between first and second reading such legislative changes to reflect...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u21	You should have started with a declaration of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u22	There is no conflict of interest, Madam President. I'm a vine. If the fact that you are a vine vine is a conflict of interest, then you insult an awful lot of people in the country. [[Loud voices in GERB.]] I'm a gardener, and I'm proud of it! I don't see any conflict of interest here. Between first and second readings, I will introduce such changes which fully and accurately reflect EEC Directive 9283.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u23	Procedure Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u24	Madam President, I ask for a procedure to extend the period between the first and second reading of the newly voted bills by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u25	A reverse opinion? Ms. Stoyanova, since there are three out of four bills supported by the first vote, you have a little prematurely asked for a procedural request, as your Commission should first draft a joint report, from which time the time limits for proposals for a second vote will begin. We're waiting for your report and then you can make your proposal again. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DELEGATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE JUDGE POWER On yesterday, we voted § 76 by importer, which became § 84 in the Commission's report. § 77 was reported by importer of the creation in Chapter IX of Sections Ia and Ib. Debates are open. I expect requests under § 77 by importer, which becomes § 85 in the Commission's report. I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle the proposal on this issue. 1-7 concerning para. 2, p. 8, 10 and 11 and didn't support it in the rest. We are voting partially for Mr. Haytov's proposal and a group of MPs. They voted 105 MPs: 14 against 38, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group in the part where the Commission does not support him. They voted 101 MPs: 10, against 53, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and the group of the Commission does not support it. They voted 104 MPs: 12, against 16, abstentioned 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 85 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 101 MPs: 93 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, paragraph 78 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 86. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 87. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 80, which shall become § 88: ...... 88............................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 all over the word "Junior judges and junior prosecutors" are replaced by "Junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u27	Statements on the three paragraphs? I won't. Anblock, we vote paragraphs 86, 87 and 88. They voted 104 MPs: 97, none, abstentioned 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 90. Paragraph 83? a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 83, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments shall be made: (a) point (b) is amended as follows: (c) a new item shall be created. 7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 7. contact details of two lawyers in which the person has conducted the internship to acquire legal capacity or who know the professional and moral qualities of the applicant from which the administration of the Supreme Judicial Council may request an opinion on the qualities of the applicant; (b) in point (d) (i) 8 is deleted and t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 83, which shall become § 91, and in that regard: Point 3 (b) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u29	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the unsupported proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: 13 against 5, 86 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on paragraphs 89, 90 and 91 on the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u30	Under § 84, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with Article 84. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 84, which shall become § 92: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182 are created. 4-8: The candidates who are not eligible to participate in the competition may challenge the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 3 days of the announcement of the list under para. 2 on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council. (5) Within 7 days of receipt of the appeal, the College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall rule by a decision rejecting the appeal or allowing the applicant. The decision shall be announced on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council. (6) The decision under para. 5 may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court within 7 days of its announcement. (7) The Supreme Administrative Court shall examine the appeal within 7 days in closed session and no copies thereof shall be served on the parties. The court's decision is final. (8) The appeal under para. 4 and 6 stops performance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become § 93.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u31	Statements under paragraphs 92 and 93? I won't. We're voting on the two paragraphs. Vote 95 MPs: 91, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u32	Under § 86, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: ............................................................................... 3 is amended as follows: "3." The creation of para. 6: The oral examination shall include an interview with the applicant on matters from the relevant sectors of law under para. 2, as well as on issues of professional ethics and issues of the role and independence of the judiciary, withdrawn by the applicant from a pre-published perspective. The answers to questions of professional ethics and on the role and independence of the judiciary are assessed with................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cyril Kalfin, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 86, which shall become § 94: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 184 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The written examination shall be anonymous and shall include: 1. verification of the knowledge in the legal sector chosen by the applicant by solving a case; 2. verification of the knowledge of European Union law and human rights by test....................................................................................................... 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Only applicants receiving an assessment not lower than a very good one shall be allowed to the oral exam. 2. 3. The creation of para. 6: The oral examination shall include an interview with the applicant on matters from the relevant sectors of law under para. 2 as well as on issues of the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian Magistrates on a pre-published perspective. Under paragraph 87, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: the following point is added: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185 is created a new para. 2: Only applicants who have received an assessment not lower than a good (4.00) of the oral examination on matters of law and assessment of professional ethics issues and on the role and independence of the judiciary shall be allowed to qualify. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 87, which shall become § 95: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: Only applicants who received an assessment not lower than a good one are involved in the course of the oral exam.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u33	Statements on the two reported texts? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs to amend § 86 by importer, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 8 against 7, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs to amend § 87 by importer, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 9 against 4, 80 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in paragraphs 94 and 95 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 88, which shall become § 96. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 89, which shall become § 97: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 186a the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Committees on Professional Ethics of the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall analyse the documents under art. Art. 19a, Art. 181, para. 4 t. 1, 7, 8 and 9, carry out checks under art. 37, para. 9 for the first three ranked candidates for the vacant post concerned, draw up a reasoned opinion for each candidate under art. 162, p. 3 and provide it to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. In para. The 3th sentence is first amended as follows: On the basis of the results of the classification under para. 1 and of the opinion referred to in para. 2 The committees on the attestations and contests shall submit to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council a proposal for initial appointment to the relevant judicial authorities. 3. In para. 6 the words................................................................................................. 4 and 185, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 90, which shall become § 98. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 91, which shall become § 99, as in para. The Supreme Judicial Council is replaced by the corresponding College of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u35	Are there any statements on the four reported texts? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 96, 97, 98 and 99 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u36	Under § 92, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 92, point (b) is replaced by the following: 3, the text of para. 4 of art. 189 is amended as follows: The transfer of a judge to a prosecutor's office or investigator, the prosecutor's office as judge or investigator, and the investigator's office as judge or prosecutor, as well as the passage from the system of the common courts to an administrative court or vice versa, shall be through a contest to raise, including an examination of the knowledge of the position concerned by a written examination of the context. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Philip Popov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall generally support the text but the importer and shall propose the following version of § 92, which shall become § 100: ....... 100........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words, which is held through an interview, are deleted and sentences are created second and third: The competitions for the above bodies of the judiciary are announced by a decision and are held before the competitions for the lower bodies are announced. In the event that competitions for the higher authorities do not end within three months with a decision of the College of the Supreme Judicial Council concerned, the competitions for the lower authorities shall be announced. 2. In para. 2 in front of the word 3. Alinei 3, 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: Other than the cases referred to in art. 194, para. 2 The transfer is a transfer to an equal or lower position of the judge in another court, of the prosecutor to another prosecution, and of the investigator to another investigative department. (4) The transfer of the judge to office of prosecutor or investigator, of the prosecutor to the position of judge or investigator, and of the investigator to the position of judge or prosecutor shall take place through a contest for promotion or relocation, including an examination of the knowledge of taking the position concerned by a written examination of the context. (5) The contest shall be held by five-member competition committees designated according to the competition matter. The members of the competition committee shall include one representative of the Committee on the attestations and contests of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council with the status of acting judge, prosecutor or investigator and one habilitated scholar of legal science in the relevant matter with an academic position of associate professor or professor, as well as three members with the status of acting judge, prosecutor or investigator designated as follows: 1. for the holding of a competition for the transfer of a judge to a regional court at competition matters from the general meetings of the judges of the district courts for each appeals area; the judges of the district courts in an appeal area shall hold a general meeting; 2. for holding a contest for the promotion and transfer of a judge to a district court...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. in the event of a competition for the promotion and transfer of a judge to an administrative court, by the plenary of the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court through lots of them; 4. in the event of a competition for the promotion and transfer of a judge to a court of appeal..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. in the event of a competition for the promotion and transfer of a judge to the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court on competition matter from the plenarys of the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court through lots of them; 6. for holding a contest for the transfer of prosecutors to the District Prosecutor's Office from the meetings of prosecutors in all district prosecutors for each district; 7. for holding a contest for the promotion and transfer of prosecutors to the District Prosecutor's Office from the meetings of prosecutors in all prosecutors; 8. when holding a contest for the promotion and transfer of prosecutors to the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office of Appeal from the meeting of prosecutors in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office through lots of them; 9. when holding a competition for the promotion and transfer of prosecutors to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office from the meetings of prosecutors in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office through lots of them; 10. for holding a contest for the promotion and relocation of an investigator in the district investigation department and in the National Investigation Service. (6) The members of the competition commission with the status of acting judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be elected by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council by lot from among the bodies under para. 5, points 1, 2, 6, 7 and 10. The competition committee shall elect a chairman from among its members. 4. Alinea 7 is canceled. 5. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The authorities referred to in para. 5 points 1, 2, 6, 7 and 10 propose to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council members for participants in the competition committee every three years. Participants may be offered more than once. 6. They're creating an al. 9 and 10: The members of the competition committee must have acquired the status of incompetence and have not been imposed any of the disciplinary penalties under Article in the last 5 years. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 points 3, 4, 5 or 6 with a decision in force. They must be ranked equal to or above the rank of the vacant post declared for application. Members of the Supreme Judicial Council and administrative leaders may not participate in the competition committee. (10) Participation in the competition committee shall be taken into account when preparing an attestation and determining the workload of the judge, prosecutor or investigator concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 93, which shall become § 101. Under § 94, there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev in accordance with Article 94. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 94, which shall become § 102: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 191a: Art. 191a. (1) The competition commission shall rank candidates for relocation according to the results of the latest attestations and inspections by the above-mentioned bodies of the judiciary and by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, the data of their case-law and the assessment of cases and files examined and finalised, selected by the competition commission and submitted by the candidates on the basis of which a general assessment of the professional qualities held by the candidates is made. In the case of uniform assessments, the judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be appointed with a longer experience in the relevant system of the judicial authorities and, in the case of equal experience in the relevant system of the judicial authorities, the one with a longer legal experience. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 189, para. 4 The competition committee shall check the applicant's knowledge of taking office in another body of the judiciary by means of a written examination. (3) The competition committee shall draw up a protocol for the ranking of candidates with a reasoned opinion and send the results of the ranking with all the competition documentation to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, which shall adopt a decision on the order of the ranking to fill in the seats. The decision may be appealed under the order of art. 187. "...................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u37	Colleagues, are there any statements under paragraphs 100, 101 and 102? Mr. Delchev, we're listening. [[Reply.]] Mr. Delchev has a proposal under § 92 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Exactly with respect to § 92 by importer is my statement. In fact, it is a very important paragraph because it concerns competitions for relocation and promotion within the judiciary, and somehow by accident or by accident in relation to the conduct of competitions are missed cases where a judge is moved from a criminal or civil court to an administrative court and vice versa. The case of the transfer of a judge from general to administrative courts or vice versa is a very specific case, because the matter which is dealt with in one of the courts is the administrative and the other, which are civil and criminal, has nothing to do with it. The material laws with which some judges work and the other judges work are completely different. It is not the same whether a civil judge who spent his life working with the Civil Procedure Code, with the Law on Obligations and Contracts, with the insurance laws, went to an administrative court, where it is governed by the rules of the Administrative Procedure Code and where administrative laws are observed, and where matter is quite different. In this context, I would like to recall the views of the leading parties in the Commission, the views of both the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and representatives of the various bodies of view, namely both the judiciary, that there should be a competition in the event of the transfer of judges from the civil court to the administrative court and vice versa. That is quite logical because otherwise, if the proposal made by me is not accepted, it means that the judges will move from one to the other court without experience and based solely on attestations concerning their acts which they have ruled as judge in the particular court, namely the civil court. That is, without really looking at the matter in respect of which they must be future judges, they will have to be tested, which is a difficulty for both the Commission on attestations and the Commission on relocation and which is a difficulty in general for the whole procedure. I am asking you to follow the reasonable proposals of both the representatives of the judiciary and the Minister of Justice. Although it is rejected in the Commission, let us support my proposal, thereby proving that we do not want, on any occasion, to circumvent the competition. I'd like to make an editorial proposal in my proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u39	There's no way. Editorial proposals shall be made only in a text of the Commission. There is no unsupported proposal to change.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u40	If it's accepted, it's still good to have a word...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u41	Then there will be new texts because what you have adopted must comply with what the Commission is proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u42	I still think that this will not lead to much changes, to who knows what conundrums, so my request is, colleagues, let us support this text, it is reasonable, it will prove that this National Assembly wants to observe the competition beginning and does not conceal certain courts and certain judges from going to a competition in case they want to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs for amendment to § 92 by importer, and this refers to changes in art. 189, para. 4 of the Law. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 104 MPs: 17 against 11, 76 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 100, 101 and 102 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u44	Under § 95, there is a proposal from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev in accordance with Article 95. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 95, which shall become § 103: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 192 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The competition committee ranked candidates for promotion according to the results of the last attestation and checks by the above bodies of the judiciary and by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, the data from their cases and the assessment of cases and cases examined and completed, selected by the competition commission and submitted by the candidates on the basis of which a general assessment of professional qualities held by the applicant is made. In the case of uniform assessments, the judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be appointed with a longer experience in the relevant system of the judicial authorities and, in the case of equal service in the relevant system of the judicial authorities, the one with a longer legal service. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In the cases referred to in art. 189, para. 4 The competition commission shall check the applicant's knowledge of taking office in another body of the judiciary by means of a written examination of the context. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words of the interview shall be deleted. 5. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6........................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 96, which shall become § 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 97, which shall become § 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 98, which shall become § 106. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 99, which shall become § 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 100, which shall become § 108.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u45	Colleagues, are there any speeches on the reported paragraphs 103 to 108 on the Commission report? I won't. We are voting together on these paragraphs. They voted 102 MPs: 99, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u46	Under § 101, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from MP Chetin Kazak: In § 101, a new item is created. 2: "2." In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 195 para. 2 is amended as follows: The judges, prosecutors and investigators shall not be members of election committees to produce elections for MPs, members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, president and vice president of the Republic and municipal councillors and mayors. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 101, which shall become § 109: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195, para. 3 the words "the position occupied' shall be replaced by the position borrowed prior to the election or equal to the position employed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u47	Statements under § 101? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u48	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Under § 101, I would like to make a statement, colleagues, to make it easier for you to navigate in the environment. This is this notorial text about the so-called members of the secret and informal organizations. Some media called them the Masonic text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u49	It's the next text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u50	One hundred and one by importer, which is 109 by the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u51	This one and the next one are... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u52	If I have to wait, if I'm speaking prematurely.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u53	No further reports have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u54	Okay, I'll hold. [[Noise and lines.]] Didn't we read one hundred and one? [[Heckling]] Aren't we 101?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u55	But then there are the new 195a and 195b, there talk about declarations, taking office and so on. [[Noise and lines.]] You want 101? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u56	Yeah. I think it's the right thing to say, Madam President, and perhaps you've been fooled by the fact that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u57	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u58	If you notice, after § 101, it is written that the Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 101, the whole first point mysteriously disappears from the paragraph, which to me does not at all mean support in principle of a proposal, since in fact the essence of § 101 is precisely in point. 1 and it shall further develop the existing text of art. 195, saying what membership really means in such an informal, secret or other organisation, which calls into question the independence of a magistrate in practice. To make it clear to you, colleagues, I will simply remind you of the current version of art. 195, categorically does not allow magistrates to be members of political parties, and further says:....... as well as to be members of organizations or to carry out activities that affect their independence................................................................................. It's an active text. What the importer is doing, what the Council of Ministers is proposing, is actually setting out what it means to do business and to be a member of organisations that affect their independence. And in t. 1 of an importer under § 101 very detailed have described what are those organisations having such objectives and status and so on, which are secrets and which allow the occurrence, exercise or termination of rights or obligations for members, and in a hidden way. A very appropriate example, by the way, gave one of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council by commenting on the text of a committee and said: That is the point of this text, and that is the purpose of the importer, which is justified and which I suggest you support. Madam President, in order for this to happen, I am making the following editorial proposal: in § 109 of the report, I will give it to you in writing, and the text so far is that. 2 and create a new t. 1 with the text of the importer under § 101, t. 1. That is, we are restoring what was present in the initial report and, as I said, mysteriously dropped in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u59	There's no way that's gonna happen. 1, because this is about changes in para. 3, and what you propose to put as t. 2, is for changes in para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u60	No, no. I propose, Madam President, the current text, this only sentence will become t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u61	At the moment we have the Commission's proposal for a version of.. read § 109, give a proposal for a version of § 109 on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u62	That's right. Previous text in art. 195, para. 3 the words "the position occupied" shall be replaced by "the position borrowed prior to the election or equal to the position in question." 2, and before it is created t. 1, with the following text: 1, t. Article 6 195 are done as follows...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u63	We're playing...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u64	Yeah, yeah. That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u65	I get it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u66	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u67	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear President, you quite rightly pointed out at the outset where the systematic place of such proposals is, namely the next text, which follows, and in the next § 102, which becomes § 110, clearly and explicitly stated that all magistrates, judges, prosecutors and investigators must declare to the Supreme Judicial Council within one month of taking up office activities and memberships of organizations....................................................... That is to say, in the following paragraph, magistrates undertake to declare any kind of organisation. Here is the systematic place of such an obligation. And in the previous paragraph, which you refer to, the current text is very clear and categorical. With regard to the incompatibility of the magistrates, the current text is very clear "any membership in an organisation which in any way affects impartiality, the independence of the magistrate is prohibited, unacceptable, that is to say, puts it in a position of incompatibility with the performance of the office of the magistrate. So the current text is also very clear, and there is no need for additional such long descriptions of the individualized, non-personalized non-profit organisations, and so on. From there you already know that any such word in a possible dispute will be able to hang the person concerned and justify that he is not a member of such an organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u69	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u70	Dear Mr. Kazak, you amaze me by your statement. Article 195 concerns the prohibitions relating to the so-called incompatibility. There it is explicitly stated that a magistrate cannot be a member of a political party, cannot operate under a contract of employment, perform activities in a free profession and so on. These are the so-called "incoherence" that cannot be declared. What you are talking about in the following paragraphs are the memberships permitted by the Law in the so-called exemplified organizations, which are subject to declaration. Or otherwise, something that the law forbids, if you declare it, will not be allowed. That's the point of art. 195 and that is why it is so important to specify the existing text for membership in such informal organizations, precisely because it is not working and because so far so written simply does not function. The point of this text is really to make it work and not allow such memberships. This is also the purpose of the importer by supplementing the existing paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u71	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I am in the form of a replica, but a single question: how will we actually formalise informal organizations? Just what my colleague said. It's very wonderful and interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u73	It's about the re-dereplicator. You are essentially in favour of Mr. Kazak's statement. [[Heckling]] Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u74	The line was right. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, if you had listened to me carefully, you would have seen my speech, which was divided into two parts. The first part was devoted to the fact that we propose in the next paragraph all memberships in any kind of organizations.. formal, informal, registered, unregistered to be declared to the Supreme Judicial Council. It's an obligation that belongs to all magistrates. So, as soon as he becomes a magistrate, he has to declare all memberships in all kinds of organizations, and he writes, look at the paragraph. From then on, if any of these memberships put him in a position of dependence or incompatibility, naturally, he either has to leave this organisation or give up his office as a magistrate. And that is very clear in the current text of art. 195, that is, the paragraph that we are now discussing, where it is clearly stated at the moment, that any membership of an organisation which threatens, which undermines its independence, puts it in a position of incompatibility, that is to say, unacceptable. From then on, who claims that the magistrate is a member of an organisation that puts him in a position of incompatibility, naturally, he must point that out, he must signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u75	How's he gonna prove it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u76	There are ways. Maybe he'll ask for a reprieve. For example, what you said about a similar case in Britain. It is sufficient for one of the parties to say that there is information that the judge and the prosecutor are members of the same organisation and at least to request a reprieve of that judge immediately. If there really is evidence, the Supreme Judicial Council for the establishment of incompatibility may be called upon. So the current text is also very clear, and as long as there is a desire, as long as there is clear data and evidence that a magistrate is a member of an organisation that undermines his independence or puts him in a position of incompatibility, he can signal and take measures against this magistrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u77	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Since this point is very important to me, I think it's important, let anyone who comes out to speak on this point declare whether they belong to such organizations so that they don't get any such...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u79	Mr. Velchev, as far as I am concerned, the participation is secret and this is part of the rules of procedure. It is not clear to me how the judiciary will control such memberships, even less so, as far as I know, the commitment of any person who is in such an organisation is to keep this membership secret. This text with the declaration is also the text by importer, but this is another topic. Will you declare, Mr. Dimitrov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u80	Madam President, Madam Secretary! Of course, I don't belong to any such organizations. But I want to bring you back to the heart of the debate and say this. The government and the Council of Ministers have proposed to our attention a definition that includes non-public rules or procedures to put the magistrate into incompatibility, that is, when there is a membership of an organisation that has non-public rules or procedures, it can influence the independence of the magistrates' work. We can either support this proposal and a corresponding definition, which is something new from the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u81	Tell us how we're gonna establish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u82	With a declaration, Madam President, from the magistrates. As a mystery, and it's all secret, everything eventually becomes obvious. When such charges are presented in a trial, there will be evidence of them and then it will be established who has declared what and who has not declared what. So this text of the Council of Ministers is very well refined, very well thought out, and as Mr. Velchev urged everyone to say, I will call on you all to vote on this text proposed by the Council of Ministers, which will lead to a greater independence of the judiciary itself and to the establishment of such links. The claim of some of my colleagues, including my esteemed Mrs. Tsacheva, that because masonry was a mystery and it could not be revealed, is not quite true because these declarations can be verified and subsequently after the event of various events it may be that certain magistrates, why not fellow MPs, why not fellow ministers, have such involvement, then you will see why they have not made the appropriate declaration. So, by supporting colleague Velchev and his motives, I appeal to all of you, who we want together to make judicial reform. If you have no arguments against this, if you do not believe that non-public rules or procedures are a problem, that is, if you do not believe that such membership restricts and undermines the independence of the magistrate, together and convinced to support this text of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u83	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! To tell you the truth, I was very surprised when yesterday's vote on membership checks with the former services did not have any obstruction. I found it surprising that there was no obstruction in the Legal Committee itself. This seems very strange to me, because I am used to it whenever I talk about such matters, to be attacked, but now I understand why this is so. It's no secret, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not gonna talk in person, I'm not gonna use all kinds of verbal images, I'm gonna say things as they say in normal life. It is clear to all of us here in this Chamber that the judiciary has two main sets of people who influence its activities. One crowd was the classical dependence on the services of the former communist state. The other, the new set, well, now I use a very buying terminology, is expressed in personalized and unpersonalized organizations. Simply put, it's a Masonic organization. Because the Masons' group in the justice system, along with the ex-cops' group, has one huge common crowd. And that's the big problem. That is, the baton of one addiction has been skillfully transmitted over the years of the other, the more modern, the more up-to-date, more, say, the face-to-face, the more democratic dependence. Although there are no democratic dependencies. What's the problem? The problem is not whether he joins a Masonic box or not. Masonicism is generally a noble activity, however, where there is democracy and where there is rule of law. The problem with our Freemasonry, especially what is in the justice system, is that it periodically causes big scandals. We remember the scandals from three or four years ago. At least two of those scandals were in the justice system. The problem is that our Freemasonry, like everything Bulgarian, which we have created as democracy, if you will like communism, is not the real thing. It is much closer to masonry, preached precisely by the Masonic Lodge P-2 of Lico Jelly. Not in vain in Italy.. notice, in Italy, where there is real will to fight this dependence, in 1982 special law was adopted No 17 on 25 January, which prohibits the creation of secret organizations. This, of course, is the other extreme. Such legislation and such, let us say debates, there are also in other countries, for example in England and Scotland. It is known that, among another scandal related to such influences, the English Parliament has accepted a compromise decision to declare membership. I forgot to announce that I am not a member of a Masonic Lodge, I am a member of a hunting party, but I am not a member of a Masonic Lodge.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u85	How does that depend on the judges? Is there a relationship between the hunting parties? [[Laughter]] I think there's more dependence there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u86	What's the difference? I did this thing for a reason. Madame President has so well replicated me. Dependence in hunting parties is obvious. There is no secret oath ritual. When a magistrate is called under Law, under a legally given oath to be independent, the influence of the secret organization, where he takes a secret oath, already defracts this dependence of his, makes him indecisive at certain times. Therefore very clearly, very accurately and I can say with good terminology, without insulting anyone, the Ministry of Justice has made this proposal. And I am telling you this: there is no point in limiting the ability of individuals in the judiciary to associate, to participate in organizations. We just want one thing to be clear: that this membership should not be at the expense of their independence as magistrates. That's why my opinion is categorical. I've spoken a lot long before this debate. It's not invented now. I will only remind some MPs of this National Assembly, who were MPs in 2010. Do you remember then in another change in the Law on the Judiciary, the same debate was going on and in the same way in the Law Committee this fell and in the Assembly this text did not pass? If we want to show progress, including in these parties, which represent the majority at the moment, both to the left and to the right, if we want to make progress on this subject, we must vote on what Mr. Peter Slavov proposed. That's a good offer. Otherwise, we will be remembered as a parliament by a majority of individualised and non-personalised organisations. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u87	A line to Mr. Andreev? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u88	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, am not a member of any organizations except the hunting party of the village of Vrah, for information of the colleague. [[Radio.]] Look, the debate has gone to such extremes that are not pleasing to an organ such as the National Assembly. I suggest we call off the debate and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u89	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to put an end to the debate on this paragraph. Vote 105 MPs: 90 against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. Under § 101, there is a motion withdrawn by Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs and unsupported by Mr. Chetin Kazak. I put to the vote Mr Chetin Kazak's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 117 MPs: 31, against 52, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. In § 109, the numbering of the Commission for amendment in art. 195 Mr. Slavov proposed that the text of the Commission be p. 2, and complements the proposal here, from the tribune, t. 1 to reproduce t. 1 by importer of § 101. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal to supplement the version of § 109 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 37, against 24, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Slavov. [[GERB's line.]] Now he's gonna tell us who didn't vote, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! I think there were colleagues who didn't vote, so I want a re-vote. I see that among colleagues of GERB there is a hesitation...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u91	I won't, I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u92	Some supported and some did not support. So obviously, colleagues, it is up to you to adopt this text and to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. I call on you all to support it, it is extremely important. The presence of such secret dependencies is something very scary, we all know it, not for a reason and colleague Velchev spoke. I also declare that I am not a member of such secret organizations, nor am I a member of a hunting party, if that is so important. So let us support the text of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u93	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 113 MPs: 43, against 31, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 109 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 89 against 4, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u94	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! I voted against it, because after the change in the Commission between first and second readings and the previous vote, this text is practically even pointless. It was proposed by the Council of Ministers in order not to have secret societies in the Bulgarian court. Note, not for the purpose of the Bulgarian court not to have Freemasons or not because here with Mr. Metodi Andreev I will not even agree, the Freemasons are bad, but because the highest authority in a republican democratic society cannot be exercised by people with unofficial secret dependencies. This is probably the time to say I'm not a mason, and I'm not in a hunting party. The only thing in which I am a member is Democrats for strong Bulgaria, the Alpine Club "Planinets" in Sofia. These are the only organizations. But it is not the question of what are the Bulgarian Freemasons. It's not the point that not a small part of them are just a bunch of drunk-ass security cops playing knights and dressing up in sheets. This is not a problem of the Bulgarian judiciary. A huge problem is the Bulgarian judicial system that some of these covered with sheets of coppers, we all know it very well, we have all commented on it repeatedly, made unregulated contacts with each other at the level of attorney/professor, lawyer/jury and judge/professor level and as a product of these uncontrolled contacts in Bulgaria appear an extraordinary number of non-executive judicial decisions and prosecutorial decrees. We have just refused to solve a problem that knows the whole Bulgarian society. That is why I voted against the main text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Others? Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u96	Dear colleagues, I, like Mr. Kanev, do not belong to Masonic organizations and hunting groups. The only thing I'm a member of is a political party. And nothing more! [[(Shouts from GERB: Eee!]] I want to tell you that I am extremely disappointed with what GERB has done and I am disappointed because this text came from the Council of Ministers, which is your Council of Ministers. The fact that you voted against is that you have already made some secret deal. What we did to allow judges to participate in secret societies, the theoretical possibility is there to participate both prosecutors, lawyers, criminals. Who then guarantees justice in Bulgaria? That is why I voted against the main text because the correct text was the one that came from the Council of Ministers. And so far, I do not understand the secret deal that you have made to one to propose that the Council of Ministers and GERB vote the opposite in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Is there a third negative vote? No. Let's move on. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, with § 102 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u98	According to § 102 "A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 195a is created. 3: On the declaration in accordance with para. 1 shall not be subject to membership in a professional organisation under art. 217, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 102, which shall become § 110: ........................................................... In Chapter 9, Section III is created art. 195a and 195b: Art. 195a. (1) Every Judge, Prosecutor and Investigator, Members of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall, within one month of taking up office, submit to the College of the Supreme Judicial Council a declaration of all their activities and memberships in non-profit organisations, civil society or association in a model approved by the Supreme Judicial Council. Where a change is made, a declaration adjusting the declared circumstances shall be submitted within one month of the change. (2) The Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall keep a central public register of the declarations under para. 1. Art. 195b. When finding incompatibility, the Committee on Professional Ethics shall draw a reasoned conclusion which shall be forwarded to the College of the Supreme Judicial Council concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u99	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u100	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The discussion, which began under the previous paragraph, has its extension in § 110. I think its content is satisfactory. It provides a sufficiently broad framework which requires judges, prosecutors, investigators, as well as members of the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as those of the Inspectorate to declare all their commitments to various types of organizations. I draw attention to the fact that the word "Organisations' is given separately by the "legal persons' for a non-profit purpose', which means that they must indicate their communion to organisations, including non-formal ones, which are not necessarily registered or subject to registration. Therefore, those of the Members of the National Assembly who spoke on the previous text and its rejection, I think they should not lower their requirement and expectation to the magistrates because the amendment of § 110 imposes on them this obligation. In order for there to be no hesitation, I am only making an editorial supplement, but it is explanatory, and it is not changing the content of the current text On purpose, I do not say "non-public" so that there is no ambiguity of distinction between private legal and public legal organisations. "Unknown organisations' are different types of societies that exist, but their members undertake some mutual obligation not to make these mutual commitments public and not to be clear to the wider public their existence, internal rules of activity and certain other issues that may affect their behaviour. That's why I'm waiting, Madame Minister. [[M Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva talked lively with MPs from GERB of the first bank]] I expect Mrs. Zaharieva to stand on the stand and support this interpretation, which I have expressed, because I believe it puts such a high standard on all those involved in the judiciary. To support even this little editorial supplement, so there's no ambiguity in interpretation. If the Minister of Justice does not want to be a puppet in front of whose eyes some public scenes are being played, and behind the scenes there are other dependencies, both in the court's office and in the exercise of justice, I think that this is something that cannot even be challenged and must be clearly stated. If such a proposal is not supported and no such declaration is made, it will indeed remain a serious doubt to me how this text will be applied. And I say again: the content of the text is wide enough to limit to an extreme extent at least this type of dependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You still have time. Can you repeat your proposal so that the Minister will make sense of it, as well as your colleagues? Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. If there's anything that needs to be made clear, should I take a break? [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u102	After the word "organizations", where it is said that they submit a declaration for all their activities.... [[Mister Ekaterina Zaharieva continues to talk to GERB MPs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u103	Madam Minister, for you Mr. Stoilov repeats his proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u104	... in organizations, including non-profits, and the text continues.... legal entities for non-profit purposes, civil society companies.......................................................................................................... I think this solves the matter completely, and so the National Assembly, if it wants to show that it really cares about public control over the activities of the judiciary, must accept this clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u105	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? People's representative Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I am glad that you have seen what I have pointed out during the discussion of the previous paragraph that this is the place and that this paragraph distracts all fears and solves all the problems that excite colleagues from the right and into a centre related to membership in all kinds of organizations............................ and in some way that would undermine the independence of magistrates. I would just like to point out to you that the more similar to this text that we have rejected, the additional characteristics we are trying to give to the term "organizations" and the more specifics we try to make, the more difficult it will become to prove whether or not a person is a member of such an organization; whether that organisation is such or not. As far as I know, these Masonic and other organizations are not irrelevant. They are quite obvious, even registered in the Register of non-profit organizations. As far as I know, both Templars and Freemasons are registered, which means they're not irrelevant. Therefore, with this clarification, you, instead of facilitating the application of the Law, will make it difficult, and not only will you hinder it, but will paralyze it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u107	Thank you. Are there any other lines to the MPs Yanaki Stoilov? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u108	Mr. Kazak, it is more important whether the idea is shared because, I repeat, different editorials are possible..................... whether we are going to talk about obvious and inappropriate organizations, about personalized and unpersonalized. Any term can cause some objections and fluctuations. But when we are talking about organisations, I would not like to miss out on the different types of so-called socialities, because they can formally say that they are not organized, but the creation of certain societies sometimes implies even closer links between their members in the pursuit of common objectives, which, in many cases, are not of a socially useful nature, but pursue private benefits. That's why I think the explanation is more successful. In this case, it must be clear that I am not talking about a certain type of organisation. Even in the future, organisations that have no historical connection, continuity with such societies can arise. They can be formed on a different point of view, religious, ethnic, political, ideological, economic and whatever else, but it will not be clear what this soldering relationship is. We must set a limit between the activities of the judiciary, as the material and procedural laws define it, and those influences which have an unpublic nature. It has already been said that they can be among magistrates, can be between magistrates and lawyers, between politicians and magistrates, between different economic groups and those who make decisions. So their nature can be different. For me it is important to clearly state the will this type of dependence to be severely limited. The fact is that in Bulgarian justice in recent years they have really had a significant impact, mainly in solving issues of great public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For the next speech there is the word the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I make the statement, I would like to state that according to art. 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have no conflict of interest. I am only a member of the Political Party National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria. In addition, in early childhood I was subjected to canonical baptism in the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, i.e. I am an Orthodox Christian. I am neither a member of a Masonic Lodge, nor a Ku Klux Klan, nor Moon's sect, and any other such secret and obvious societies. Honourable Members, the text which was rejected by importer in art. 195, para. 1 was extremely important. After all, it is clear to many that there are still secret societies and not all have the noble purpose of doing something useful for the society concerned. Clearly, many of these secret societies through secret signs and correspondence do their evil deeds. I wouldn't be calling them names because I'm not so competent to know which organization has what name. To make sense of the text of art. 195a, al. 1 I support purely ideologically the proposal of my colleague Yanaki Stoilov, but it seems to me that it is not legally valid, since there is no definition of an unspoken version of the proposal from now on will follow a vicious interpretation if your proposal is accepted, we offer legal pό a valid version. Dear Mr. Chairman, before the word "organizations" should be added the words "personalised or non-personalised" organizations, legal entities and so on. I repeat, "Personalised or non-personalised" to be added before the word "organizations." That's how we cover the entire list... [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] However, unpersonalized individuals know that they have a more interesting status, and if I have to explain now what secret organizations are... For example, Mrs. Tsacheva told you very well earlier, according to their statutes, they have a duty not to reveal the secrets. That is, if you have ever created such a non-profit entity, you must first understand what its accountability is. One of the mandatory props of accountability of these organizations is keeping a book with members. However, when you look at the books of these organizations, you will see that only the officially registered board of directors, which is usually of three people. There are other interesting forms that you are not paying attention to right now. Non-profit legal entities may be registered both in private and in public benefit. The information of those for private benefit shall not be published in the official register of the Ministry of Justice. I mean, you wouldn't know anything about them at all unless you deliberately went to the court's archives to file the case on which they were registered, the statutes and so on. There is something more interesting that you also miss, colleague Stoilov, that these organizations also have the right to develop business. No one prohibits non-profit legal entities, even though it is said that they should develop business and commercial activities. Nobody! They get their BULSTAT and so on everything, like a company. But there's another form. I say the non-personalized organizations because certain organisations can enter into a contract under art. 235, if I'm not mistaken, or 255, these are the so-called SPAs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please support our proposal because it fills this gap in art. 195a. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Bayraktarov, I have noticed that you have a tendency to go into details and thus risk, instead of solving the matter in substance, arguing on terminology. I do not claim exactly which term to choose, but it must be clear whether there is the will to resolve this issue. So my line is now and in other cases not to be petty in phraseology to give the impression that there is some problem in substance, at least among those who want to solve it, because your terminology also tolerates objections. I wouldn't go into this discussion if you didn't challenge it and now give me some legal references. When talking about personalised and non-personalised organisations, you should know that the legal entity itself has already been designated a legal person. Another question is whether or not this legal person has a membership. But that's not the point. You say that associations that are registered for private benefit will not know what they are. Well, the text does not make such a distinction as to whether a magistrate is a member of a public or private benefit association, he must declare his participation. The fact that the association concerned is not in the public register of the Ministry is a separate problem, but it will declare its personal participation in such an association for private benefit under the special law and not the general provisions concerning non-profit entities. Therefore, I do not want to enter into a discussion that becomes strictly professional, but to make it clear what problem there is and how best it can be solved. Whether with one term or with the other, it is true that we use concepts that have not found widespread citizenship in the legal system simply because these are new phenomena and there is no way to extract a ready concept. I am ready if the minister, the majority, propose a statement of opinion by supporting what I say, some other or my own, to resolve the issue without much more discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov. After him there is the people representative Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Stoilov, you are a respected lawyer and, I suppose, perhaps the national representative with legislative activity with the longest experience in this National Assembly. I guess I'm not sure that there's nothing wrong with it. However, it is very clear to you that the lack of a definition of the term "unknown" already leads to some, I suppose, extremely vicious follow-up. That's why I said: I accept your idea because I am convinced that it is the same as I think it is. But look, I'm going to give you an example to make it clear to my colleagues. You know, and everyone here I suppose you've heard there's a court called Meshere. I want to ask you, do you know if this court is registered anywhere and who are its members? I don't know. It's a non-profit organization, as you call it. That's why it's not available, and, first of all, here I want to explain to you now, it's no coincidence that I started explaining the whole technology of registration to an association. It's not a coincidence! Because, honourable colleague Stoilov, the first to become obvious, first of all, the law prohibits his organizations if you do not know. That's one thing. It's a legal act. Secondly, the first to become evident under an organization are the founders who present a founding list. However, when an organization is created with noble goals, usually the founders are from 50 up as a number of souls. This is exactly what I was explaining to you that these organizations, which are unclean thoughts, usually see that the founders are only three and the same three, which are obvious, they are also members of the governing body. Once again, we agree with you, but I think the purely legal proposal is personalized or unpersonalized companies. Because for them there is at least a definition in the Bulgarian legislation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. To speak the word has the popular representative Yavor Haytov. As he moves, honourable Members, I am pleased to announce that our guests in the National Assembly are a group of Lovech districts. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Haytov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many and long talked about how to declare, how to appear and be present in the declarations of membership of magistrates. I have allowed myself, together with a group of MPs, to make a proposal stating explicitly what should not be declared. That's al. 3 of art. 195a, which sounds like this: 1 shall not be subject to membership in professional organisations under art. 217, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. What's this about? It is about organisations that are responsible and are only for magistrates between them. This type of membership does not give rise to any dependence. [[Noise and lines.]] There are four existing organizations: the Union of Judges in Bulgaria; the Bulgarian Judges Association; the Chamber of Investigators and the Association of Prosecutors. If these things are recorded in the manner in which they are referred to in art. 195a, and subsequently members leave or change their belongings to this word organization, this creates internal inconveniences for magistrates themselves, and very often they refuse to be a member because, once again, it is strictly formally reduced to submitting declarations, a new type of applications, a possible new type of checks. My proposal and request to you, honourable ladies and gentlemen, is that you support this text, and that word organizations between magistrates within each other are not subject to declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u117	Any lines to Mr. Haytov? Mr. Slavov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u118	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u119	Second Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u120	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Colleague Haytov, we will support you in this proposal. It solves a problem that really put professional organizations, and because their activities are public, they themselves declare their members on their websites. Here they don't really create a problem. But I would like to return you to the remaining part of my line on the big problem, and that is that we, with the vote on the previous provision, have virtually excluded the possibility of being made public and clear about addictions and membership in secret organizations. That is why I would like to use and make an editorial proposal by borrowing from the text which the Council of Ministers had proposed, namely the key, colleagues, here is the membership of organizations that have non-public rules and procedures. This is the important thing we need to take into account, and here I hope my colleagues Stoilov and Kazak will see through my words as lawyers. Colleagues, as you are paying attention, many of these Masonic lodges formally have legal registration, they are registered as non-profit legal entities, but they have secret rules that never register in the court register and which never become public. And if we say in § 209, where it is said about membership in organizations, that membership in organizations, including those with non-public rules and procedures, then we now legally cover them and they will be obliged to declare it. Of course, if they don't want to declare it, just let them not be part of the justice system and decide the fates of the people. If they want to remain members of such boxes, let them leave the system...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u121	Who are you replicating now that I'm confused?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u122	...as magistrates and from now on, they can join as many members as they want. So, Madam President, I give it to you written in § 110 in art. 195a, al. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u123	You have a statement coming up, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u124	I'm not gonna say anything to save time. I therefore use the line to make this proposal in the form of an editorial proposal, as I have already said: § 110 in art. 195a, al. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u125	Second line? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We will not support Mr. Haytov's proposal and let me tell you what this is about here in the Chamber. We shouldn't mix the two things with the participation in informal, in secrets, which should become obvious and so on. That's one side of the story, and we backed it up by the DPS, and we think it is. Every participation, every membership of magistrates, as well as of us politicians, must be declared. However, this is about declaring participation in a word organization. And don't ever lobby for this to happen with words, editorial notes and so on! It is directly and specifically about the Union of Judges in Bulgaria, who is killing himself to lie everywhere that it is a word organization of the whole entity. By entering the text of the Commission which has approved, the editorial, each magistrate will declare membership in a word organization. Then we'll see who represents who and what he belongs to. We are not opposed to membership in conditional organisations, but we are opposed to certain conditional organisations lying to society and ambassadors that represent the whole entity. We're against anyone joining a word organization, and we're against the fact that others don't know he's a member. Honorable colleagues of the Reformation bloc, do not bullshit us here with editorial texts that exclude in any way the declaration of membership of a word organization. My request and my appeal is to you, Madame Minister. They're going to declare membership in opinional organizations, co-workers, because that's the right thing to do. For magistrates and us politicians, absolutely everything must be transparent! And membership in obvious organizations, Mr. Slavov, with regulations, with everything. It's so much easier for them to declare. So there's no claim, no fraud, no addiction. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u127	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u128	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I can only thank my colleague Slavov for expressing support in this regard, but I strongly disagree with what Mr. Tsonev said. At least do not underestimate the ambassadors accredited in Bulgaria. They're serious people, highly educated, intelligent. It's very difficult for anyone, so even though the Union of Judges could have fooled them. Yes, you are! It is no accident that I shared that there are four other magistrates who are organized as professional organizations.. I missed the Association of Administrative Judges, but again I repeat that the declaration in these organizations is an obstacle to the magistrates themselves in terms of their refusal of membership after their transition to another word organization. Once again, I ask you to support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u129	Colleagues, it's 11.31. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u130	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. The word is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u131	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to support the editorial proposals made under this paragraph by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Petar Slavov, and I believe that they would contribute to solving the problem that we produced with the vote on the previous paragraph. As I have already said in the explanation of my negative vote, who decides how the midlife crisis in court or outside of court cannot be our problem. It cannot be our problem and analysis of the historical role of Freemasonry from XVII to 18th century to this day. But we cannot allow there to be an environment of secrets and uncontrolled contacts between magistrates, because this environment, once arose, replaces partially or entirely three fundamental principles of democratic justice, I would even say, of justice in the rule of law, not only in democracy. First of all, the principle of public trial. Secondly, the principle of the magistrate's inner conviction. Thirdly, the protection of public interest. And another thing that we rarely seem to realize, the principle of exclusive protection of the client's interest on the part of lawyers. In this sense, speaking of conflict of interest, I neglected to say that I am a member of the Sofia Bar Association. I believe that the declaration of membership in non-profit organizations should be mandatory for lawyers, too, because they protect themselves not in court, but they protect their client, and he should be absolutely aware of all their potential dependencies, conflicts of interest and similar indecent contacts in an impoverished environment. Here I want to ask the question: and who else does all this apply to? Everything I said, except for magistrates and defenders in the civil and criminal process, also applies to Bulgarian MPs. They also defend their interests here, not their own, but their public interest. Also on the Constitution, they are obliged to vote on the principle of internal belief and their advice, which puts in a very interesting perspective the question: why was the vote on the previous paragraph so colorful with regard to the different parliamentary groups? We can very easily jump on GERB and say that controlled voted colorfully so that it does not pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u132	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u133	I say: that would be an easy explanation, but it's probably not true. I agree with you, mate. Also, the vote of the Bulgarian Socialist Party was colorful. Is the principle of the internal conviction and the publicity in making this decision of parliament, as well as in making many decisions in the Bulgarian court? For this reason, my remaining minute will devote to a procedural proposal: to vote on this paragraph in addition to clearly, also by name and by reference to the existence or absence of a conflict of interest in the submission of each vote in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u134	Replices to Mr. Kanev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kanev, since during the discussion of this article I did not see you in the Chamber, you probably did not understand that there is support from our parliamentary group and from the Chamber to declare the membership in question. This is about the adoption of this article that there is a proposal of the National Representative Nikolai Haytov to be excluded... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u136	Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u137	Yavor Haytov. That's right, I'm thinking about the big one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u138	And he's big.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u139	He's a colleague, and he's still alive, thank God. So, Mr. Kanev, the discussion is about this. Whether or not we should accept the membership of conditional organisations to be declared because, if you here, of this tribune, said that you are a member of the Bar Association, we are also here in our declarations of conflict of interest saying absolutely everything we are a member of in NGOs and so on. We of the DPS Parliamentary Group insist that the text of the Commission on this paragraph be adopted, i.e. that membership also declared, so that it is clear which prosecutor of which word organisation is a member and how many prosecutors are in it, which judge of which organisation is a member and how many judges are in that organisation. Too often speculated on behalf of such organizations that they almost represent the entire entity. That goes for prosecutors, so let me be clear, it goes for investigators and judges. We are a legislative body and we need to create a maximum legislative opportunity for full transparency. That's what I wanted to make clear because I didn't see you in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u140	Is there a second line to Mr. Kanev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna read a quote real quick. Prior to that, I declare: I am a member of the Lawyer's College. I am a member of an informal club of the Badjaks. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I don't know if he should come in, too, because there are a lot of organizations that aren't registered, people contact each other, and at least they can't feel guilty that someone in their group, membership, a meeting is a bad person. I will read you a quote, which a failed minister told you about all of you in the National Assembly: "This is a sucker's table that overflows the plenary and on which the country's governance, legislation and the promotion of all kinds of lobbying interests depends. They are united and strong, but for the fullness of this parliamentary model of the Assembly's façade, their second principle must be recorded: Here, these people who are members of such organizations must find their place in the amendment that the Legal Committee submitted as a text and accepted. I can also say one more thing. In America, there is an expression that with a good word and a gun in your hand you can open a lot more doors than just a good word. On the occasion of membership in some organisations that do not want to be announced and oppose the text that is currently proposed, I can say so: with a bad word and a slut in hand, you cannot delete the stains that a failed minister left and which a new minister has to wipe after him, only so that a law can be accepted dignifiedly in the text that was adopted by an importer and by the Legal Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] People who belong somewhere and hold a similar tone and such attitude towards us cannot remain in the shadows, and therefore the text must be adopted as proposed in order not to have such manifestations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u142	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u143	Madam President, my speech was very strict on two concrete proposals made by Yanaki Stoilov and Petar Slavov, who supported. Regarding Mr. Yavor Haytov's proposal, it is most likely taken into account, including in the colorful replica of colleague Dimitrov. Honestly, I don't see what the problem is there. I know that many people who are close to me have complained against this form of publicity. I don't share it. I believe that there should be 100% publicity, but I do not think that the question of the publicity of membership in organisations without secret rules and without a secret nature, without rules prohibiting the disclosure of membership and so on, should be any question at all. I have not commented, including when we talk about conflict of interest, the non-governmental organizations in which I participate. In fact, I don't think there's a lot of them. It's all sitting somewhere on the court records. I declared it when I was required by law. I don't see any conflict of interest here. I would like to remind you that regarding membership in secret societies, there was a heated debate in adopting the initial text of the Judicial Reform Strategy. It was one of the conditions for the support of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, proposed by today's Ombudsman Maya Manolova, which the then majority in parliament adopted. It is surprising to me that, in today's vote, the highest percentage of votes against and abstentions comes precisely from the lines of the BSP. The slightest support was for wide publicity among Bulgarian socialists. I cannot explain this discrepancy of behavior, except perhaps with a change of the leadership of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which raised a person with very high positions in such ill-fated organizations, and a very high position in BSP, or perhaps a return of BSP to the years in which it itself was an ill-fated organization within the meaning of the then repressive legislation, which I have never approved. There shouldn't be any ill-fated political organizations in one country. Let us step on a principled basis and our general principle decision could be a complete publicity of both the conditions under which we vote, i.e. a roll-call declaration of the existence or absence of a conflict of interest, as well as a complete publicity in the work of all magistrates, lawmakers, lawyers and other figures that protect public and not personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u144	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It seems the subject is extremely favorable for rhetorical exercises by both colleagues and the audience. I will not repeat opinions that I have partially expressed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I believe that the specific norms, apart from the filling and the desire to create some impression in the audience, do not contain this charge, because much of the norms are existing in law and law. I am making an editorial proposal to the text, as approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs, after the word "organizations and membership in organizations" to add to the text, including secrets and/or informal organizations and societies. I pay particular attention to my fellow Members that this expression has been expressed by the debate in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. It is reflected in their protocol regarding the second reading of the Classified Information Act and has been adopted as a text. I repeat: after the word "organizations" to add to the list of secrets and/or informal organizations and societies. I'll allow myself to add this. By establishing a standard of publicity, it must have common action and must act in all facts and circumstances. Therefore, in the Commission, I regret to turn my head to our guests from the Union of Judges in Bulgaria, but I did not support the texts of my colleague Yavor Haytov. I believe that since everything must be public, especially when it is a word organization, all memberships must be announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u146	Any lines to Mr. Kirilov? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. To announce that Mr. Yanaki Stoilov supports this version of Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bayraktarov, she's close. You're in favour, too. Mr. Kanev also supports from place. All we have to do is hear from Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u147	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! Of course we'll support you. I use the line to point out to you that although the text is getting much better, it remains the concern that it is these organisations, which I think, my colleague Kazak and my colleague Stoilov spoke earlier, who formally have court registration, that is, they are not informal or secret, but at the same time they have secret procedures and secret internal rules, which are never made public, remain excluded outside the scope of the text you are proposing. Therefore, I suggest that you add to it, as you have formulated, including secrets and/or informal organizations and societies, put a comma and add a comma, as well as non-public rules and procedures. That is, this proposal I made earlier, if you accept to supplement yours with it, I think that then the text becomes impeccable. Thank you. [[Reply of National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u148	Is there a second line to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u149	Dear Mr. Slavov, I do not want to repeat any lines, nor cases, nor analogies that we commented on in the Legal Commission, just for the text that we did not adopt and under the previous paragraph it is unacceptable, cannot work. How will you check the publicity or non-publicity of the rules? I ironed out at the Legal Commission with an agricultural cooperative. Yes, at one point the cooperative decides to produce tomatoes, but at the other moment unpublicly decides to change the crops. First of all, how do we sanction this? Second of all, why is that what we should be in control of?! This is not the objective criterion that could lead, in my opinion, to the effect that is intended with such an additive. I'm sorry, but I will continue to maintain my objection to this expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u150	Any other MPs? Come in for a statement, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u151	Madam President, colleagues! I do not know why I have the suspicion that we are deliberately fixing ourselves here on the problem of secret societies in order to mask, in order to blind the people's representation with the real problem to which this text is devoted, the real problem of the Bulgarian magistrate, namely the illegal influences of some non-secret, and many prominent media-known organizations, including with obvious funding, although they are not very clearly acknowledged and are not very willing to declare it, which have a huge impact and will yet have a huge impact on the rule of the judiciary, namely the word organizations, especially some of them. Once we are on our way to such complete transparency, and since we are not satisfied with the clear record of the text that we should declare membership in all kinds of organisations, that we need to add references as secret societies and so on to make it perfectly clear, and I am convinced that colleagues on the right who are to be fully transparent, and I am making an editorial proposal in the text of para. 1 of art. 195a after the words "juridical persons for a non-profit purpose" to be placed comma and to be added to the list of professional organizations under art. 217, para. In order to ensure that there are no disputes as to whether or not word organizations are included in this column.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u152	They're non-profit entities. They get inside that concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u153	Well, I think the general term "organizations" includes all kinds of secrets, manifest, explicit statutes, secret regulations...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u154	That's what I thought, Mr. Kazak, but it turns out that's not exactly true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u155	Exactly. Since we're going this way, let's go this way all the way. To be specified: after the legal non-profit entities, including professional organizations under art. 217, para. This is my editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u156	The line, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u157	Madam President, honourable Members, with an apology for dragging this debate forward, I realize it is already inappropriate, but this type of nagging needs to be answered. Otherwise, a thousand times the repeated lie remains true. We do not mask anything, Mr. Kazak, but we cannot solve all the problems of the judiciary in one text of the Law. What you're talking about is actually another type of unregulated contacts other than the type we're talking about right now and they're not so related to membership in organizations. Unregulated contacts between Bulgarian justice, Bulgarian politics and Bulgarian media are a huge problem. They are a problem of both legislation and ethical codes of both media and magistrates and MPs. They should also be a problem of the Bulgarian services, should also be a problem of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and ultimately the Bulgarian Court of Justice. I understand from your statement that the Reformation bloc is dealing with this by talking about Freemasons and other not-so-important issues to protect in some way the media empire of Mr. Peevski and his personal role in the work of the Bulgarian judiciary. Don't worry! We haven't forgotten that topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u158	Second line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kazak, if I have understood you correctly, you say the following: membership of a secret organisation is much less judgmental, much more right than membership of a responsible organisation. Here you oppose sects, secret societies and say yes, they are okay, but the Union of Judges, the Association of Prosecutors are questionable organizations that are almost pursuing unclear goals. On the contrary, Mr. Kazak, and the Union of Judges and the two judges' unions, both the Association of Prosecutors and the Union of Investigators have clearly defined objectives and are clearly implemented by their members, namely the pursuit of the interests of the judges, of the judiciary and of the Prosecutors' Association respectively. In this situation, Mr. Kazak, I absolutely don't understand your proposal. I do not accept such opposition at all, and I do not accept the cover-up of the secret organizations, the concealment of the secret addictions behind a talk against certain associations, certain alliances. Something I haven't heard from you, Mr. Kazak, is a statement that many colleagues before me have made that they are not members of such secret societies and secret organizations. I am also prepared to make this declaration because I am not a member of organizations with secret statutes, secret rules and secret procedures. Are you ready to make this declaration? Last, Mr. Kazak, I would say that one thing I agree with is the debate on Masonic organizations, about membership in secret organizations, and so on is not the most important part of judicial reform. There are much more important things that are happening in this second package of judicial reform, such as strengthening judicial self-government. However, the fact is that this is the most interesting topic for the media and the most interesting topic clearly for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u160	Third line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u161	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kazak, I will allow myself to express some disagreement with what you have said, albeit nuanced, everything is important. Transparency is also important in terms of membership in the so-called secret organisations. Transparency is also important in terms of membership in conditional organisations. Mr. Radan Kanev said here that it is extremely important who has what influence, I will tell you, Mr. Kazak, that he is right! It is vital that all influences be sanctified. It is important, for example, a word organization, because I have a very long internship and good memory, a wordal Magistrate organization here is the place to tell Mr. Kanev, was created by an oligarch in defence of his own oligarchic interests. This oligarch isn't called Delyan Peevsky. And here, when the Reformation Bloc gets up to speak when they pronounce names, be so good and honest to pronounce that name, too, because it has a serious influence on these thinking organizations that he personally created for that purpose in those years. I know exactly what I'm talking about, and you know exactly what we're talking about. Not to mention names and advertising groups, oligarchs and so on. Everything must be transparent in terms of magistrates and politicians. This is what Mr. Radan Kanev and I are united today from this tribune. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u162	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the two first replicating colleagues have started:...What I have understood from Mr. Kazak's statement is... and they are beginning some arbitrary interpretations about what they have understood or what they have not understood. Dear colleagues, you don't understand anything! [[Radio.]] That's the problem. The problem with the problems is that you, by throwing dust in your eyes now with the subject of secret societies and so on, have tried and are still trying to hide the illegal influences with many obvious organizations, which, however, have secret instigators and not so obvious people who finance them. [[Radio and lines.]] I would like to remind Mr. Radan Kanev that at the time when he was very young, a leader of Democrats for a strong Bulgaria, then he was the leader of the SDS, then he became famous for a round called Olymp. Then this circle was transformed and transformed into another circle which had borrowed its title from a famous book by Karl Marx.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u164	Colleague Kazak, please with the literature more sparingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u165	This type of unlawful influence, including in the judicial system, must be made public by declaring all facts, circumstances and memberships in secret, obvious and not so obvious and secret organisations, including professional ones. Moreover, with the changes that we have adopted, which give extremely serious authority to the general meetings of the judges, to the plenarys, these clear consensus organisations will have an important role to play in the administration of the judiciary. So at least society has the right to know who I'm going to take from here, dictate decisions in the judiciary and in the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u166	Thank you. Any other MPs for a statement? Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u167	Madam President, since the debate has gone into the field of global conspiracy, I am making a procedural proposal to end the debate. So I don't get up twice, or I'm gonna state a next procedure right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u168	Don't do this because you don't know if the debate will be closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u169	Okay. Then from now on, I also state a second procedure after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u170	A reverse opinion of the proposal to end the debate? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's procedural proposal to end the debate on § 102 by importer. They voted 137 MPs: 126, against 7, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u171	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, since it is evident that voting on this text is extremely important, even more and the long and heated debate has shown the importance of this vote, I propose a roll call check procedure for all MPs to be here and to see who will vote on this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u172	You're doing this on behalf of your parliamentary group, I hope?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u173	Yes, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u174	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - here Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here We have a quorum: Altimir Adamov, Antony Trenchev, Kostadin Markov, Nikola Peychev, Ivan Mihovski, Emil Raynov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Daniela Panayotova and Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. There is a quorum. Let's move on. Colleagues, in his speech Mr. Radan Kanev made a procedure for the way of voting by proposing the vote to be roll-called, standing up from the place, calling in alphabetical order, answering with a reply with a reply from..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What membership was he supposed to announce in the vote, I couldn't record? You suggested it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u175	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u176	You're withdrawing the vote like this? Mr. Radan Kanev withdrew his proposal for a different way of voting. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 136 MPs: for 9, against 73, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the editorial proposals under § 110 in the version of the Commission for the creation of art. Art. 195a. 195b. The proposals made by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov and Mr. Bajraktarov, as well as Mr. Slavov, with one speciality, which I will announce, are regarding the inclusion and declaration of a circumstance, namely someone called it "unpersonalised" and "secret" but the colleagues united around the editorial proposal of Mr. Kirilov, which is already adopted in another bill, namely after the word "organizations" to add to the proposal of Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. They voted 143 MPs: 138, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Slavov, do you insist that after this text there be an addition? You're withdrawing him. Mr. Kazak, after the proposal so voted, do you support your proposal following the proposal of a non-profit group, to put a comma and to sign up for a written proposal, including professional organizations under art. 217, para. One-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. It's included in there because they're legal entities. You're withdrawing him? He's withdrawing it, Mr. Kazak. We are voting § 110 in the version of the Commission with the editorial supplement of Mr Kirilov, which the Chamber voted and adopted. Vote 141 MPs: 140, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am extremely pleased that after such a complex debate, we have achieved a very high result. Mrs. Zaharieva wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I deliberately waited for the debate and took the floor at the end. I want to thank you for what you just voted on. With the amendments that have been made now in this House, I also believe that the aim of the importer in the previous text is achieved, on which there have been a lot of violent debates, namely in art. 195. The fact is, this is the place to declare. The text of art. 195 concerns the incompatibility and I will read on purpose because there were a lot of things that were not quite true. In the text of art. 195 for incompatibility, i.e. 6 and currently there will be a text for banning membership of organizations, not only legal entities that affect the independence of the magistrate. With the adoption of the new text of art. 195a and the addition after the word "organizations" the proposal that Mr. Kirilov made and was supported by absolutely all parliamentary groups was actually introduced an obligation for magistrates to declare these memberships. The procedure of art. 195b, if it is demonstrated that such an organisation, a legal person or any organisation may result in activities which undermine the independence of the magistrate, it shall be justified for its removal on the text of art. 195, t. 6. I believe that after quite a lot of debate that is interesting to the media, the aim of the importer has been achieved and the text has even improved. There were few debates regarding Mr. Haytov's proposal. It was not supported by all the parliamentary groups, or perhaps only by his, but I think there are arguments in both directions. After all, if we want transparency, what prevents a professional organisation from declaring membership? On the other hand, these are the organizations under art. 217, in which judges, prosecutors and investigators are entitled to be members. I believe that there is no obstacle to declaring themselves. On the other hand, the organizations themselves must be obliged on the site to maintain the current list of their members, in art. 217. I do not believe that the failure to accept Mr. Haytov's text, which I, by the way, supported in the Committee on Legal Affairs, will lead to an infringement of their right to association. Thank you once again for this majority that has been achieved. I hope this text will be for good and for transparency, and we can think of such a text to be included in the other laws that concern the declaration of ministers, the deputy ministers, the MPs. I call on you to think of such transparency, which we have just achieved, and of the other laws which oblige us, in general, to declare such membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u178	Thank you, dear Minister. We're moving on. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov! Paragraph 103 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 103, which shall become § 111. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 104, which shall become § 112. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 105, which shall become § 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 106, which shall become § 114. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 107, which becomes § 115. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 108, which becomes § 116. But here, Mr. Chairman, I would like to make an editorial-technical clarification concerning para. 1, t. 4 letter................................................................................. In the discharge under art. 163, p. 4, actually the correct reference is to t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u180	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u181	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 109, which shall become § 117.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u182	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 103 to 109 by importer, which become paragraphs 111 to 117 by the Commission report, together with the amendment made in § 108 by importer, as presented to you by the parliamentary platform. We are voting on paragraphs 111 to 117, including the Commission report. 86 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 111 to 117, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u183	Under § 110, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 110: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A complex assessment is prepared for magistrates who have shown special professional qualities that clearly surpass those of the other magistrates. The complex assessment is motivated by giving recommendations to the attestations. (b) The present item. 3 becomes t. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 110, which becomes § 118, i.e. 3 is amended as follows: "3." The creation of para. 5. On the initiative of a Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator, or if specific needs or the need for further development of professional skills of a Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator are established in the course of the examination procedure or if, within the framework of the examination procedure, the committees of the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council develop and apply, with the participation of the respective magistrate, individual plans for his professional development, the implementation of which shall be supported by the National Institute of Justice. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 111, which shall become § 119. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 112, which shall become § 120. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 113, which shall become § 121.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u184	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 15 against 9, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 118 to 121, including on the Commission's report. Vote 91 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 8. Paragraphs 118 to 121 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u185	Under § 114, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov: In Paragraph 114, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 as regards Art. 216, in previous para. 2 (new para. 3) Finally, before the word "the investigators" the Union is deleted, a comma is placed and the jury is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 114, which shall become § 122. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 114a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 217th para. is created. 3 and In carrying out its powers under art. 30, para. 2, points 1, 3, 7, 10, 12 and under art. 30, para. 5, points 5, 6 and 7, as well as the conclusion of insurance contracts under art. 224, para. 2 respectively, the Plenum and the Colleges of the SJC require opinions from the professional organizations under art. 217, para. 1. (4) By decision of the Plenum and of the Colleges of the SJC representatives of the organizations under art. 217, para. 1 may be invited to participate in the discussion of decisions in the exercise of the powers under para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u186	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 16 against 7, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 114, which shall become § 122 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 72, none, abstention 9. Paragraph 122 of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 3 against 16, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u187	At 115 there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer proposing the following version of § 115, which shall become § 123: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 227 is amended as follows: Art. 227. (1) Judge, prosecutor or investigator may be posted if necessary for no more than 12 months with his prior written consent. In exceptional cases, it may also be posted without its consent for up to three months. It shall not be reassigned to the same judicial authority. (2) In the event that a Chamber is unable to form a case, Judges shall be seconded to examine the particular case pending its completion of the relevant instance, subject to the general rules and principle of random selection by electronic distribution. (3) Pregnant and mothers with children up to three years of age may not be posted without their prior written consent. (4) For the time during which a judge, prosecutor or investigator has been posted to carry out a post higher than his post, he shall receive the corresponding higher remuneration. (5) The body in which the magistrate is appointed shall pay the remuneration for the principal post to which he is appointed and the difference up to the amount of the higher remuneration for rank and the higher post to which he is seconded. (6) The posting of a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be carried out after assessment of the rank held for the post for which he is seconded, his professional experience and experience, assessment by the attestation and opinion of his direct administrative supervisor. (7) An order shall be issued for each secondment with grounds of professional need for the seconded judge, prosecutor or investigator. (8) In cases where the relevant law requires the continuity of the composition, the judge shall continue to participate in the cases of the court in which he works and, after the posting has been completed, the cases in the court in which he was lodged shall also be completed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 116, which shall become § 124. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 117, which shall become § 125. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 118, which shall become § 126. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 119, which shall become § 127. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 120, which shall become § 128. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 121, which shall become § 129. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 122, which shall become § 130. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 123, which shall become § 131. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 124, which shall become § 132. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 125, which shall become § 133. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 126, which shall become § 134. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 127, which shall become § 135. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 128, which shall become § 136. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 129, which shall become § 137. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 130, which shall become § 138.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u188	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the text of the Commission under § 115, which becomes Article 123, art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, decide to grant aid under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 I am making an editorial proposal for the last sentence: If it remains as proposed, it would greatly hamper the functioning of the courts, especially those small ones, where or in most cases there are no candidates to appear to the Commission to be appointed or transferred to these small courts. Either way, in art. Art. 188, Art. 189 has created a rhythm in the conduct of these competitions and here in practice with these two articles, which I quoted just now, defends the possibility not to take place in these small courts. That's what my offer is for. Let's leave the rest of the text. It is logical, but instead of the body of the judiciary, it should be the same office that is not occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u190	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! The principles laid down in the Law are not to be seconded to a vacant position. The reasons why the posting of a magistrate can be made are other.. disease, for example, or something like that, lasting inability to perform. But not in an unattended position. So I don't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u192	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, would you like to use the back? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u193	I agree with my colleague, the idea is that in these small provincial courts there will really be no candidates, or those who appear will not be able to pass the exam and there will be virtually no people there to exercise the profession. So let's not introduce this broad concept of "organ" but to remain in the same position. Because they can be posted, but in the same position, to have staff and capacity to work. That's what my offer is for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. You're keeping your offer? Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u195	In the same position, the President of the Council of
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u196	You are proposing the same position as you are, after all. Are there any other statements? No. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Filip Popov from the parliamentary tribune in para. 1 of art. 227, the last sentence, after the expression "in the same body of the judiciary" shall be replaced by the expression "in the same position." Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 13 against 40 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 115 to 130, including by importer, which are paragraphs 123 to 138, on the Commission's report. We are voting paragraphs 123 to 138 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 70, none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 123 to 138, including the Commission report, have been adopted. Paragraph 131 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u197	Paragraph 131. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 131 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u198	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 131 by importer. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. The proposal was accepted and § 131 by importer was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u199	Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov: screated § 131a: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245 is created. 3: A single person may serve as a member of staff for a period of not more than five years, irrespective of reassignment to another body of the judiciary or release and new appointment. The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraph 132. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 132 of para. 1, t. 4 of the new Art. 246a comma is added and the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 132, which shall become § 139.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u200	Speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: 12, against 7, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: for 7, against 7, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 139 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 139 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u201	Paragraph 133. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 133, which shall become § 140: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "Jr. Judge and Jr. Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "Jr. Judge," "Jr. Prosecutor," and "Jr. Investigator." (b) c. 2 after the words the jury shall be added. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: There is a training centre at the National Institute of Justice, which develops e-learning and organizes the study and analysis of practices in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u202	We are voting § 140 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 140 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u203	Paragraph 134. The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 134 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 258, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u204	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the paragraph. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to reject § 134 by importer has been accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose an extension procedure until the end of the second item of the National Assembly Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u206	We are voting for the proposed extension of today's plenary session until the vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Continue, dear Mrs. Alexandrova, with § 135.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u207	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 135, which shall become § 141. Under § 136 "A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 136 and proposes to be rejected. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 142: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 252a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: A elected member of the Management Board may be released by the represented body:. 3 is finally added on a proposal from the Minister of Justice for the representative of the Ministry of Justice. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1 the represented body shall, within one month, elect a new member of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u208	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 141 on the Commission report, the Commission's proposal to reject § 136 by importer and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 142 with its corresponding content on the report. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 141 and 142 of the Commission report have been adopted, as well as the Commission's proposal to reject § 136 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u209	Under § 137 "A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 137, which shall become § 143: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 253 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "selectable'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 after the words 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the words "proposal," the Plenum of the Plenum is added. According to § 138 the proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 138, which shall become § 144: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 254 after the words............................................................................................ 253, t. 1 - Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Philip Popov and Petar Slavov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 145: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 255 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Management." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Director of the National Institute of Justice shall be elected for a period of 5 years. It may be elected for another term following an assessment of its activities by the Management Board. The Director shall be assisted by Deputy Directors. 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word (b) c. 3 after the words..................................................................................... 164, para. 7 (b) shall be added to the Director and to the requirements for internship under art. 164, para. 5 for Deputy Director. 4. The creation of para. 6: The Deputy Directors shall be elected and released by the Management Board on a proposal from the Director for the term of office.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u210	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 143 and 144 on the Commission report, as well as the proposal to create a new § 145 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. We are voting in paragraphs 143, 144 and 145 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 143, 144 and 145 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u211	Under § 139 "A proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 139, which shall become § 146: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The National Institute of Justice's training programmes shall be adopted by the Management Board on a proposal from the Director in consultation with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. According to § 140 the proposal from the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Philip Popov and Petar Slavov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 140, which shall become § 147: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 258 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The 1 sentence second is amended as follows: During the training the candidates for junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators receive 70 percent of the basic remuneration of a junior judge, a junior prosecutor and a junior investigator at the expense of the judiciary budget through the National Institute of Justice and a third sentence is created: The institutions are provided by the budget of the judiciary by increasing the budget of the National Institute of Justice according to the specific number of candidates for junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators for the respective class. 2. In para. 2 the words "Junior judges and junior prosecutors" shall be replaced by "Junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators." 3. The creation of para. 6: At the end of the training, permanent lecturers shall prepare reports on the moral and professional qualities of art. 162, p. 3 displayed by candidates for junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators during the training. The reports shall be submitted to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council together with the assessment under para. 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 141, which shall become § 148: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 all over the words the Junior Judge and the Junior Prosecutor are replaced by the Junior Judge, the Junior Prosecutor and the Junior Investigator. 2. In para. 5 words are replaced by junior judges, junior prosecutors and junior investigators. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 142, which shall become § 149. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 143, which shall become § 150. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 144, which shall become § 151. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 145, which shall become § 152. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 146, which shall become § 153. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 147, which shall become § 154.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u212	We stop at § 148 by importer. Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting on the texts of the importer from § 139 to § 147, which are from paragraphs 146 to 154 in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u213	90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here's your speech. We're listening, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u214	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. As an importer, I had two hypotheses. It is about the judges of the entries and where their salaries and all other expenses should be. Under the current rules they were to the budget of the judiciary, but are actually appointed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u215	The text has not been reported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u216	The second hypothesis is to switch them to the budget of the judiciary. In this regard, for the precision of the editing, I propose to create a new § 154a with the following text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the That's for clarity. It's the same in art. 292 for the judges of the entries that we have made. This is mainly for clarity, to make it clear that it is from the budget of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u217	Colleagues, we have voted on the supported import text for § 147 for changes in art. 274, which becomes § 154. It shall then be § 148 for changes in art. 286a. It wasn't reported, we didn't vote. Only after that comes Mr. Emil Dimitrov's proposal, but it is under art. 80 of the Staff Regulations for changes in art. 292. Now he's offering us a new § 154 for art. 277 and, systematically, after the vote, I must put this proposal to the vote. Are there any lines to Mr. Dimitrov's statement? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 154a with the following content: In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 the words "the judiciary' shall be replaced by "the Justice Ministry's'. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u218	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 148, which shall become § 155. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 156: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 292, para. 2 the words "the judiciary' shall be replaced by "the Justice Ministry's'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 149, which shall become § 157: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 294, para. 2 the words "the activities of the judicial authorities and participate in the preparation of the acts rendered by the judicial authorities' shall be replaced by the work of the professions for which legal education is required and involved in the preparation of draft acts and documents of legal importance. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 150, which shall become § 158. Paragraph 151. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: ............................................................................... 3 "3." So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: During the internship, the intern-jurist shall not receive remuneration and the time shall not be counted as an internship unless the contract with a person under para. 2, p. 2 provides for another. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 151, which shall become § 159: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 297 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the Minister of Justice shall be added after the words......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. A new para is being created. 2: The internship for the acquisition of a legal capacity shall take place in two stages: 1. main: general knowledge of the main functions, duties and organisation of the activities of the judicial authorities with a duration of not less than two months; in each body of the judicial authority of the intern-jurist is appointed a mentor; 2. professional: in the case of a lawyer, notary, private judicial contractor, representative of another profession for which legal education is required, in an authority of the executive or in another institution designated by the ordinance under art. 297a, whose activity is related to the development of the law, the judiciary or the protection of human rights; the professional experience is of a duration of 4 months and is carried out under the supervision of a mentor; the professional experience can also be carried out in the body of the judiciary. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: During the internship, the intern-jurist shall not receive remuneration and the time shall not be counted as an internship unless the contract with a person under para. 2, p. 2 provides for another. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The internship under para. 2, p. 1 shall be reported in the attestation of the judge, prosecutor or investigator concerned. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The internship under para. 2, p. 2 shall be conducted under the supervision of a mentor with at least 5 years of experience in the job or profession concerned. The place of professional internship shall be in the district district indicated in accordance with art. 296, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 152, which shall become § 160.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u219	Statements on paragraphs 155 to 160 included? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you to put to a separate vote § 149, which becomes § 157, as I cannot support such a statement of legal importance What is meant by the legal references is not clear, so I ask for a split vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u221	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote § 157 in the version of the Commission report, which Mr Popov insists on being voted separately from the other texts reported. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have voted to § 154. We voted the new § 154a. Now it is right to vote § 155 on the Commission report. ▪ Only supported texts. Delchev's proposal has not been reported. [[Heckling]] On page 159, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which has been reported. The Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 84 MPs: 11 against 5, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote paragraphs 155, 156, 158, 159 and 160 on the report and in the Commission's numbering. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u222	Under § 153, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 153, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 in para. 3 the words "five-member committee" shall be replaced by "five-member committees." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 153, which shall become § 161. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 154, which shall become § 162. And here, Madam President, I would like to do a technical editing: in para. 3 in the last paragraph in the order of art. It is therefore appropriate to amend the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 and to amend Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in conjunction with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in conjunction with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in conjunction with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in conjunction with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 in The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 155, which shall become § 163. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 156, which shall become § 164. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 157, which becomes § 165. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 158, which becomes § 166 and proposes in para. 3, p. 2 the words....................................................................................... to...................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 159, which shall become § 167. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 160, which shall become § 168.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u223	Colleagues, speeches? Mr. Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs withdraw their proposal for amendments to § 153 by importer. I put to the vote § 161 of the Commission report § 162, which fully supports the text of the importer for § 154, with the technical clarification made by Mrs Alexandrova, in para. Art. 3, Art. 297 to read "al." It's 2 and it's not al. 1 "Instruction', § 163, 164, 165, 166, 167 and 168. We vote paragraphs 161 to 168 inclusive. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u224	Under § 161, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 161, which shall become § 169: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 312 is amended as follows: Art. 312. (1) Proposal for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings for the imposition of disciplinary measures on a Judge, Prosecutor and Investigator, Administrative Head and Deputy Head of Administration may be made by: 1. the relevant administrative manager; 2. the superior administrative manager; 3. The inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council; 4. Minister of Justice. (2) Proposal for the imposition of disciplinary punishment under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council may be made by five members of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council or by three members of the College concerned. (3) Proposal for the imposition of a penalty........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 130, para. 8, p. 4, a proposal first from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria of an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly may be made at the request of one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly. (4) Proposal for the imposition of a penalty........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 130, para. 8, p. 4, a proposal first from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria of an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council elected by judges, prosecutors or investigators may be made at the request of one fifth of the current judges, prosecutors or investigators respectively. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: A new paragraph with the following content shall be created: A new Article 312a shall be created with the following content: Art. 312a. Proposals to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council for the imposition of disciplinary punishment discharge from the office of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor under art. 139 para. 3 for serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties and for actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary, may do more than half of all Members of the National Assembly at the initiative of not less than 1/5 of the Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u225	Statements, colleagues, under § 169 and the proposal for a new paragraph, which makes Mr. Kanev? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 169 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 78 MPs: 11 against 41, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u226	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 162, which shall become § 170. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 163, which shall become § 171. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 164, which shall become § 172. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 165, which shall become § 173. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 166, which shall become § 174. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 167, which shall become § 175. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 168, which shall become § 176. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 169, which shall become § 177. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 170, which shall become § 178. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 171, which shall become § 179. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 172, which shall become § 180. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 173, which shall become § 181. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 174, which shall become § 182. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 175, which shall become § 183. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 176, which becomes § 184.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u227	Colleagues, speeches on the reported texts? They are fully in support of the version of the importer. I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 170 to 184, including on the Commission's report. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u228	Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 176a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 335 is (2) The right to take leave under the conditions of art. 159 of the Labour Code have members of the managing bodies of the organizations under art. 217, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u229	Statements? I won't. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Mr. Haytov and a group of MPs. Vote 77 MPs: 5 against 43 abstentions 29. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u230	The Commission shall support the version of the importer for 177, which shall become § 185. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 178, which shall become § 186. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 179, which shall become § 187. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 188: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 356, para. 8 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 180, which shall become § 189. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 190: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 358, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 181, which shall become § 191.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u231	Statements referred to in paragraphs 185 to 191, including none. We are voting for these paragraphs in favour of the texts of the importer in full or in the version of the Commission on supported proposals by MPs. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u232	Under § 182, a proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 182, which shall become § 192: .............................................................................. Chapter 18 is hereby established with Articles 360a and 360t: ..Chapter 18........................................................................................................ Confident statements and procedural actions in electronic form Section I General rules Art. 360a. The judicial authorities shall make supporting statements, issue acts and carry out all other procedural acts provided for in the law in electronic form. Art. 360b. (1) The judicial authorities shall use information systems approved by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council in agreement with the Minister of Justice and the Chairman of the State Agency. (2) The judicial authorities shall use information systems which shall take into account a uniform time in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance. Art. 360c. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, build and maintain a single portal for e-Justice. (2) The single e-Justice Portal shall be an information system enabling: 1. declaring the making of certification statements in electronic form; 2. carrying out procedural actions in electronic form; 3. service of messages and subpoenas; 4. access to electronic cases and public registers maintained by the judicial authorities. (3) The single portal for e-Justice shall provide free and public access to the protocols and statistics on random selection in the distribution of cases provided for in a law or other regulatory act. (4) The single e-Justice Portal may also provide access to other information and functionalities. Art. 360. The judicial authorities shall maintain websites within the single e-Justice portal. Art. 360e. The judicial authorities shall provide through their websites unobstructed, free, direct and permanent electronic access to the following information: 1. the name of the judicial authority; 2. address of the judicial authority; 3. details of correspondence, including telephone and e-mail address; 4. a telephone on which persons may receive information on the manner of carrying out procedural actions in electronic form and assistance for the necessary technical steps to be taken to do so; 5. a unique identifier of the judicial authority; 6. data on bank accounts and means of payment by electronic means of government fees, expenses and other obligations to the judicial authorities; 7. other information provided for in a regulatory act or in an act of the Supreme Judicial Council. Art. 360f. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall, in consultation with the Minister of Justice and with the Chairman of the State Agency, issue a decree setting out: 1. the requirements for the websites of the judicial authorities; 2. the technical requirements for carrying out procedural actions and certification statements in electronic form and how they are to be carried out; 3. the formats and technical requirements to be met by the electronic documents sent to and by the judicial authorities, as well as the means of submitting them by citizens and organisations; 4. the formats of the scanned documents and other electronic evidence stored in electronic cases; 5. the means of payment by electronic means of state fees, costs and other obligations to the judicial authorities; 6. the technical requirements for the user, machine and other interfaces of the information systems used by the judicial authorities; 7. the electronic addresses to which electronic statements may be sent by the judicial authorities, depending on the designated means of carrying out procedural actions and supporting statements. (2) The ordinance under para. 1 shall be published on the websites of the Supreme Judicial Council and of the Ministry of Justice and of the single portal for e-Justice. Art. 360g. (1) Statements and acts submitted to the judicial authorities in paper form, as well as all documents and information in paper form, shall be entered into the information system of the judicial authorities by removing electronic images in a form and in a way that enables them to be reproduced. (2) The documents and information submitted by electronic means received electronically or entered into the information system of the judicial authorities shall be processed and stored in such a way as to ensure the protection from errors, counterfeiting and loss. (3) The complete and accurate conformity of the electronic image taken with the original taken, as well as the electronic information entered, shall be certified by officials appointed by the administrative director of the judicial authority. The certification shall be made by signing the employee on the paper medium and the electronic images entered by signing them with an electronic signature of the employee. (4) Until proven otherwise, the electronic documents and information established under the provisions of para. 1 way are identical to the presented, respectively the electronic documents and information introduced under para. 2. (5) The documents submitted and the information carriers shall be returned to the sender immediately after they have been introduced into the system. (6) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall provide the technological and technical opportunity of the judicial authorities to carry out the actions under para. 1 and 2. Art. 360p. (1) An electronic case shall be brought in the information system of the judicial authority. (2) The electronic case shall be a set of related electronic records in the information system of the judicial authority, which shall contain all electronic documents and information created or provided by the participants in the proceedings and the judicial authorities in relation to procedural rights or supporting statements, all electronic documents and evidence under art. 360g and other data processed by the judicial authority in connection with the proceedings. (3) The bodies of the judicial authority shall ensure that the evidence for which the material medium is of legal importance and those for which it cannot, by their nature, be converted into electronic form in accordance with art. 360g. (4) The judicial authorities shall ensure that persons who are entitled to access cases, distance, continuous and free electronic access to electronic cases, as well as technologies and means of access to electronic cases in the premises where their administrations are located, are given access. The persons shall also be given access to the evidence under para. 3. (5) The judicial authorities shall ensure that electronic cases are maintained and stored in such a way as not to allow the accidental or unlawful destruction of data from them and shall not allow unauthorised access, modification or dissemination. For each electronic case information shall be kept for persons and e-mail addresses from which the case is accessible, the time for access and the actions carried out in the case in the information system of the judicial authorities. (6) The judicial authorities shall provide, through certain officials from their administrations, assistance to persons requesting access to electronic affairs. (7) All or part of the electronic case may be reproduced in the required number of documents in paper form with the importance of official copies after validation by an employee empowered by the administrative director of the relevant judicial authority. A copy fee shall be charged for reproduction. (8) At the request of persons entitled to access the case, the judicial authorities shall provide them with a non-confidential copy of the whole or part of the electronic case reproduced in paper form. A copy fee shall be charged for reproduction. (9) Fee under para. 7 and 8 is not due in the case of exemption under art. 83 of the Civil Procedure Code, as well as in other cases provided for by law. Art. 360. The organisation and procedure for keeping, storing and accessing electronic cases and the manner of storing evidence and evidence in cases as well as the internal turnover and storage of other information processed by the judicial administration shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council in consultation with the Minister of Justice. Art. 360k. The Office of the Supreme Judicial Council shall determine by rules the internal order for the use of electronic signature and electronic identification by the judicial authorities. Section II Exchange of electronic documents Art. 360L. (1) The judicial authorities shall exchange electronic cases and electronic documents automatically and electronically in interoperability and information security conditions. (2) The bodies of the judiciary shall be obliged to use uniform standards and rules laid down in the ordinance under art. 360e, para. 1 establishing technological and functional parameters which are supported by their information systems to achieve interoperability and information security. (3) The interoperability and information security requirements, including the requirements for interfaces, exchange standards, formats of transmitted electronic documents and the way of exchange, shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 360e, para. 1. Art. 360 meters. (1) The judicial authorities shall exchange automated and electronically electronic documents with persons performing public functions with bodies providing public services and with the administrative bodies under the Law on Electronic Governance. (2) The persons, organizations and administrative bodies under para. 1 are obliged to provide internal electronic administrative services to the judicial authorities. (3) The rules concerning interoperability and the secure exchange of electronic documents under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 360e, para. 1. Section III Register of the acts of the courts Art. 360n. (1) The register of the acts of the courts, hereinafter referred to as the Register, shall be an electronic database containing the acts which put an end to the proceedings before the court concerned or which are subject to an independent appeal. (2) The register shall be part of the single information system of the courts and shall be kept and kept in such a way as to ensure the integrity, accessibility and security of the information contained therein. Art. 360o. (1) Acts shall be declared in the register and other observations shall be made in the cases provided for by law. (2) Each court shall immediately announce its acts in the register. (3) They shall not be subject to a notice in the register of the acts which reveal a secret protected by law and the reasons for them and other acts determined by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. Art. 360p. In the event of a subsequent act relating to an earlier act of the same authority, the relationship between the two acts shall be reflected in the register. Art. 360p. The declaration shall be made through the consistent entry into the register of the data contained in the relevant act. Art. 360c. (1) Access to the acts declared in the register shall have the participants in the proceedings authorised by them or by law. (2) Everyone shall be entitled to free and free access to the acts declared in the register subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. Art. 360. The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Minister of Justice shall adopt a regulation on keeping, keeping and accessing the register.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u233	Statements under § 192? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 192 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u234	Proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in Option II and in Option I has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u235	Conversely: you support it in Option I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u236	Excuse me, Madam President, there's been a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u237	Right is what you're saying? So, the Commission supports Option II, and in Option I, it's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u238	Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in the systematic place in art. 292, para. 2. The Commission proposes to create a new § 193: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 361, para. 3 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u239	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u240	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! In order to comply with the Public Finance Act, we need to distinguish the financing of the judiciary, the executive in the face of the Ministry of Justice and it is necessary, of course, to reflect the proposals adopted so far under the Law. In order to comply with all these requirements, it is necessary to distinguish between where the court performers will be and from which budget they will be financed, and their difference by now. The text that currently exists is as follows: The budget of the judiciary includes all revenues from the activities of the judicial authorities, the National Institute of Justice, the costs of the maintenance of the judicial authorities, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Institute of Justice. My proposal, which was adopted, is in agreement with the relevant ministries and with the Ministry of Finance, is, of course, after the words It also means those who are there under the law. So my suggestion is to create a new § 193, where for precision the text to be in the following form: in art. 361, para. 3 after the words Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u241	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. The supported proposal in Option II for editing of art. 361, para. 3, The Commission proposes the creation of a new § 193, and now Mr. Dimitrov in the Chamber complements the Commission's version. We are voting for Mr. Dimitrov's proposal in § 193 after the words......................................................................................... [[Reply from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov.]] I'm looking at the text with a comma. [[Reply from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov.]] The text becomes the following: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 361, para. 3 after the words "excluding costs', the maintenance of the judges of the entries, the state contractors and these "suppliers' shall be added. However, in order to obtain this complete version, we need to vote on your proposal, which is an addition to the text on the Commission report, and that means that after the entry, a comma is placed and the text of the court contractors. We vote Mr. Dimitrov's supplement. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on § 193 together with the supplement that we adopted to the text proposed by the Commission in its report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u242	The proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs is created § 182a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 361, para. 3 is amended as follows: The budget of the judiciary includes all revenue from the activities of the judicial authorities, the judges of the entries, the National Institute of Justice, the Security Directorate General, the costs of the maintenance of the judicial authorities, the judges of the entries, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Institute of Justice, except for the costs which under this Law are determined under the budget of the Ministry of Justice, the relations with the central budget and other budgets and the financing of the budgetary balance. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u243	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr. Georgiev's proposal and a group not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 4 against 41, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u244	Under § 183, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 194. Under § 184, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 195: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Chief Inspector and the inspectors shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice on the basis of a competition under the Labour Code. 2. Allinea 5 is canceled. Under § 185, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph which shall become § 196.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u245	Are there any statements under § 194, 195 and 196? I won't. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u246	Proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. Under § 186, there is a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3 and 4 and the rest is withdrawn. Proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 186, the introductory sentence is inserted:. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the following amendments and additions: 1. They're creating a t. 1 and 2: "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The security activities of the judicial authorities are carried out by the Directorate-General, who is a legal person, of budgetary support, based in the city. Sofia, a secondary officer with a budget to the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. The text of § 186 to date becomes its t. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Chetin Kazak. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 186, which shall become § 197: "=====References=====External links===* * "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New York Times"* "The New World. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 3 prior to the words the Supreme Judicial Council (Highest Judicial Council) is added and the words of the protected persons under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in relation to Criminal Procedure (Criminal Procedure) are deleted. 2. In para. 4 is finally added with the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and with the Bureau of Protection of the Prosecutor General. 3. In para. 5 is finally added with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. Under § 187, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph which shall become § 198. Under § 188, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph which shall become § 199. Under § 189, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph which shall become § 200.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u247	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 82 MPs: for 6, against 54, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We vote paragraphs with numbers 197 to 200 inclusive. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u248	Under § 190, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 190. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 190, which shall become § 201: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. After art. An additional provision shall be established with § 1. If I may, Madam President, I shall make a technical amendment: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. After art. An additional provision is set up with a new § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u249	We are listening to the content of this Additional provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u250	"Additional provision' § 1. For the purposes of this law: 1. The e-mail address is identifiable through a commonly accepted standard information system for receiving electronic statements. 2. An electronic document is an electronic document within the meaning of art. 3 § 35 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows:). 3. The following are: (a) spouses or persons in actual cohabitation on a marital basis, relatives in a straight line, on a fourth-degree line, including, and by matchmaking, to a second degree including; (b) natural and legal persons with whom the judge, prosecutor or investigator is in economic or political dependence which give rise to reasonable doubts in his impartiality and objectivity. 4. It is used by a foreign object to satisfy the needs of the user or the persons under art. 175b, para. 4 which lasts more than three months in one calendar year. 5. It is a condition in which husbands do not live together and have no common household. 6. It is a voluntary cohabitation of two adults with respect to whom there is no kinship which constitutes an obstacle to marriage that has lasted for more than two years and where the persons take care of each other and of a common household. 7. sufficient data is data from which a reasonable assumption of conflict of interest can be made, a violation of the basic principles of conduct set out in the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrates, or a discrepancy between the declared circumstances and the collected information. 8. "Family members" are a spouse, the person with whom the person examined is in actual cohabitation on a marital basis and underage children. 9. The offence committed within a period of two years from the entry into force of the criminal decree or the judgment of the court imposing a penalty for the same in nature of infringement shall be repeated. 10. The Office shall carry out its work in the Prosecution Office by means of: (a) a complex revision which establishes the overall activity of a separate prosecution or of the National Investigation Service; (b) a thematic revision which establishes the work of a separate prosecutor's office in a given direction or for a given period and the overall work of a investigating department in the district attorney's office; (c) an examination which is subject to specific circumstances of administrative-management nature, an alert for disciplinary misconduct, the work of a particular prosecutor or investigator, the work of a prosecutor or investigator in a particular category of case or case, compliance with labour discipline and other specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u251	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote § 201, as it was presented to you, on the Commission report, together with the editorial amendment at the beginning, with a new § 1. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 201 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u252	A proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs has been made. Dear Mr. President, I would like to make a suggestion: to create a new § 201a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, § 1 so far becomes § 1a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u253	Any lines on the offer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova to create a new § 201a with its respective content in the Transitional and Final Provisions so far § 1a becomes § 1a. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. The proposal to create a new § 201a with its respective content has been accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u254	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, in today's discussion on the issue of the Council of Ministers, 1, in the vote on Draft Law No 554-01-184, of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, my vote is read as.................................................................................................................................................... My will is for the world and I confirm for the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u256	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to make a procedural proposal to go back to the motion for a vote submitted but postponed text of § 13. In case it is accepted, I will make an additional proposal to create a new § 3a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u257	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Introduce § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u258	The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The internship as Chief Inspector or Inspector shall be regarded as an internship under art. 225, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u259	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with its corresponding content on the Commission report, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 13. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Paragraph 13 was created.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u260	In that context, Mr President, and in view of those who have been developed in detail in the speeches, including my colleague Chetin Kazak, in order to align the status of inspectors in the Inspectorate with the status of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, I propose that § 3a be created with the following content: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 29 is created. 3: The term of office as an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be regarded as an internship under art. 225, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u261	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov to create a new § 3a with the content that he has just presented to you from the parliamentary tribune. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 3a, as presented by the parliamentary platform, has been adopted. We return to Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u262	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: screated § 190a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Government, reg. DV, No. 28 of 8 April 2016, in Paragraph 83, in para. The second sentence is created: The management and distribution of the use of property parts in the first sentence shall be carried out by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u263	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The name of the division is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 14 against 57 abstentions 21. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, if you please, § 191 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u264	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 191, which shall become § 202. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 192, which shall become § 203: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) A Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator who has been appointed in the current order and is participating in a competition for promotion or transfer or election of an administrative manager shall be subject to extraordinary attestation if a candidate has been submitted to the contest in accordance with the new order. (2) Until the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 209b attestations are carried out in the current order. Those procedures shall be completed in accordance with the procedure in which they began until the date of entry into force of the Regulation. (3) Judge, prosecutor or investigator appointed until the entry into force of this Law shall not be administrated periodically upon receipt by the new order of two consecutive positive complex assessments under art. 196, t. 3. Under § 193, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, in accordance with Article 193. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 193, which shall become § 204: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Judges, prosecutors or investigators seconded until the entry into force of this (2) Within two months of the entry into force of this Law, competitions shall be announced for the vacant posts under para. 1 for the borrowing of which no contests have been announced until its entry into force. Under § 194, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov in accordance with Article 194. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 194, which shall become § 205: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Unfinished until the entry into force of this Law disciplinary proceedings under Chapter 16 shall be dealt with in the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 195, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in § 205. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 196, which shall become § 206. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 197, which shall become § 207.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u265	Let's stop here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u266	Mr President, please, in addition to those paragraphs and votes, put to the vote the possibility of renumbering the paragraphs with a view to new and unnumbered paragraphs so that the numbering can follow the texts accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u267	Thank you. This will take him into the Final Texts. [[Reference between the President and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] I shall put to the vote paragraphs 192 to 194 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 203 to 205, including the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 203, 204 and 205 of the Commission report have been adopted. I put to the vote § 195 by importer, which, because of the fact that he has found his systematic place in § 205, which we have just adopted on the Commission report, is proposed to be rejected. I shall put to the vote a proposal from the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. We are voting on § 191 by importer, which becomes § 202 by Commission report, as well as paragraphs 196 and 197 by importer, which become paragraphs 206 and 207 by Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 202, 206 and 207 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 198, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 198: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall continue to carry out their duties until their term of office is completed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 198, which becomes § 208. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Minister of Justice appointed until its entry into force shall be re-appointed as an employment contract for an indefinite period of office of the Chief Inspector, respectively the Inspector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u269	Are there any speeches, colleagues? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev.]] You withdraw your offer, Mr. Delchev and a group. Colleagues, we are voting § 208 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u270	Under § 199, there is a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly from § 199 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 199 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u271	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u272	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 200, which shall become § 209: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. By 1 January 2017, the Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall validate the forms of the declarations under art. 175a, para. 1 as well as the model of the signal under art. 175l, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u273	Statements? I won't. We vote § 209. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The text was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u274	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 201 and proposes to be reflected in the systematic place in § 226. Where it's reflected, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u275	At the time of the entry into force of the individual texts under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u276	That is why I propose to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u277	No, he's not rejected. There is no proposal from the Commission for rejection, but only to be reflected in § 226, but you are right that you cannot stand here. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 201 by importer. Its contents will be reproduced in § 226. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u278	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 202, which shall become § 210: seven hundred and Unfinished until 1 January 2017 proceedings under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and under the Law on the publicity of property of persons holding senior state and other positions in respect of a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be completed in the current order. A proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs is created § 202a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 211: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Intern-journalists who have entered into an internship until the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 297a, perform the internship and pass the legal capacity test under the current terms and conditions. Under § 203, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 203, which shall become § 212: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The regulations governing the enforcement of the law shall be adopted or brought into conformity with that law within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) Methods under art. 28, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 50, para. 2 shall be adopted within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. (3) Until the adoption of the regulations under para. 1 or until they are brought into conformity with that law, the regulations in force shall apply in so far as they do not conflict with that law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u279	Statements under paragraphs 210, 211 and 212? I won't. We are voting on the third paragraph of the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, these texts are also supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u280	Under § 204, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 204, which shall become § 213: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Within three years of the entry into force of this Law: 1. the bodies of the judiciary may carry out the actions provided for in art. 360g, para. 1-5, upon technological and technical readiness of the relevant authority and decision of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; 2. the judicial authorities shall keep the documents submitted to them in paper form, in order determined by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; 3. the bodies of the judicial authority may make supporting statements in accordance with the provisions of the law, issue acts and carry out all other procedural acts provided for in the law in electronic form, where the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council has determined by a decision which of them may be carried out in this way and has determined that a technological opportunity has been provided for them; 4. the bodies of the judiciary may maintain websites through which they provide the possibility of carrying out procedural actions and of supporting statements in electronic form; the actions provided for in art. 360c, para. 2, p. 1-3 may be carried out through the single e-Justice Portal after a decision of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council, if the relevant functional option is provided; 5. the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Minister of Justice may provide an exchange for one or different administrative bodies, persons performing public functions and bodies providing public services by determining the starting point of the provision of the exchange with their concerted decisions; 6. The plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, shall develop a single centralized information system for the courts. (2) The single centralised information system for the prosecution shall be brought into line with this Law within three years of its entry into force. After that period, the authorities of pre-trial proceedings shall be obliged to use this system to carry out procedural actions in electronic form and to carry out supporting statements. (3) Within three years of the entry into force of this law, references to the address registration may be made by the judicial authorities in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 205, which shall become § 214: .............................................................................. (1) Until the development and commissioning of the single centralised information system for courts, the maintenance of the register of acts of courts shall be ensured by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council shall determine the acts under art. 360o, para. 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 206, which shall become § 215: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) All cases formed in paper form within three years of the entry into force of this law shall be closed in the order so far. They may not carry out procedural actions in electronic form by the parties. (2) In the case of decisions of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council on....................................................................................................... the current numbering 216................................................................................................................................................ ..§ 204, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 The judicial authority shall only conduct electronic cases. (3) Where, within three years of the entry into force of this law, a judicial authority has removed an electronic image of pending or finalised cases, the relevant authority may grant access to them for purposes only. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 207, which shall become § 216. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements by paragraphs with numbers 213 to 216 inclusive? I won't. We are voting on these paragraphs with the clarification in § 215 para. 2 the reference to § 204 to read 216. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u281	Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov: In § 208, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 b. In the case of a Member State, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the other Member States of the request. 213 PPC is amended as follows: the text so far is replaced by the words: Allinea 2 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in the previous paragraph, an appeal may be brought against the order of the prosecutor by the higher prosecutor's office before the competent court where it confirms the refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings. The order of the court is final. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 208, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 in the new para. 3 the word "service' is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 208, which shall become § 217: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Code of Criminal Procedure (prom., SG...): 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The Prosecutor of the above Prosecutor's Office may, in writing, revoke or amend the order of a prosecutor from the lower prosecutor's degree, which has not been dealt with in judicial proceedings. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The order is subject to appeal before the above prosecution. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u282	Honourable Members, Madam President, Dear Minister! We're in the finals, but I'm gonna have to ask for some attention on this important text. As you can see, we are amending the criminal procedural code and the proposal that I have made, we have already partially commented on it the other day, discussing the prosecution's report. Then colleagues from the Patriotic Front put this problem on the table. I have noted that I have tabled a similar proposal and I expect their support. Hopefully from other colleagues as well. Colleagues, this is about these so important cases where a prosecutor refuses to initiate pre-trial proceedings. Right now, the only chance the injured person has is to challenge him in front of the upstanding prosecutor. Unfortunately, there is no possibility of judicial review, and it seems to me that in this case this is extremely important and we must give this opportunity. Each one of these is my proposal to actually have the possibility of judicial review, when such an applicant has once contested before the prosecutor's office, it has confirmed the refusal in question to initiate pre-trial proceedings and then the same applicant person can refer the matter to a court. The only argument that I have actually heard somewhat against this proposal is that some colleagues were afraid of clogging up the courts. But, agree, colleagues, this cannot be an argument when it comes to justice, when it comes to justice, think about it in the context of this case of the last days with the baby how it had hit a jeep and such nonsense. There really must be judicial review of such things so that we do not go to such absurdities. So there are many other good things that we can do to ease the work of the courts and speed up the proceedings, but let us not deprive Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity to really seek justice in a court where it belongs. Madam President, subject to the possibility, if my proposal is supported, I would ask you to put it to the vote afterwards and find a systematic place in this regard. Paragraph 217, as referred to in the Commission's report, point (b) is replaced by the following: It should actually be inserted there and not al. 2 to be canceled, and to change as I have written it, to be inserted there. Thank you. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Replices? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Peter Slavov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 17 against 19, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u283	Madam President, I want a re-voting procedure, as I have a feeling that there were colleagues who failed to vote, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u284	It's a tricky feeling.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u285	Furthermore, I think that a lot of colleagues from GERB seem to fail to understand that this text is actually the text that creates an opportunity for justice initially.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u286	Let's not be offended!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u287	Namely, control of the refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings by the prosecution and judicial review. That is to say, you are voting today, honourable Members, that the notion of 'cost' should be crossed out with a thick cross. If this is your goal, really do not support it, but it is important to know that this text is really important and it is good to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u288	Thank you for the procedure, Mr. Bayraktarov. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u289	If you don't want it, it's your responsibility. Vote 76 MPs: 16 against 34, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. 90 MPs voted: 10, against 33, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 217 for amendments to the PPC in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u290	Paragraph 209. A proposal from the National Representative Yavor Haytov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 209, which shall become § 218: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 69, para. 2 the words.. investigators and junior investigators... or as investigators or junior investigators................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 210, which shall become § 219. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 211, which shall become § 220. Paragraph 212. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under art. 80, para 4, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 212, which shall become § 221: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 39 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 8 After the words the Supreme Judicial Council shall be made comma and the Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate shall be added to the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. In para. 3 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. for the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council in the exercise of their powers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 213, which shall become § 222. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 214, which shall become § 223. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under art. 80, para 4, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 224 and 225: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 t. Five and 20 are canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, including the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General, shall be replaced by the elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council. (b) point 4 is repealed. § 225. In the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 2, para. 1 t. 5 and 6 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u291	Colleagues, speeches on paragraphs 218 to 225, including the report, are there? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 41, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs 218 to 225, including in the version of the Commission, we are voting on the Commission's report and its version. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, there remains another paragraph which governs the moment of entry into force of various texts of the Bill. Before that, however, Minister Zaharieva wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be very brief. I would like to thank you for supporting the judicial reform in yesterday's and today's, because with the adoption of this amendment to the Judicial Law, we are launching deep changes in judicial reform. So far, dozens of changes have been made to this Law, but they have always been partial, not with overall vision and no coincidence 25 years later we are once again facing such a substantial amendment. The new Law responds to the request of the Bulgarian society for a fair judicial system. Today's and yesterday's support from almost all parliamentary groups and the broad agreement that has been reached gives me confidence that judicial reform will be brought to an end. I want to thank you once again for this. Thanks first of all, of course, to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u293	The ones in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u294	...of law committee deputies, because there were four court sessions going on for many hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u295	Not court-martially.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u296	I thank the Political Party GERB, from which almost everyone is in the Chamber, the reformers, who were also...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u297	They're not in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u298	They're in the gym every now and then. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u299	It's a risky start, Minister Zaharieva. You have started at risk, so more generally those who are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u300	Thank you to those in the hall. Thank you all, because of all the parliamentary groups the Law was supported, with few exceptions in it. I am convinced that today's amendments are directly related to the quality of justice because there is no quality justice without quality magistrates. We focused on a small part of the Bill, but it gives us the opportunity to enter the judiciary first of all, I hope, to the top-quality graduates of the Law and to the career growth of those who declare by conscience, work qualitatively and are led only by their conscience and by law. Thank you once again to all the parliamentary groups, especially those in the Chamber. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from GERB, RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u301	Thank you, Minister Zaharieva. Colleagues, final text to make sure we finish the judicial reform. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u302	The Commission proposes to establish § 226: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraphs: Paragraph 85 is indicated here, which must be replaced by § 86; it is § 125 to be replaced by § 126; it must be added § 202; that § 224 must be replaced by § 227 and that § 225 must be replaced by § 228, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2017; 2 para. 194 concerning art. 360o (360t) which entered into force 6 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union; Art. 3 (194) 360c, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 360g. 360z, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 360m, which entered into force three years after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u303	Colleagues, speeches? It is clear that updating the numbering of the paragraphs is necessary in view of their current arrangements in the report, as we have voted on them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u304	Yes, colleagues supported the opportunity to reconcile all references and numbering. Colleagues, I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-27.u305	That's right, that's what I meant to say, Mr. Kirilov. The last words about compliance have "Final texts" but thank you for your efforts to properly trace the numbering of the paragraphs. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 226 on the Commission report, with the correct clarification made on the current numbering of the paragraphs for the texts which correspond to a different point of entry into force. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted and has thus been adopted at second reading finally and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. We have thus implemented our decision on the duration of the plenary session until the vote on this. 2 of our weekly program. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
