ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly from 25 to 27 May 2016 including. After the Presidential Council held earlier today, the Programme looks like this: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. Importers are Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. 4. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. This is intended to be point one for tomorrow, Thursday 26 May 2016. 5. Second vote on the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Associations for Irrigation. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (CCI) 2014TS16I5C006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Annual report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activity in 2015. The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data is the importer. 10. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015. Importer is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. 11. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 including, of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 150 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 18 May to 20 May 2016: - Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the leading committee, accompanying the Committee on Legal Affairs. - An independent financial audit bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. - Report on the implementation of the budget of state social security for 2015. Importer is the National Insurance Institute. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. - A bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Legal Affairs will see it too. - A bill to supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importers are Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. - Report on the Commission's activity of public oversight of registered auditors in 2015. The Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. By letter No 652-27-1 of 20 May 2016, the Vice-President of the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Kiril Tsochev informed me that at his meeting the parliamentary group of ABB unanimously elected the National Representative of the National Philosophy Doctor Mariana Georgieva Todorova as Vice-President and Speaker of the Parliamentary Group. On 20 May 2016, the National Assembly received a Report on the results of the control carried out for the implementation of the recommendations under Audit Report No 03-00-1313 for the audit of the performance of the institution building and effectiveness of the inspection function of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council for the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012. For your information. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Last message: The updated annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly on 20 May 2016. The updated annual programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. We start with point one of the weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. With the report for the second vote of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I ask for a procedure in this Chamber to be admitted to Mr. Kiril Ananiev Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Diana Dragneva Director of the Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Manuela Milosheva and Ms. Galya Nikolova from the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities and the Directorate of Budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u3	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 128 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u4	In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Public Finance Act, No 602-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2016. The second vote is on the draft. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u5	Are there any statements on the name of the Law and § 1 by importer fully supported by the Commission? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and § 1. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u6	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words.. trigger automatic corrective mechanisms defined by the National Assembly....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. A new para is being created. 4. Any deviation from the fiscal rule under para. 2, which is equal to or exceeds 0.5 percent of gross domestic product per year or average per year. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u7	Are there any statements on the reported paragraphs 2 to 6 including? I won't. We are voting for anblock paragraphs 2 in the version of the Commission on the report, up to 6 including the rest are supported entirely by an importer. Vote 119 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u8	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov § 7 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u9	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! It is a practice in the State Budget Act not to clarify who are the addressees of the various types of subsidies and transfers, and there is also a detailed deciphering......................................................................................... This, combined with the vague legal regulation of the fiscal reserve, sets out the legal framework that allows the Council of Ministers to spend public resources in a way that I believe is unacceptable and is not a practice in established democracies. Spending money on the resources determined by Law is a common practice for ministries and agencies, which, instead of limiting the unreasonable spending of public resources, is tolerated by the continuous handing out of additional money by a decision of the Council of Ministers. According to the current Law, which we are changing today, these budgetary organisations and different institutions are obliged to respect the common costs, but can change the approved budget items. This practice in many countries of the European Union is not admissible. In established democracies, ministers simply implement the budget law adopted by the relevant parliaments. Today, instead of reviewing precisely those provisions that allow the Council of Ministers to change the budgets of the state authorities during the year, and replacing it with an approach that will limit subjective discretion, covering very often ineffective costs, leaking money, we are making a change in art. 51, para. 2 This is the proposal of the importers, namely: the requirement that these changed relationships be rejected only in cases where we have a provision of law, except, of course, the requirements of the Public Finance Act. I cannot accept or accept the motives of the importer in the face of my esteemed Deputy Minister Ananiev that this is because there are many laws that have not regulated these relationships and that should be used in these cases. I do not accept it because in these three years the relevant laws should be changed and this should be done only in exceptional cases and not throughout the year with a decision of the Council of Ministers to change these relationships, because at the beginning of this year we already have 30 such decisions of the Council of Ministers. In order not to be naked, I will give you an example. At the end of last year, when we had late-night debates on the budget, one of our many proposals was to provide funds for the budget for the reconstruction of the memorial complex in the town of Botev. Kalofer. This, of course, was rejected as a proposal. You see, another January month by decision of the Council of Ministers these funds have been allocated to the municipality of Karlovo. What, then, does the Bulgarian Parliament become? This proves that we're a rubber stamp that... we debate here long at night, many days, and ultimately we don't know what's going on. If I have a little more time, Madam President, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the Public Finance Act is not being implemented and the Council of Ministers has not yet submitted to the National Assembly to discuss the Implementation Act and a Report under the State Budget Act for 2014, which also shows the same attitude towards the Bulgarian Parliament and the functions that we have as a body that adopts this Budget Act must control its implementation. Colleagues, I suggest that the text remains as it is and only when we have provisions in law, then that this relationship between Bulgarian municipalities and the budget be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I support the proposal that has been made by my fellow Members and the reasons that have been presented in his defence. Along with that, if this motion to drop out is not accepted, I am making an editorial proposal to the current para. 2 with the following content to fall the last part of the proposed para. 2, that is: On the basis of another Law or Act of the Council of Ministers, to be replaced by the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, it's about the Law of the Year. This way, al. 2 will have the following content: the budget relations under para. 1 may be changed in accordance with this Law or under the State Budget Act. Why do we need to make this restriction? The public finance law that we consider defines part of the relationship between state authorities in the financial area. The other part, and the larger part, is determined by the State Budget Act itself, which is adopted every year and has a one-year period of validity. If there remains the last opportunity that the importers have provided for:.. or act of the Council of Ministers...................... the Council of Ministers........................................................... This is the Institute of delegated legislation in which Parliament gives up some of its powers to the government. There are similar opportunities in other countries in Europe, but I would like to stress that this is impossible in Bulgaria and it is even unconstitutional because there are no conditions and frameworks within which Parliament gives these powers to the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, the second argument is essentially. If this possibility is allowed, then the State Budget Act itself should, in addition to its name, contain only one article first, which sets out the general framework of revenue and expenditure. If changes are made to the relations between budgetary institutions, what is the point of debating dozens of paragraphs in the Budget Act, which determines what the budget of ministries, municipalities and so on?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u13	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u14	We essentially only have a framework budget of the state and Parliament should give up, if you accept this text, in the next Budget Bill you should adopt only one text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u15	No, three or four.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u16	Okay, maybe I do. Mrs. Stoyanova completes me. I am not talking here about the Transitional and Final Provisions, which will be more, as they also regulate broader relationships than those in purely fiscal terms. These are my motives, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Besides, the laws should be better written in Bulgarian. That's what I'm doing as a general note, which is not the first time we've come across. It may seem small, but still the coordination of the rules of the Bulgarian language is also one of the conditions, so I do not expect the Ministry of Finance to have this high capacity, but at least the people working in the different legislative departments must comply with this requirement. This is my proposal and the reasons for it, I repeat, if the motion for withdrawal is not accepted, then as an alternative proposal I shall make the wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u17	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Rumen Gechev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! This is an extremely important text that must not be adopted. I'll try to sum up what it's about. If we vote on the text, it means, in short, that we are putting the Minister of Finance, whoever he is, over the parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u19	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u20	As in this text, the Minister of Finance will be able to make changes in relations with the municipalities' budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u22	As long as we meet here day and night until a budget is adopted. This one, first. It has to be very clear. Therefore, such text cannot be accepted. Today the Minister of Finance is one and tomorrow another. Secondly, it was mentioned here about European practices. I ask the Deputy Minister Mr. Ananiev to come and say in which countries in Europe there are such content in the Law on relations between budget and municipalities, because I have read these laws, and to say in Germany, France and Italy, is that so? We have an obligation, Madam President, the laws we adopt to comply with European practices. Therefore, I very much ask the importers to come to this platform and to say in the Budget Act of Germany or in Spain it says something, as they will not be able to tell you that it says so. Therefore, we must not support this text and please vote as the Budget Act is voted on in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u23	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u24	My fellow Members, I am surprised by the claims made by the previous speakers that with this text we are giving the Minister of Finance the right to make budget corrections. I suppose they argued that, referring to the experience when they were in power, when they were ruling and when their minister of finance in all the governments in which they had a minister of finance had the right and made adjustments on their own as he saw fit. Moreover, perhaps they remember, and so they say now, the practice when, in the last days of December, the Minister of Finance distributed surpluses to the budgets in terms in which he, as he saw fit, assessed. However, this is not the case now, and this is not the case since we adopted the Public Finance Act three years ago. In it, for the first time, we have banned the Minister of Finance from ordering the finances of the state as he sees fit. And only the Council of Ministers, as a body whose decisions and motives to them are absolutely public and transparent, can make similar adjustments within the framework of the adopted State Budget Act. I would like to return to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and remind you that it is written that it can only make a budget and correct a budget of the Council of Ministers. You know very well that when such a correction is required in one direction or another, it is only and only initiated by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u25	The proposal is coming to parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u26	The Council of Ministers is the only one who initiates such changes. Listen to what I'm saying! [[Reply of the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u27	Colleagues, you'll have the opportunity to say a few lines. Please, in the order in which we have provided for in the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u28	One of the talkers said something that I, by the way, fully share. I believe that if we look at the texts of the Constitution and see what the National Assembly adopts in the annual State Budget Act, we will see that things are probably not quite compatible. It is not possible, in so many articles and paragraphs of the state budget, which is a programme, a financial plan for the government's work next year, to clearly and very precisely write out and justify all the amounts, all the different budgets These are the main things the Council of Ministers cannot come out of in any way. Moreover, if at the end of a budget year the state has surplus, as has happened in previous governments, instead of the Council of Ministers, even if it decides to distribute this surplus, this is not allowed by the Public Finance Act. Then, if he wants to distribute surplus rather than reduce the deficit with him, he must come here to us and justify these requests. So I see nothing wrong and nothing other than greater transparency than the practice that has been applied so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u29	Any lines to Mrs. Stoyanova? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u30	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have explained exactly what this is about. The distribution of the surplus in the budget is under one regime with a decision of the Minister of Finance and Government and approved by Parliament. It is one thing to have an initiative the government and to propose, the Council of Ministers enters here, in parliament, to change the budget, not to change one-on-one. So this is the very important difference. We want parliamentaryism to remain. The budget law is defining, any change in budgetary relations should, as is parliamentary practice in the world, enter parliament. Simple and clear. Secondly, I do not have the answer to the question in which laws on public finances, in which leading democracies in Europe does the Minister of Finance have such rights? We claim there isn't. If you claim there is, give the texts, we'll apologize and vote. But I won't! And it should not be Bulgaria to be the first country in the European Union in which any finance minister will change his budgetary relations with municipalities, obviously for political reasons before elections, after elections, depending on their behaviour. What do you mean? There's a Constitution, there's a Budget Act, there's laws under the Budget Act. So this vote is very important. We must not transfer European established parliamentary rights to any minister of finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u31	Second line? Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u32	Madam President! Mrs. Stoyanova, I was under the impression that you understood and even largely accepted the motives in my speech. You in yours did not disprove them by confirming that it is the Council of Ministers, in this case, besides the initiator of these changes, will also be the authority that accepts them instead of the National Assembly. But to claim that this is admissible from a constitutional and parliamentary point of view, I think no one could support it. Therefore, I continue to insist that you comply with the proposal I have made. Otherwise, it would mean, for example, that a municipality that has a certain budget from the National Assembly may at some point either a large part of this budget be taken away from it or be given a significantly larger one at the expense of others. These are the simplest, but it's practically possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u33	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u34	How is that not true? That would be quite possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u35	Of course not!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u36	Because the Council of Ministers will change budgetary relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u37	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u38	Why wouldn't that be possible? It'll be possible. You may say he won't do it, but he has the opportunity to do it. This is the basis for bringing the matter aside from its parliamentary appropriateness and from the point of view of its constitutionality. From now on, I call on these parliamentary groups, who are aware of what it is about, if this text is adopted, in this part of it to be attacked before the Constitutional Court. Once again, the entire budget procedure almost loses all meaning except for those macro indicators that you correctly listed -- budget deficit, government debt, common revenue and expenditure frameworks. Everything else remains in the full freedom of the Council of Ministers not only to offer it, but to offer it to itself, and to decide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u39	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u40	Firstly, I would like to say to Mr. Gechev that if we are talking about European practice, it was in the Commission that we discussed this European practice and in many of the European countries the budget does not go through Parliament at all. So there is the place for these debates and comments. As for your claim, Mr. Stoilov, that the Council of Ministers can reduce or increase the budget of a municipality, this is simply not true because the budget of a municipality is formed from the budget of state delegated activities and from the budget of local activities. They are all determined by the respective regulations adopted in the State Budget Act. And then, when the Council of Ministers by its decree, as you say, gives it to a municipality, it is for a targeted project from its part, which it has defended as a project that is important, strategically important for the municipality concerned and the surrounding municipalities. In no case does this concern the direct budgetary relations of the municipality with regard to local and state delegated activities. Madam Chairman, Mr. Ananiev wanted to answer the question, Mr. Gechev asked him a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u41	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister. Mr. Ananiev will answer the questions from Mr. Gechev. Wait for Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Tsonev to make his statement. He'll probably ask you questions, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Let's get back to the text, because the debate at this point I think does not exactly clarify the situation with this change. From the current text of para. 2 drop only if this is provided by law. So far, the text reads as follows: The budget relations under para. 1 may be changed by order of this law on the basis of another law or act of the Council of Ministers, if this is provided for by law. That's out of the question now. What is this law that provides for an opportunity to change? The President of the Budget Committee was right Mrs. Menda Stoyanova that such internal shifts are still being made in the budget relations under para. 1. But what is this law that allows the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance three years ago, before the adoption of this law? This is the State Budget Act, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u43	There's a D.O.O. budget, health fund budget, budgets a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u44	Yeah, the three laws. When do we allow and in what frames with an act of the Council of Ministers to make such changes? When we adopt these, generally speaking, three budget laws. There in Transitional and Final Provisions we say that one-what can be done in one-some way in one-something boundaries, frames, in the event of this or that circumstance. Therefore, I propose an editorial amendment to be published in the previous text, but after the proposal of the importer, after the Council of Ministers to add it to if this is provided for in the Law on State Budget or Budgets of the Ministry of Health and Health. Because if we accept the text in this version, we are at all deprived of the possibility of discussion in the form and manner in which these changes could be made. And nothing prevents the Ministry of Finance, when submitting the State Budget Act, from mentioning the boundaries of these changes, which the relevant authority, in this case the Council of Ministers, may make during the year. This is my proposal, and I think that this is how things are getting closer to each other. At the same time we are giving the Council of Ministers the opportunity to be flexible and to react according to the situation...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u45	Not like that. For every correction from one ministry to another cannot be passed through the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u46	It doesn't have to go. I'm sorry we have to have a discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u47	You will make a line according to the order, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u48	With my proposed editing, everything does not have to go through the Budget Act and through the National Assembly. There are texts in the draft government budget for both small budgets that give the relevant authority rights to make such changes during the year. And in order for us to have the right to discuss them here and not for each of them to pass, I suggest that this happens once a year with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u49	All I'm asking you to do is just write your offer and give it to me. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev? I won't. We're listening, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a feeling there's some misunderstanding of the text the Council of Ministers is proposing. This isn't about handing out some money. This is about offset changes which, at the beginning of the year, are found in the central budget because of the fact that we do not know the natural indicators that will appear during the year on which we will translate these transfers. And I'll give you a few examples. There are dozens of them, but I'll give you a few examples. For example, people who go on haemodialysis are paid travel expenses. We do not know how many people from a municipality will need this free transport service at the beginning of the year. In addition, another type of expenditure provided for in the central budget is the scholarships of the gifted children. This is based on requests from the relevant municipalities under the implementation of the budget. Thirdly, I will give an example with a theme which is very much discussed here... about the bread for remote and high-mountain settlements. We are currently in procedure with the National Association, which has undertaken to make a mechanism and this mechanism to pass through the municipalities. On the basis of this mechanism over the course of the year, we will give money to the respective municipalities to organise this process. There are dozens of cases like this. As for whether it exists or is not in other European countries, it is a matter of a constitutional arrangement. However, all these countries have a central budget in which they store the resource for which the financing mechanism is not clarified at the time of the draft Budget Act for the year in question. I'll give you one more example. For example, the Ministry of Education and Science there is a system called "Admin M" that monitors children who are trained in the relevant educational institutions. In case of a reduction or an increase in children or children in kindergartens, a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Science is presented, and the Ministry of Finance makes this change. This isn't about handing out money. We have this money in the central budget. We expect the natural indicators and make a compensated change, not an increase, but a offset change for the target costs that are foreseen in the central budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the texts discussed? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov to drop § 7 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 28, against 33, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposals for the version of the text in the order in which they have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u52	I withdraw my offer and join Mr. Tsonev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u53	Mr. Stoilov withdraws his proposal as he joins Mr. Tsonev's proposal, which is after the import text para. 2 sounds like this: the budget relations under para. 1 can be changed by the order of this law, on the basis of another law or act of the Council of Ministers We are voting for Mr. Tsonev's editorial supplement. They voted 96 MPs: 31, against 17, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 7 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 74, against 23, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u54	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for paragraphs 8 to 11, as well as § 12, with the following wording: 79, para. 7 after the word "year-olds" is added to the tax laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u55	Statements on paragraphs 8 to 12 including? I won't. Anblok, we vote paragraphs 8 through 12. They voted 93 MPs: 74, against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u56	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 84 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: The mayor of the municipality in a financial rescue procedure sends the draft budget to the municipality for coordination by the Minister of Finance. (6) Within the term under para. 4 The mayor of the municipality shall present the draft budget for public discussion by the local community, announcing the date of the discussion at least 7 days in advance on the website of the municipality and in local mass media. The public discussion shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure laid down by the municipal council. A protocol shall be drawn up for the proposals received, which shall be submitted to the municipal council together with the final draft budget. Paragraphs 14 to 24 are also supported by the Commission and are importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u57	Statements by § 13 in the version of the Commission? The remaining up to 24 are fully supported by an importer. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 13 to 24 inclusive. Vote 95 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u58	Under § 25 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev, which the Commission does not support: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130l is created. 3: The Municipality, which once entered into a financial rescue procedure and received a loan to implement the rescue plan, cannot reapply for new loans under the current financial rescue programme. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130g para. 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Finance, according to the Municipal Rescue Plan, grants a one-year fixed interest loan at the expense of the budget, corresponding to the interest of the last government debt issue issued by BNB for the purpose of implementing the plan for the financial recovery of the municipalities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in points 4 and 8 and does not support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 9, which I will now read. "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 1.1. In para. 1: (a) Point 4 is amended as follows: "4." the outstanding liabilities available at the end of the year under the municipality budget for the last three years exceed 10 per cent of the reported costs of the municipality for each of the three years; (b) Point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. The primary budget surplus of the municipality is negative for each of the last three years, without taking into account the cost of servicing the municipality's debt; (c) point 6 is amended as follows: The rate of tax revenue collection of the municipality decreased over the last three years or was more than 25 percent below the national average reported in the last year. 1.2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The methodology for calculating the indicators under para. 1 is determined by the Ordinance of the Minister of Finance, agreed with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. 1.3. The creation of para. 3: In the calculation of the indicators under para. 1 The exceptional one-off transfers provided are excluded outside the subsidies approved by the State Budget Act for the year concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130c para. Two down. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130 d.o.b. 2 is amended as follows: Each quarter of the website of the Ministry of Finance shall be published information from the reporting data of the municipalities on their financial situation, including: 1. The indicators under art. 130a, para. 1 of all municipalities. 2. Municipalities in a financial recovery procedure. 3. The interest-free loans and subsidies granted from the central budget under this Chapter. 4. The indicators under art. 130k, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Point four accepted. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 5.1. In para 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." an assessment of the impact of the plan on the local community and on the services provided; 5.2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Financial Recovery Plan, which provides for the use of a temporary interest-free loan under art. 130g, para. 1 shall be agreed in advance with the Minister of Finance within the period for public consultation set by the municipal council, including the amounts and conditions of interest-free loans. The Minister of Finance may agree without comments or provide further guidance on the preparation and content of the plan. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 6.1. In para 1, the words.. may be replaced by.. within 30 6.2. In para. 2 words under conditions laid down by the Minister of Finance. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130z is created para. 3: The limitation under para. 2 shall not apply to debt of municipalities on temporary interest-free loans and on loans granted to them by other persons in the sector of government. Point 8 has been accepted. Nine. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is 9.1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: On a proposal from the Minister of Finance, by an act of the Council of Ministers, municipalities may be granted an additional subsidy from the central budget to repay the loans under art. 130g, para. 1 in cases where: 1. there is a lasting trend for improving the financial situation of the municipality; or 2. the deterioration of the indicators is proven to be due to the impact of objective external factors such as unemployment above the national average, labour force structure not meeting local needs, adverse demographic processes, etc., 3. municipalities fall within the scope of a national programme or policy for targeted state support. 9.2. To create a new para. ... with the following content: (b) A permanent trend for improving the financial situation of the municipality under para. 1, t. 1 is available when there has been an improvement of three and more indicators defined under art. 130a, para.1. 9.3. Al. 3 is amended as follows: To the request under para. 2 evidence of the implementation of the financial recovery plan and of the conditions under para. 2 shall be mandatory. 1 and the amount of the additional subsidy is offered. The Minister of Finance may also lay down additional requirements for the provision of information. 9.4. To create a new para. ... with the following content: The draft regulatory act referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 is agreed with the National Association of Municipalities in The Commission supports, in principle, the proposals under paragraph 1. 4 and 8 and does not support the proposals under point 4. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 9. Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposals under paragraph 1. 2 (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (g), (g) and (f), 3 et c. 7. The Commission does not support the proposals under this item. 1, t. 2 letter (b) (i.e. 4, 5, 6 and 8. "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the rate of tax revenue collection over the last three years is reduced or by the end of the year is more than 25 percent below the national average. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The indicators referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the ones referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the ones referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 shall be calculated by methodology adopted by the Minister of Finance after prior coordination with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Point 2 is supported, the letter is supported. However, the letter "b" of point (b) of point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the words "b) of point (c) of paragraph 2 of this Article. 2 is not supported (b) in para. 2 points at the end of the sentence is replaced by a comma and added to that number for: 1. The indicators referred to in art. 130a, para. 1 for all municipalities; 2. the municipalities in a procedure for financial recovery; 3. granted interest-free loans and additional subsidies from the central budget under the order of this Chapter; 4. The indicators under art. 130k, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Point 3 is supported. Point 4? read: "4." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, ct. 4 at the end of the text, after the word (b) in para. 4 in the first sentence, at the end of the text, after the word "supplied', a comma shall be placed and added, including by the amounts and conditions of interest-free loans. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 words can be replaced by the words within 30 days, in agreement with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. (b) in para. 2 words under conditions laid down by the Minister of Finance and then the comma are dropped. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130z, para. 2 a sentence is created second and third: the Minister of Finance is pronounced within 30 days. Non-production shall be deemed to be a tacit agreement. Point 7 has been accepted. It's 8 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point 1. a new para is created. 2: In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 130g, para. 1 may also be granted in the absence of a permanent trend to improve the financial situation where the failure to improve the indicators under the plan under art. 130f is due to external 2. paragraph 2 becomes para. 3. 3. paragraph 3 becomes para. 4, such as the words........................................................................................... The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposals under paragraph 1. 2 (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (g), (g) and (f), 3 et c. 7 and does not support the proposals under point 7. 1, t. 2 letter (b) (i.e. 4, 5, 6 and 8. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova on the grounds of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 25 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Chapter 8 is created with art. 130a-130l: ..Chapter Eight................................................................................................... Municipalities with financial difficulties Section I General provisions Art. 130a. (1) Municipalities with financial difficulties shall be municipalities for which there are three or more of the following conditions: 1. the fiscal rules under Article 1 shall not be complied with. 132, para. 1 and 2; 2. the expenditure obligations available at the end of the year for the municipality's budget exceed 15 percent of the annual average of the expenditure recorded over the last four years; 3. the commitments available at the end of the year for expenditure of the municipality's budget exceed 50 percent of the annual average of the expenditure recorded over the last four years; 4. the outstanding liabilities available at the end of the year under the municipality budget exceed 5 percent of the expenditure of the municipality recorded for the last year; 5. the budget balance of the municipality's budget over the last three years is negative for each of the three years; 6. the average collection rate for property tax and vehicle tax is below the average collection rate of the two taxes for all municipalities reported in the last year; (2) The Minister of Finance may decide to be assisted by a temporary interest-free loan under art. 130g, para. 1 municipalities with financial difficulties. Art. 130b. (1) For municipalities with financial difficulties a financial recovery procedure shall be opened in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of municipal finances. (2) The procedure for the financial recovery of the municipality shall be opened for a period of one to three years. (3) The financial recovery procedure shall take into account the interests of the local community. Art. 130c. (1) The Ministry of Finance shall monitor the municipalities for assessment of the indicators under art. 130a. (2) In the event of the existence of three or more of the conditions under art. 130a Minister of Finance shall inform the mayor of the municipality of the taking of the actions under art. 1330d, para. 2. Art. 130. (1) The Minister of Finance shall issue methodological guidelines and guidelines on the application of art. 130a, para 1, which is published on the website of the Ministry of Finance. (2) Information shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance every quarter from the reporting data of the municipalities on their financial situation. Section II Opening of a financial rescue procedure Art. 130d. (1) Every year by 10 March the mayor of the municipality shall carry out an assessment of the existence of the conditions under art. 130a, para. 1 at the end of the previous year. (2) When in the assessment under para. 1 is established that there are three or more of the conditions under art. 130a, para. 1, the mayor of the municipality within 7 days informs the municipal council that the municipality is in financial difficulty and proposes to the municipal council to open a procedure for financial recovery. (3) Within 10 days of notification under para. 2 The municipal council by a decision adopted by a majority of more than half of the total number of municipal councillors: 1. initiate the procedure for financial recovery; 2. instructs the mayor to draw up a rescue plan and hold a public discussion of the plan with the local community; 3. set a time limit for the preparation of the plan, which may not be longer than one month, and set a line and time limit for the conduct of the public discussion, which may not be shorter than 14 days. (4) Within 7 days of the public consultation, the municipal council shall decide on the period of the financial rescue procedure and adopt the plan for financial recovery. (5) With the decisions under para. 3 and 4 the municipal council may assign the mayor of the municipality to make a request to the Minister of Finance for financial assistance to the municipality in the form of a temporary interest-free loan from the central budget for the purpose of implementing the financial recovery plan. (6) The mayor of the municipality shall carry out an ongoing monitoring of the conditions under art. 130a, para. 1, by making a mandatory assessment, analysis and forecast of their amendment to the half-year and end of the current budget year, setting, if necessary, deadlines and steps to take appropriate action. Section III Plan for the financial recovery of the municipality. Implementation of the plan Art. 130. (1) The financial recovery plan shall contain: 1. a system of criteria and financial indicators designated for monitoring in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of municipal finances; 2. performance indicators to assess the achievement of performance targets, including measures to optimise the structure and number of staff, and a timetable for their implementation; 3. management, organisational, legal, financial, technical and other actions to implement the plan, including measures to improve local revenue collection; 4. assessment of the impact of the plan on the services provided; 5. other measures suitable for the financial recovery of the municipality. (2) The financial recovery plan shall determine the responsibilities of the mayor of the municipality and the municipal council for the implementation of the measures and activities provided for therein. (3) In cases where the municipality has overdue obligations to the plan under para. 1 a programme for the payment of the overdue debts of the municipality, which includes: 1. measures to prioritize and optimize costs; 2. measures to increase revenue collection; 3. a time schedule for the servicing of the overdue liabilities until their full repayment. (4) The Financial Recovery Plan, which provides for the use of a temporary interest-free loan under art. 130g, para. 1 shall be agreed in advance with the Minister of Finance within the period for public consultation set by the municipal council. The Minister of Finance may provide further guidance on the preparation and content of the plan. (5) After its adoption by the municipal council the plan under para. 4 shall be sent to the Minister of Finance. (6) The mayor of the municipality shall publish on the website of the municipality on a quarterly basis information on the implementation of the financial recovery plan. Section IV Temporary interest-free loan to implement a plan on financial recovery Art. 130g. (1) The Minister of Finance may grant temporary interest-free loans at the expense of the central budget for the purpose of implementing the plan for the financial recovery of municipalities whose financial recovery plans are in line with the opinion of the Minister of Finance. (2) Temporary interest-free loans under para. 1 shall be granted under conditions laid down by the Minister of Finance with a recovery period which cannot be longer than the period of the financial recovery procedure set by the municipal council. (3) For loans under para. 1 The provisions of Article 1 shall apply. 105 and 106. Art. 130z. (1) The mayor of the municipality shall report on a quarter to the Minister of Finance for the implementation of the plan for financial recovery for which a loan under art. 130g, para. 1. (2) In the event of trends for failure to comply with the set objectives for financial sustainability and stability of municipal finances and for permanent improvement of the financial situation of the municipality in a procedure for financial recovery, the municipal council may decide only after the prior agreement of the Minister of Finance to obtain interest-free loans, as well as decisions to assume municipal debt through the conclusion of contracts for loan or issue of municipal securities and the issue of municipal guarantees under conditions and by order laid down by law. (3) The Minister of Finance shall express his opinion under para. 2 within 30 days of notification of the municipality's intention to assume debt. Art. 130th. In cases referred to in art. 130g, para. 1 The Ministry of Finance shall carry out an ongoing quarterly monitoring for the implementation of the plan under art. 130. In the event of a deviation from the objectives of the plan, the Minister of Finance may suspend the granting of the loan under art. 130g, para. 1 where it is intended to be granted in separate instalments, following the submission of the written justification by the mayor of the municipality concerning the reasons for such non-compliance. Art. 130k. (1) On a proposal from the Minister of Finance with an act of the Council of Ministers of the municipalities may be granted an additional subsidy from the central budget for repayment of the loans under art. 130g, para. 1 when it is established that there is a lasting trend to improve the financial situation of the municipality, such as in the implementation of the plan under art. 130 e achieved: 1. reduction of the overdue debts; 2. primary budget surplus for the last reporting period of the municipality, which is the positive difference between revenue, aid and donations, expenditure and budgetary relations, without taking into account the costs of servicing the debt of the municipality; 3. sustainable increase of own municipal revenues, excluding those of a one-off nature; 4. increased collection of own income; 5. reduction of administrative costs without taking into account one-off costs. (2) The request for additional subsidy shall be made by the mayor of the municipality to the Minister of Finance not earlier than 6 months after the adoption of the financial recovery plan. (3) To the request under para. 2 evidence of the implementation of the financial rescue plan is mandatory and the amount of the additional subsidy is offered. The Minister of Finance may also lay down additional requirements for the provision of information. Section V Preliminary termination of the procedure on the financial recovery of the municipality Art. 130l. (1) On a proposal from the mayor of the municipality, the municipal council may terminate the procedure for financial recovery before the expiry of its term if the municipality emerges from a state of financial difficulty. (2) Proposal for early termination of a financial rescue procedure, which provides for a financial rescue plan with a interest-free loan from the state budget, shall be agreed in advance with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u59	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to our proposals, as they are trying to bring some order with quantitative indicators, because, honourable Members, if the proposed text is adopted this way, it will bring complete chaos to the relations between the budgets of municipalities, mayors and the Ministry of Finance, respectively the state budget. Why? Take a look at art. 130g. I give an example: the Minister of Finance may grant temporary interest-free loans at the expense of the central budget. Firstly, loans are not interest-free, as the state budget will take loans at a certain rate. They will be interest-free only for the municipality, i.e. we "all taxpayers, including those from the successful municipalities, will pay for the fact that certain municipalities have inefficient governance and cannot fulfil their budget. That's one side of the question. But pay attention to not only that the Minister of Finance will grant interest-free loans, but immediately we say in art. 130k: "1." on a proposal from the Minister of Finance by an act of the Council of Ministers to the municipalities may be granted an additional subsidy from the central budget to repay the loans under art. 130g (mg/kg of complete feedingstuff with a moisture content of 12% or more by weight) That is, we give interest-free loan to a municipality of Hicks, it does not comply with its rescue plan, it cannot repay its interest-free loan, and the bailout again appears, the minister of finance, who will decide which municipality of all parties managed will receive a second or third loan. In addition, interest-free loans offered by the Ministry of Finance, which are unique as European practice, can practically be granted several times because it writes Well, when the single healing period of three years is over, let's say, what is the guarantee that the same municipality or several municipalities will not enter another healing period in which taxpayers will again be forced to pay? In addition, we guarantee that each municipality will most likely use the services of financial consultants who will always bring the municipality to a loss so that it can benefit from an interest-free loan from the State. Only the naive will go to withdraw loans outside the budget where they will pay interest. In addition, pay attention, honourable Members, in the same article. 130k. Here's what it says here: when you can give interest-free loans first, a reduction in overdue debts. We ask: Dear colleagues, how much? Could it be a penny less overdue debt? Maybe because there are no quantitative indicators here and that's why we're making a proposal in percentage. Secondly, a reduction in overdue liabilities........................................................................................ How much budget surplus, guys? One lev, three levs. And 17th century, 100 million? It's not clear! Sustainable increase in own municipal revenues "Who and where does it say what a sustainable increase means? This is a series of five indicators that are 100 percent locum without any quantitative indicator. So, we're going to argue with the Minister of Finance whether a penny is enough or should be $1 million. 37 leva. and 6 c. There's no indication. Therefore, with these texts here that have been read, we give an absolutely unfounded and unheard of for European practice freedom to the Minister of Finance, whoever it is, to determine what is a sustainable increase, how much is the surplus, whether it is a penny or 1 billion, what are the trends. Even here is allowed, pay attention, second or third loan of the municipality if there is, quote para. Art. 2 of art. 130h: where there is a tendency to default the set targets for financial sustainability. So there's a failure. And what does the Minister of Finance do? We give him the right to award the municipality where there is a trend of performance. Well, colleagues, that's against common sense. This will bring complete chaos to the relations with municipalities and most importantly we warn you most cohesively, it will cause the municipalities that are above the line to enter the line, and those who are profitable, working municipalities, they are not so unreasonable. They will withdraw from the banking system and start putting pressure on the budget to finance them without interest. I must tell you that I do not envy Mr. Goranov at all, because the moment you give him this atypical European practice power, the pressure of municipalities on the minister, on your minister of finance, will be colossal. They will ask him for money the way he gave Teteven, so to give to Cherven Bryag or Burgas. And then this pressure on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria can lead to chaos and failure of the budget. Therefore, our objections are serious and please support our proposals, which attempt to introduce quantitative indicators and restrictions when and under what conditions the Minister of Finance will be able to assist the municipalities. We are not against the support of municipalities, but the non-market approach and the risk of the budget poses exceptional risks to the finances of the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Do you have any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u62	I cannot fail to make a reply to Mr. Gechev because his speech completely disagrees with the proposals made between first and second readings by him and his colleagues. Here, from this tribune, he pleads that there is chaos in the relationship between the state and the municipalities in a certain difficult financial condition, but in the proposals which Mr. Gechev and his colleagues have made in art. 130g, which he repeatedly quotes, and art. 130k, where the additional subsidy is, quite the contrary, are trying with their proposals to force the Minister of Finance without judgment to actually provide the municipalities with such an additional subsidy. Here in your proposal you say that an additional subsidy to repay the loans under art. 130g, para. 1 can also be granted in the absence of a permanent trend for improvement. You're offering this thing, and you're both pleading something different here. I'd say what you're saying is basically in principle. After all, for municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, who have fallen for one reason or another in a difficult financial situation, you know very well that for many of them this is due to adjustments in the implementation of their European projects, there must be a way to be supported, there must be a way to be healed and through these texts in the Public Finance Act we are trying to bring order to this situation. You know very well now that municipalities can ask for a interest-free loan from the Minister of Finance and he can grant it to them without any rules, and you are opposed to these very rules. If you wanted between first and second readings to change the texts in this direction in which your speech was made, you should have simply asked to cancel the texts of art. Art. 130g. 130k, not to make them restrictive and to be implemented by the Minister of Finance without comment and without appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Gechev, colleagues! For me, the most important thing is to create some regime and opportunities based on a mechanism to support municipalities. I understand your concerns, but because I have a serious practice, as well as some of my colleagues here, let me remind you that there were years in which the municipalities were simply making up some unpaid debts, after all, the Ministry of Finance is clearing everything of all municipalities and thus the bad ones are getting worse, and the good ones are being punished for coping. That is to say, in my opinion, the Bill as a whole and the specific texts give opportunities to create a certain mechanism that will be objective. Management does not necessarily have to be bad in order to come up with problems with unpaid debts. You know that in Bulgaria there are municipalities and municipalities, as we go from Sofia and reach a municipality with 2 000 people, with clearly what opportunities, with clearly what economic potential. It's not necessarily that wherever there's financial problems, managers are bad, mayors are bad, municipal councils are bad. There are, unfortunately, Bulgarian municipalities in which it is very, very, very difficult to get out of the difficult financial situation. I would ask us to support texts that create an opportunity for an objective mechanism, which will give the Ministry of Finance and us both a chance to ensure the smooth functioning of Bulgarian municipalities. Otherwise, it is obvious that the moment will come when we still need to think about optimization of municipalities in Bulgaria. I'm not talking about drastic things, but there are still municipalities with 1500, 2000, 2500 people who have no potential for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. Third line. "The People's Representative Alexander Nenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Gechev, I cannot agree with you that in art. 130k has any dose of subjectiveism. I'll tell you why. Firstly, because in the Bill itself, as submitted by importers, it is very precisely and clearly stated under what criteria, under what circumstances could such an interest-free loan possibly be granted to municipalities that meet the five criteria under which municipalities with a difficult financial situation are led. Which only suggests that you are a financier, you know very well that in the course of the procedure for the recovery of the municipality... what is imported to the municipal council, what is agreed with the Minister of Finance, very precisely and clearly in the plan itself are the parameters from which the municipality must come out. Therefore, when you say that an additional interest-free loan can be granted for another year, it is very clear under what conditions such a hypothesis can be assumed. This is when one type of plan is implemented, it sets specific parameters, and when this plan is implemented, even though it does not fall within the scope of the three years, but it is really seen financially that the municipality is getting better in terms of debt, as far as the budget and the surplus budget are concerned, the primary one to be achieved, the cost reduction and the overdue liabilities, then I do not see what is the reason why an additional loan cannot be granted. This means that the municipality is going in the right direction, that it is carrying out its healing plan, and I do not see any subjectivism in this thing, because already in the setting of the plan itself, its vote and adoption by the Minister of Finance very precisely and clearly it is specified what the parameters that the municipality must reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I accept your concern, but once again I would like to stress that there are municipalities that are strangely lost, we have discussed it. How come Sozopol and Nessebar, where rivers of funds flow because of tourism, come to a loss, and we will now reward them with interest-free loans?! There's no way my colleague Zelenogorski would disagree. One is Pleven with a crumbling industry, another is Sozopol or Nessebar, but with these rules we will give the opportunity to continue to trick Sozopol and Nessebar and other municipalities, right, colleague, and to receive interest-free loans such things are. That's what we want to prevent. Secondly, it is not reasonable that it was precisely defined. I don't want to read to you again, there's lots of discounts here, there's no zoom, there's no numbers. The changes in numbers, in the economy are worked with exact numbers or percentages, or absolute values: 5%, 20%, 1 penny, 1 million. There are no such numbers here. There is no way to defend the argument that this is objective, as the Minister of Finance will decide whether a penny or a million is enough. What do you want me to say here? There are no numbers here and there's total subjectivity. In addition, bear in mind, by giving examples with Europe and other countries, that in most countries, honourable Members, it is absolutely forbidden to finance municipalities that are in serious condition from the budget. I will also give you examples of the United States. There is no such thing as Puerto Rico, an entire state, or California Obama has the right to give a penny, and he has no right to withdraw such loans and finance them. May I remind you that a few months, perhaps some colleagues here, some of the federal agencies of the United States of America pò last year, dear colleagues, were closed because Congress and the Senate did not allow President Obama to increase the budget costs by a cent. Federal agencies have been shut down! And here we give the right to a country in a difficult financial condition like Bulgaria, the Minister of Finance to give away and to stimulate municipalities that can be profitable as the seaside but come to a loss. You yourself know the answer to the question Why? And by stimulating such municipalities, we are pushing Bulgaria's budget towards disaster. We can't let that happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u69	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. Here's your speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u70	Dear colleagues, because many things have been said that are not true, correct and true, especially the repeated citation of the maritime municipalities, not that I am their lawyer, but all of us, the MPs of the Budget Committee, have received the reference to how many municipalities are, which do not fulfil each of the indicators referred to in art. 130a. By the way, I'm opening a clamp. Mr. Chairman, earlier, when I read the final version of Chapter 8, Section I, General provisions, in art. 130a, t. 1 The fiscal rules referred to in Article 2 shall not be complied with. 32, para. One and two, I've said one hundred and thirteen two. This is for the record. If we look at this reference, because there is talk of an apocalyptic picture here, where some municipalities will rush forward to ask for money, it shows that the first indicator is that the non-compliance with the fiscal rules under art. 32, para. 1 and 2 and this is that the payments of the municipalities on the debt committed exceed 15% of the average annual amount of own income, here we have the biggest default, the biggest infringement by 27 municipalities. But from there on to the other indicators, by point. 2 For expenditure obligations that exceed 15% of the annual average, we have 4 municipalities. ) (a.k.a. 3 we have 4 municipalities, times t. 4 we have 5 municipalities, times t. 5 The budget balance of municipalities over the last three years to be negative for each of the three years, where the municipalities of the sea were mentioned, is actually about eight municipalities. I can list them. ) (a.k.a. 6 is only 11 municipalities. In 265 municipalities, we say that there are few municipalities that will at the same time not meet three of these indicators. In fact, the idea here is not just to give money, but to inform the public in the respective municipalities very early, that is, to have early disclosure that a municipality violates one or another indicator, which could lead to its grave financial situation. The law must oblige the municipal council, in cases where the mayor reports, to require a rescue programme from him, which does not necessarily immediately include payment by the state of interest-free loans. This is the main place of the State to assess the cases in which the actual situation is severe and the municipality should be supported by such an interest-free loan. Most often these are years of overdue debts. The lyrics are meant to bring order. I believe that this goal is achieved. Maybe these aren't the most precise texts. Perhaps it will be necessary, in the time when they will be implemented, by the practice that will be created, some of them to undergo adjustments next year or the following year. We'll do it. For me it is extremely important to this effort of the Ministry of Finance to set frameworks, to set criteria and, above all, to have an early disclosure to the public and to the municipal council in a municipality that there are problems there whose deepening and untimely removal can lead the municipality to a severe financial situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked for the word as an importer of a series of texts which the Commission considered, part supported, and most of the words were unsupported. I would like to say that the bill is viewed as responding to real problems in the public finances of the country, which concern the part of the government. The support initiative of the Ministry of Finance is appreciated. We believe that texts are a favourable response and a promising attempt to solve existing and growing problems. As far as I have largely fulfilled the will of the National Association of Municipalities, I would say that we have been guided exclusively by the principles of defending justice, the principle of equal treatment of municipalities as ushers with public finances. I also wish with this Bill as it will end as a law, to guarantee this equality and justice, because before the Law and the municipalities and the mayors as ushers are equal. It must not remain the conclusion that the Law serves the transgressors and damages the righteous, the responsible people in the system of the state. In view of this, assessing the possibility for the Minister not only to receive rights, because rights also mean responsibilities, and not to give the impression that he becomes the exclusive sovereign in making decisions concerning financial dialogue with municipalities, I will be able to announce the withdrawal of the proposed but unsupported texts in the draft decision to make a single addition by which we will be able to tell the municipalities:.................................................................. 130a, para. 2 after the statement of the Minister of Finance to add a follow-up opinion of the Board of the National Association of Municipalities may decide to be supported with a interest-free loan under art. 130g, para. 1 municipalities in financial difficulties. I realize the risks, but I find it a good prerequisite for municipalities to be a partner in making important decisions concerning them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the most important amendments to the Law. I have the impression that a number of mayors of municipalities are eagerly awaiting the adoption of this provision to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u75	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u76	There are such, and mainly municipalities with significant debts, which expect the corresponding response from the Ministry of Finance to help solve their problems. In this regard, however, along with questions that are very relevant for such assistance, there are many concerns that the discussion has shown that municipalities that have not followed the financial discipline for a long time can also benefit from these rules. On the contrary, they can create even less incentives in the future among the conscientious representatives of the local authorities, who are still trying to prevent the creation of debts, but to fulfil their financial obligations. Therefore, I propose in the text of the Commission under art. 130a in para. 1 to drop the item. 1 and 6. Notice that point 1 includes municipalities which do not comply with fiscal rules. In such a case, the more they do not comply with them, the more they will be able to claim to receive financial assistance from the State. This is a strange case in which we recognise the fact that the rules of operating with finance are being violated and this becomes a reason for these municipalities to be treated more favorably and to claim financial support from the State. Point 6 "It is about the high levels of non-recoverability of property tax and vehicle tax. In some cases, representatives of the local authorities, in order to be good, do not show the necessary persistence to provide the revenues they need to provide by law and then ask for compensation from the state. For me, without going into the whole discussion about the accuracy of the criteria for the state to commit to such financial assistance, at least these two points need to be dropped in order to stimulate greater financial discipline. I'm missing one more essential condition. It is difficult to add it in this case, but it must be borne in mind: is it acceptable, without taking action to sanction those who have caused the financial failures involved, sometimes they themselves, continuing to carry out their management functions, to want for their own omissions and violations to be financially stimulated? For me, the Ministry of Finance should have taken some action to address the responsibility of why it has been found that in some cases the reasons are purely objective. Here, however, we are not talking about any repressive municipalities, any objective difficulties, municipalities with high unemployment, in a severe demographic situation, but, as mentioned in the discussion, including municipalities that should be in a much better financial condition. I also share the proposal made by my colleague Slavov that it is good that this opinion does not have a binding character to put these problems within the Association of Municipalities and then to compare, to have a disciplinary effect and to have the necessary publicity why these municipalities need support and others do not need it. Again, I believe that this opinion, albeit of an advisory nature, must be in place in order for the Ministry of Finance to adopt its decision further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. The People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u78	Mr. Stoilov, I think there's some misunderstanding that needs to be made clear. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130a is said that as municipalities with financial difficulties will be qualified those of them who do not fulfil three or more of the following six conditions. If we reduce these conditions and subtract the debt, because t. 1 which you offer is precisely the debt, or we remove the low collection of income from local taxes. 6, this means that many municipalities will not receive an indication of their public, their municipal council will not receive an indication that here the mayor and his administration are committing violations. They don't do their jobs, they don't collect enough, they don't make enough effort to collect their own income to finance the costs. The meaning of these criteria is as early as possible to indicate that a municipality has problems and the points from 1 to 6 cover the different directions of these problems. This must in no case be regarded as a direct dependence. If you have problems with these points, we're giving you an interest-free loan. If you read more carefully later, you will see that the public will first be informed, which is a guarantee of transparency greater than the National Association of Municipalities. The public of the municipality concerned, the municipal council, which includes absolutely all parliamentary parties and coalitions, will be informed and this is the greatest transparency. Secondly, before requesting any aid from the state, the municipal council must ask the mayor and adopt a healing programme, which includes raising the collection rate with specific measures for this increase. And when you drop the t. 6, how are we going to indicate that there is a reduced collection? Reduction of the defaults, reduction of the costs of certain activities, see, these are the activities of the municipality. The aim is not because of the violations of one or another official, of one mayor or municipal council to suffer the entire population in the respective municipality and not to receive the necessary services provided by this municipality. That's the point. The point is to indicate early this problem, to become public knowledge and it through pressure and through the healing plan that the municipal council will adopt, to correct the curvature of government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u79	Another line? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u80	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! Just one detail from your statement that those who have committed violations, God forbid, must bear their responsibility. To be honest, in my opinion, the municipalities in Bulgaria are the most tested institutions. I have considerable experience from hundreds of inspections. It is a duty by law to report to the municipal council and to the planned revisions of the Court of Auditors, and the permanent revisions to the signal of the State Financial Inspection Agency and the Economic Police and so on, and the prosecution, which also has planned checks on both budget and municipal property, and on the overall management of the municipality, are quite actively working on the topic. However, it seems to me that despite all the European funding, given the growing responsibilities that the Bulgarian municipalities have, it is good to strengthen control through the Court of Auditors and through the State Financial Inspection Agency, but in order for this to happen, it is necessary to consider whether it is possible to increase the budgets of these institutions in order to have more people. To be honest, both the Court of Auditors and the State Financial Inspection Agency do not have sufficient capacity for financial reasons to carry out even better and more effective preventive control. For me above all, control must be preventive and really, if there are minor omissions, violations, be removed in time so as not to enter into the serious financial problems of the municipality and to lead to crimes and to the search for criminal liability. It's a touch I wanted to share with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u81	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the lines. I think they reinforced the arguments in my speech, and they didn't disprove them, so I could use just to add what was said. Yes, I deliberately suggest reducing these criteria so that people who exercise local authority can be disciplined. You tell me: let's indicate the problems earlier so that the defense mechanism can be triggered. This municipal council, which has decided to exceed the levels of debt, we say to it: "Keep going this way and you will contact the Ministry of Finance to help you solve the problems that you have created yourself. Or instead of telling them: next year give a higher level of tax collection, we want them to report that they cannot collect their taxes, accept a healing plan in which to make any promises and against these promises to receive financial support from the Ministry of Finance. In my opinion, there is another instrument which, even if not enshrined in the Law, is a very important lever in management policy. Have you, since I do not have such statistics, a comparison between what municipalities have financial obligations, but at the same time use very large funds on the various European projects. Because if there was a commitment that municipalities that have no reason to be in a difficult financial condition cannot receive as a bonus the work on a number of projects, because if there is a link between the financial situation of the municipality and this is at least one of the criteria for its application for European funding, much more incentives will be obtained. A large part of the municipalities rely mainly on the management of European projects and not so much on the budgetary resources that they have delegated to each other by the State, activities which, in many cases, are an additional obligation for their management activities. These are very important questions. The very fact that such an analysis can hardly be presented shows that very much is thought about the absorption of European funds and not about their recovery in the most effective way and in the interests of the most people. My proposals for dropping these points remain as the more the criteria shrink and the less in these particular financial failures have a share of the people who have managed the municipalities, the better conditions will be created to get out of this state and only then to be supported. Because you will automatically reduce the number of municipalities currently according to these criteria. If they are implemented, probably at least half of the municipalities will apply for state support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u83	Mr. Nenkov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u84	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I think we need to answer a very important question which, in my opinion, has not been mentioned in the previous speeches, but the point is that we currently have over 170 municipalities, I think, according to the Ministry of Finance, which rely entirely on the budgets delegated by the State. They barely have their own economic lives. Of these 156 last year ended with a budget deficit. In fact, I believe that this mechanism, which is being introduced by the importers and what we are voting on at the moment, has been delayed, as these are problems -- we are not talking about the municipalities that were mentioned just now -- which are deliberately or in a dreary way or in another form, raising obligations, but a much larger percentage of the municipalities that are in difficulty are for objective reasons. Here we really need to answer the question: for the future, what do we do with them? Because, yes, this mechanism is really important, it will really give a breath, but undoubtedly the bigger problems are that there is a demographic collapse in some of the municipalities, there is no economic life whatsoever, therefore revenues in the municipalities have significantly decreased. So really, on the one hand, this mechanism is late to some degree and an hour should rather accept it. Of course, in time it will give its reflection and we will see whether it has fully covered in an objective and subjective way the problems of these municipalities and their way of solving them, but we must certainly think in the future about the possible consolidation of municipalities to which it will give more breath, more revenue, more business in order not to need this mechanism. Last, since a lot is being commented on whether it is a reward, encouragement, punishment, I will give you another point of view. Imagine being the mayor of a municipality, for example, several mandates, and having led the municipality to such a financial difficulty. Although the Constitution also states very clearly that municipalities have their financial independence, as well as management, suddenly you will go and ask the municipal council where the other political forces are, as Mrs. Stoyanova said, to go to the public and say in a loud voice that you have actually failed as a governor, as a mayor and are now actually dependent on the Ministry of Finance. I do not think that a mayor who respects himself who claims to be a good ruler will allow the Minister of Finance, respectively, the state budget to enter his municipality and no more independence and publicly say that he has failed as mayor. Take a look at this view of the answer to the question whether it is a reward or a punishment for a municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u85	- What's the line? First line, Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u86	Mr. Nenkov, I fully support your speech, especially from this point of view, because this is also the meaning of the Law on Publicity, Transparency, to make it clear to the whole public what is happening in this municipality and what awaits it. I think you just hinted, and you should have taken this much more seriously on the problem of how small municipalities are that have no own income or have so little that in any way, whatever healing programme they take in terms of cost reduction, it cannot happen. At the same time these small municipalities perform the entire palette of services, which performs a large municipality, for example Sofia or Plovdiv. To provide this palette of services, it engages both human and financial resources. Another question is what is the quality of these services, because you know that very often a person reconciles a variety of types of services that the municipality provides, and their quality is quite low. It seems to me that the second step when the first results of the assessment of the financial situation of the municipalities come out, the second step will be this one here, from this tribune, in this Chamber to raise the question of the appropriateness of certain municipalities to carry out the entire palette of services, which is replaced by each municipality, and is it not time to think not only about the merger of some small municipalities, but also about the award of different categories of municipalities different scope of services that they perform in relation to their population? That is, categorize municipalities to several degrees and each one of them, depending on its financial, human potential to perform those services for which this financial and human potential has. Very often we receive from municipalities and from the National Association proposals [[the President signals that time has run out]] for additional local revenues such as deductions from Republican, but they will not solve the issue of small municipalities. Yes, they will. Such an approach will give additional funds to large municipalities, which will become even richer and not small ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u87	Second line? A hole, Mr. Nenkov? You won't use it. Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u88	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to say that such a procedure has been proven necessary. We cannot simply lightly reject the possibility of writing in detail the possibilities for financial recovery of municipalities, given the current financial situation of not a small part of them and not only small municipalities, and not only those who do not have enough own revenues. In principle, it is possible, respectively, and correct, as far as it is spread in democratic countries, the support approach at the expense of withdrawing part of the municipality's sovereignty. I will not agree with Mr. Gechev this is a model that exists in both Western Europe and the United States. Rather, the delicate point is whether this happens after the formal bankruptcy of the municipality or before it? As far as Bulgaria does not know the formal bankruptcy of a municipality, it is logical to be on the path of recovery as proposed in this Bill. However, a few very significant questions arise here. The first, of course, is the question of moral risk: will the municipalities in Bulgaria actually be encouraged to low financial discipline, excessive spending and debt, especially if they can rely on certain guarantees for obtaining free funding within the framework of the financial recovery? Secondly and far more important is that the powers of the finance minister are extremely superficial and recorded on a knee in this Bill, and it seems to be unlimited. It is precisely the lack of detailed powers and detailed obligations and limitations, as well as the lack of, notice, any form of control over the activities of the Finance Minister, with the exception of one approval throughout this chapter by the Council of Ministers, and only approval, and again by the executive authority, give rise to the actual risks to this bill. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova described in detail what activity the Finance Minister should perform when approving the plans, respectively, in the possible granting of the interest-free loan, respectively in the case of his possible re-nomination and conversion of the interest-free loan into a subsidy. Where is the guarantee that the Finance Minister will carry out all these activities with due care? I reply immediately to the guarantee under this Law is none, and the guarantee of the previous political practices in Bulgaria is negative. There is no case so far that the finance minister has been party indifferent to the financial problems of the local government, regardless of which party we are talking about during the long-standing period of Bulgarian democracy and local self-government. If we say: "Yes, it is better to have some rules than to have a completely promiscuous regime so far. " "This does not mean that we can lightly adopt the first rules that are adopted in this area, in fact, be rules of sovereignty and controllessness of the finance minister. There is no need to bury our head in the sand and not see the obvious risk of severe political influence in the coming years, regardless of which party the finance minister is from. In my opinion, the political party GERB has far the greatest interest in signing much more complex rules and responsibilities, given the huge presence of the party in the local government, which is at least guaranteed for the next three and a half years, for which there is naturally no guarantee that the finance minister will be from the same party. Last but not least, there is a principle issue here. Yes, in principle, when central financial problems of local government are financed, regardless of which level of local self-government, because Bulgaria is one of the few countries, which has only one level of local self-government, it is logical that the financially supported municipality receives a certain form of control over the implementation of its financial activities. That is, this loss of sovereignty, which my colleague Nenkov spoke very correctly about. However, a big and principled question arises here: Why is this loss of sovereignty in the direction of the Minister of Finance? The minister of finance does not dispose of public funds, he is a performer of parliament's will, just as the mayor is a performer of the will of the municipal council. This loss of sovereignty of municipalities cannot be in the direction of the executive power. It should be in the direction of the National Assembly in the absence of an intermediate form of local self-government in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u89	Replices to Mr. Kanev? For the first line Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u90	Dear Mr. Kanev, first of all, I would like to tell you that in no case has it been said that municipalities will be encouraged through these rules to spend, as they will receive a guarantee of support. That's just not true. They are encouraged now because of the lack of rules. And now they can ask for financial support without any commitment on their part to improve the state of the municipality and without any public control and publicity. I strongly disagree with those arguments of yours. The rest of your arguments were directed to the great powers of the Minister of Finance and, above all, that GERB party currently manages the largest share of the municipalities in Bulgaria, there is interest in this Bill. On the contrary, Mr. Kanev. If the GERB party through this Bill wanted to decide its party wishes, it should not propose any regulation, because at the moment the lack of regulation is the best thing. For the first time the GERB party and its executive three years ago proposed a Public Finance Act and tried through this Law to bring order to relations and public finances, and now improve this Law by wanting to put in order the relations between the state and municipalities, and especially the management of municipalities, whose main part is governed by GERB party. On the contrary, your claims are irrelevant in this direction if the Minister of Finance really wanted this, but he certainly does not want it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u91	Is there a second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Stoyanova, it's good to hear from you, we're so close. You said what I said. First of all, it's better to have a regulation, it's better than what I've said so far. I said that since we are introducing it as well, it is good not to have the lack of control of the Minister of Finance, then I said the party GERB has the greatest interest not to have such uncontrollableness, that is, this bill to be better than what we are voting on. Here again, I fully agree with your logic: no, you have no interest in such a Bill because your 130 mayors will fall after another year in the hands of a finance minister who will be from another party and who will prove that unlike the GERB party is not so tolerant of the mayors of opposition municipalities because you have already seen what executive power means to be intolerant of opposition mayors, although for a short period of time. In this case, we fully match our arguments, and from this point of view I say, with all the arrangements that are being thought in the right direction, but I cannot support a bill that gives a rarely bad solution to existing problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u93	You should have made suggestions to improve it instead of at second reading to speak from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u94	Will other MPs enrich the debate? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I invite the MPs to the House, we start voting. First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 13 against 27, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ivan Slavov's proposal was withdrawn in his unsupported part. There are editorial proposals that will be voted on shortly. I am now voting on the proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov, in the unsupported part, and this is in point. 1, t. 2b, t. 4, 5, 6 and 8. We are voting on a proposal from MPs which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 19 against 40, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. In the version of the Commission for § 25, in which a new Chapter 8a is established with Articles 130a to 130l including, in art. 130a, para. 1 Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposes to drop the item. 1 et c. 6. We vote on Mr. Stoilov's proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 23, against 51, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Ivan Slavov Ivanov proposed a new version of para. 2 in art. 130a to read: The Minister of Finance after an opinion of the Board of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria may decide to be supported by a temporary interest-free loan under art. 130g, para. 1 municipalities with financial difficulties. It shall be completed after the Minister of Finance and the text after the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Association. We are voting for Mr. Slavov's editorial supplement. Vote 94 MPs: 28 against 14, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting for the entire § 25 for the creation of Chapter eight "s' with its members from 130a to 130l together with the name of the chapter, the divisions of the Commission's report. Vote 98 MPs: 78 against 17, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u95	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for § 26-28 and § 29 in the following version: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after Paragraphs 30 and 31 are also supported by the importing Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u96	Statements under § 26-31 included? I won't. We are voting on these paragraphs in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u97	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the subdivision and § 32 by importer with the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In 2016 the assessment of the indicators under art. 130a shall be made on the basis of the data from the accounts of the municipalities at the end of 2015. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u98	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name "Transitional and final provisions" and § 32. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u99	There is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, which the Commission generally supports and proposes to create a new § 33: ................................................ Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Finance shall issue the instructions under art. 130d, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u100	Statements on the Commission's proposal for a new paragraph? I won't. We are voting § 33 on the report. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u101	There is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Slavov, which the Commission does not support, namely: The order under art. 130a, para. 2 shall be prepared and approved by the Minister of Finance, agreed with NSORB, within 30 days after the entry into force of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u102	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Ivan Slavov's unsupported proposal for a new paragraph. The Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 10, against 28, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u103	Paragraphs 33 and 34 by importer, supported by the Commission, become Articles 34 and 35 respectively of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u104	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote both paragraphs. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u105	There is a proposal by the MP Ivan Slavov § 35 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov. The proposal was withdrawn at a Commission meeting. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u106	Statements? You're withdrawing him, Mr. Slavov? And Mr. Slavov withdraws his offer. We vote on § 35 by importer, supported entirely by the Commission with a new numbering of § 36 on the report. Vote 87 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u107	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37 by the following wording: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Law on Municipal Debt (prom., DV,...), in art. 58 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. In para. 4 words................................................................................. 1.. 3.. are replaced 3. In para. 5 words "s" and 2 "s" are deleted. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u108	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 37 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 0, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u109	Paragraph 37. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u110	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u111	He's being withdrawn by Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u112	Proposal of the MPs Rumen Gechev, Georgi Turnovaliski, Manol Genov, Dora Yankova and Ivan Ivanov, which was withdrawn during a Commission meeting. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova on the grounds of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the EUMC, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38, and shall propose the following version: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (prom., SG No. 101 from 2015) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 is created. 4. The provisions of art. 153, para. 8 of the Public Finance Act shall apply to the person under para. 3 as well as for other legal entities controlled by the State and entrusted by law with such management of EU funds and their banking services by the Bulgarian National Bank. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 3 is repealed; (b) c. 4 The rules are added after the words....................................................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 4. The authorities referred to in para. 1 may grant grants to large projects within the meaning of art. 100 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and before a decision on a major project under art. 102 of the same regulation on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers. The decision of the Council of Ministers indicates the source of funding of the project in case of a negative decision on a major project. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 3 to be added at the end according to its powers under the State Aid Act. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The Head of the Managing Authority shall unilaterally terminate the administrative contract concluded under the terms of Article 3. 24, para. 4 in the case of a negative decision on a major project. (b) The current para. 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Regulation (EC) No 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64. 2 is amended as If a beneficiary does not make a request for final payment within one month of the completion of all the project activities, the managing authority may carry out the project on the basis of an on-the-spot check carried out by the beneficiary. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 68 the word "acts" is replaced by "acts" and the words "acts." 3 and 4 are replaced by 4............................................................................................ 9. Article 75 is amended as follows: Art. 75. (1) The financial corrections assigned to beneficiaries of the operational programmes financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund shall be at the expense of the beneficiaries. (2) The financial correction shall be carried out by voluntary execution by the beneficiary or by a subsequent payment under the project and, where this is not attributable to the exercise of rights under the collateral granted by the beneficiary under art. 61, para. 2, together with the interest payable for the period after the expiry of the 14-day voluntary implementation period for operational programmes co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, or the 30-day period for the programmes for cross-border cooperation at the external borders of the European Union in order and manner defined in the regulatory act under art. 7, para. 4 t. 4. The judicial challenge of the decision setting out the financial correction shall not prevent payment from being made. (3) Where the financial corrections assigned to the authorising bodies concerned within the meaning of § 1, item 3. 5 of the Additional provisions of the Public Finance Act have not been recovered from the respective beneficiary under para. 2, they shall be reimbursed from the respective budgets of the chief authorising officers with a budget, the authorising officers with a budget under art. 11, para. 9 of the Public Finance Act or by the budgetary organisations under art. 13, para. 4 of the same law, in whose structure is the beneficiary, in order and manner defined in the legal act under art. 7, para. 4 t. 4. (4) In the case of non-refundable under the order of para. 2 and 3 of financial corrections fixed to the budgetary organisations concerned may be applied the provision of art. 106 of the Public Finance Act. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO 11. Paragraph 5 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) c. 3 the words "the organisation of the bank accounts' and "the organisation of the bank accounts' shall be deleted. (b) To be created t. 5. It's five o'clock. the draft guidelines and/or other documents setting out the conditions for applying and the conditions for implementing the approved projects before they are submitted for approval shall be agreed on compliance with the applicable State aid rules under art. 26, para. 3. 12. In § 8, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions after the word "Law" is added as well as the instructions issued by the Minister of Finance for the payment of grants, the verification and certification of expenditure, the organisation of the accounting process, the reimbursement and write-off of irregular expenditure and the closure of the operational programmes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u113	Statements under § 38 in the version of the Commission? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 82 MPs: 71 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u115	We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u116	The Commission proposes that § 39 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u117	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 73, against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs from § 40 to § 45 inclusive. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 70 against 3, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u119	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 46 and proposes the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Internal Audit in the Public Sector (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 4 the words "checks" in the secondary officers with a budget, in which "checks" are replaced by "checks" in the organisations whose heads are secondary officers with budgets to which the "requests." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 3 the 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 3 words 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 the words..The guides
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u120	Statements under § 46? I won't. We're voting on the paragraph. Vote 78 MPs: 70 against 4, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and § 48 by the following wording: ............... 48............................................................... In the Law on Medical Products (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 30a, para. 1 all over the word "Publican" is replaced by "Publican" is replaced by "Publisher."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u122	We vote § 47 and 48. Vote 80 MPs: 70 against 5, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u123	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 49 and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 34 is In the event of non-compliance with the term of art. 94, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act of the President of the Municipal Council and the municipal councillors shall not be paid remuneration for the period after the expiry of the corresponding period until the adoption of the municipal budget. The remuneration payable for this period shall be paid after the municipal council adopts the municipality budget. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 the word "Republikan" shall be replaced by the word "Republikan" shall be replaced by the word "Republikan" shall be 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 2 the word "Publican" is replaced by "Publican" is replaced by "Publisher." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u124	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 49 to 53 inclusive. They voted 86 MPs: 73, against 10, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 54 and propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law for the Settlement of Certain Labour and Insurance Rights of Bulgarian Citizens ( SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2 the word "Publican" is replaced by "Publican" is replaced by "Publisher." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 3 the word "Publican" is replaced by "Publican" is replaced by "Publisher." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the word "Republikan" is replaced by the word "Republikan" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u126	Statements? I won't. We vote paragraphs 54 to 57 inclusive. Vote 87 MPs: 74 against 7, abstention 6. The proposal has been adopted and, with this, the Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PAID SERVICES AND PAID SYSTEM. We have until the break to hear the report of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u127	First of all, it's a procedure. Please Mr. Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, to remain in the Chamber on this point, as well as to allow Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, state expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u128	I put to the vote the proposal for admission to the Chamber, waiting for Mr. Ananiev to join Mrs. Stoyanova's request and stay in the Chamber. Vote 71 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u129	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2016. At a meeting held on 12 May 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev, Tsvetanka Mihaylova, Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and the Ministry of Finance, the Deputy Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Nina Stoyanova, experts of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria "Vania Manova and Rumyana Butanska, etc. Deputy Minister Ananiev presented the Bill and pointed out that it aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of payment account fees, the transfer of payment accounts and access to payment accounts for basic transactions. The bill provides for banks to provide consumers with payment services in the accounts for basic transactions relating to the opening, use and closure of a payment account, the deposit and withdrawal of cash from a payment account and debit card payment transactions, free of charge or against eligible fees, regardless of the number of payment transactions carried out on the account. These requirements achieve greater consumer protection, as the fees for almost all basic transaction payment accounts they carry out will be lower than the national average and the bank average for the relevant type of operation. The bill provides for amendments to the rules of the Reconciliation Commission for Payment Disputes relating to the requirements of procedures and alternative dispute resolution bodies provided for in the Consumer Protection Act. The Law also introduces the option under art. 1, t. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2015/751 of the European Parliament and of the Council on exchange fees for card-related payment transactions. Until 9 December 2018, trilateral payment card schemes operating through a payment service provider or issuing card payment instruments with a partner in cooperation with different brands or through an intermediary shall be exempted from the requirements for the application of the established maximum levels of exchange fees in Chapter 2 of Regulation (EU) 2015/751 in respect of national payment transactions under certain conditions. The bill defines the Bulgarian National Bank as a competent authority responsible for compliance with the Regulation by establishing a system of sanctions applicable to infringements of the Regulation and appropriate and effective out-of-court dispute resolution procedures in relation to its implementation. In the course of the discussion, the representatives of CRIB expressed the opinion that the introduction of the option of art. 1, t. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2015/751 would lead to a violation of fair competition between both payment card schemes and banks in Bulgaria. This would have a direct negative effect on traders who would be forced to pay higher admission costs (so-called trader service charges) for payment card transactions in trilateral schemes. Ms. Tsvetanka Mihailova explained that the Regulation gives this option to the Member States so that trilateral card schemes with small market share can go well and possibly expand their market share. The Governor of BNB Mrs. Nina Stoyanova added that the Regulation works for Bulgaria and for the whole of the European Union since December 2015 and that the option is temporary for two years and the share of these schemes is insignificant and does not matter very much to the market. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Guys, this is where we're gonna take a break. The sitting was held at 2:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u131	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce you to her Chairman Mr. Petar Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u132	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2016. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 18 May 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Faisy Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance, Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Department of Finance and Snezanka Koleva State Expert at the Department of Financial Markets and the Bulgarian National Bank Nina Stoyanova Member of the Board and Governor of BNB, and Antonio Quickski Head of the Department of Payment Systems. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Bekir. The requirements of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the comparability of payment account fees and access to payment accounts for basic transactions are introduced in Bulgarian legislation, namely: - comparability of payment account fees imposed by banks and other payment service providers; - establishment of a quick and easy procedure for consumers who wish to change their payment service provider; - ensure that consumers legally residing in the EU are able to open accounts regardless of their residence and financial situation. The proposed Draft shall make amendments governing the work of the Reconciliation Commission on Payment Disputes relating to amendments already adopted to the Consumer Protection Act. Changes to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank amend the legal framework of payment supervision carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank with a view to carrying out its functions more effectively. The creation of new regulations is proposed in both the Consumer Protection Act and the Credit Institutions Act. In his opinion on the Draft Law, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRIB) supports the idea of improving the conditions of the financial services market in Bulgaria. Along with good legislative proposals, the Bill also contains provisions that would distort fair competition in the financial services market and may create serious difficulties in implementing them. The CRIB does not support the proposed amendments to Paragraph 29. 3, on the exchange fees of card-related payment transactions, and considers that this text should not be accepted in order to preserve the competitive environment of the payment services market in Bulgaria and to protect the interests of all participants in it, banks, traders and consumers. In the subsequent discussion the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank expressed their consent in principle with the opinion of CRIB. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u133	Thank you. There is no report submitted by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds. I'm opening the debate. Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In short, we will support the changes in the Bulgarian legislation and regulations concerning the services that the banking system performs under different orders, transfers, payments and so on, as the application of this directive of the European Union will lead to direct access of citizens to what services are offered, at what prices. Secondly, it will enable Bulgarian citizens and companies to make a comparative analysis of the prices and qualities of the services offered by individual banks, as a result of which there will be a third, very important effect. Colleagues, I would like to stress, you remember, we have changed banking legislation and we have introduced market bases in forming banks' interest rates. As a result of increased competition, we have achieved a very good result, and it is that bank interest has gone down among other factors. At the same time, however, the regulation on bank charges is insufficient, since this Directive has not been in operation so far. Most of the Bulgarian banks used this opportunity to compensate for lower revenues from lower interest rates. From an economic point of view, and from a social point of view, the introduction of this European directive is mandatory, acceptable and it will have positive effects. At the same time, we are joining the remarks of a number of organizations and will not strongly support the change in § 29, item. 3. To tell you briefly, colleagues, this is about lobbying, that is, allowing 2-3 banks to have the right to an exception from the European directive for two years, which creates privileged conditions for certain banks, including banks that have decades of experience and accumulated tens of billions of reserves in the World Banking System, which is why we believe that granting such exceptions and unilateral advantages leads to a violation of the competitive conditions in Bulgaria. Therefore, honourable Members, let us support this project, let us support the directive and let us not allow any changes to § 29. 3, as competition is above lobbying interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u135	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u136	Dear Mr. President, I propose a roll call check procedure, as the bill is extremely important, and we see that there are not enough people in the Chamber. I propose a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u137	Thank you. The list, please! Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - absent Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u138	Additional entry: Menda Stoyanova, Vladimir Toshev, Boyka Marinska, Georgi Gokov, Dobrin Danev, Iskren Veselinov, Ivan Valkov, Diana Yordanova, Dimitar Boychev, Ayhan Etem and Georgi Bojinov. We have a quorum. Let's move on. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems, No 602-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2016. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted and is thus adopted at first reading and the bill under discussion. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PARTICULAR SECURITY ACTION. A report came in from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The report will introduce us to Mr. Peter Petrov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First of all, I would like to make a proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u140	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Petar Petrov. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tsipov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u141	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security, No 654-01-62, submitted by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2016. At its regular meeting on 11 May 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act, No 654-01-62, submitted by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister; Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Rumen Ivanov. In his exhibition he noted that the right to personal security of individuals is regulated in the Private Security Act. The submitted bill proposes a change in art. 6 establishing a legal basis for the issuance of a regulation, with detailed rules on the terms and conditions for carrying out personal security of natural persons. The regulatory settlement of personal security, as well as the introduction of minimum requirements and standards to those carrying out this activity, as well as the introduction of minimum security and safety requirements for protected entities, including requirements for the necessary technical equipment, motor vehicles and personnel with the necessary qualifications, will ensure, to the maximum extent, respect for the rights, freedoms and dignity of citizens. Private security activities, including personal security of individuals, as a kind of commercial activity should be subject to clear and strict rules. The existence of rules will ensure that this activity is carried out professionally and meets generally accepted standards. One of the objectives of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act is to establish mechanisms of interaction with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against crime and public order, as well as to carry out preventive activities by analyzing the causes and conditions for allowed offences in the course of this activity. Signing the terms and conditions for the implementation of personal security of individuals, ensuring compliance with the principles of legality and professionalism and will contribute to the protection of the privacy, health and property of citizens. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov expressed support for the submitted bill. The written opinion submitted by the Ministry of Interior stresses that the legal delegation for establishing regulations in a regulation, on the terms and conditions for carrying out personal security of individuals will lead to increased security and safety of the protected sites, efficiency of security activities and effectiveness in carrying out control functions. On the basis of the discussion held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. I'm opening the debate. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Ivanov, anything to say? I won't. You have a say in this? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the discussion in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, our parliamentary group supported the proposed amendment and addition to the Private Security Act because, if you have paid attention, it is a question of amending the Law which allows the Minister of Interior with a regulation to determine the terms and conditions for carrying out personal security of individuals. This proposal came after several cases in which Bulgarian citizens were affected by active guards of individuals. Dear colleagues, only that the Private Security Act itself sufficiently regulates relations between institutions, the Ministry of Interior and private security companies. To what extent such a regulation is necessary and what exactly this regulation will contain, we will yet understand the proposal, with amendments to the Final provision within two months. I call on the Ministry of Interior to limit itself in regulating the interaction with private security companies that carry out security of individuals within the framework of this Law. I am impressed that the arguments in the reasons for the proposal are commercial activity and should be subject to strict and clear rules. The Ministry of Interior does not have the authority to participate in the verification of the commercial activity. This is mixing functions. There are other institutions that are engaged and are tasked to exercise control in the conduct of commercial activities. The intentions, which are apparent from the motives for minimum requirements and standards to those carrying out this activity, create a sense of control other than the current one, which implements the power office of private security companies. There will be different requirements, there will be a possibility of rejection, which can also lead to an element of corruption, pressure. I call on the executive, which will have a commitment to specific texts, to be very precise when drafting the texts, to be in dialogue with private security companies. Otherwise, we have also supported it in relation to the great public interest, and in relation to the need to regulate, however, rules to guarantee the rights of other citizens who face protected persons. Otherwise, it is a par excelance recognition that the Ministry of Interior, the institutions that must ensure the safety of Bulgarian citizens and their property, have abdicated since there is a need for individuals to be protected. We all take advantage of our guaranteed law by the institutions. It does not sound serious that I am reading again from the reasons that with the adoption of these changes and the issuance of a regulation to the maximum extent will contribute to the protection of the privacy, health and property of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Interior should do this to guarantee us as Bulgarian citizens privacy, health and property. The availability of clear rules will ensure that this type of activity is carried out professionally. Can the Deputy Minister, whom we have admitted to the meeting, explain exactly how professional implementation will be guaranteed by a regulation, as he himself, during the meeting of the Internal Commission, expressed an opinion of support in this particular part. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the ruling majority, you continue to propose texts to change laws that are not clear. It will become clear according to the will of the executive, according to the will of the Minister of Interior. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister of Interior is not a professional. You all supported him, gave him credit for trust, but we, as parliamentarians, alternative, opposition to your government, find no reason to believe in the good faith of the Interior Minister in the processes that are taking place in the Ministry of Interior. The big debate on the role of the Ministry of Interior, its functions, the place it finds in the Bulgarian society includes these amendments in the Law. What do we answer to the Bulgarian citizens who heard Minister Bachvarova tell them that he cannot provide police officers in every settlement to protect them from domestic crime, that he has issued a regulation by which individuals can hire security guards? Is this what these compatriots of ours who live in small towns have to take advantage of the decree that the minister will issue and hire security guards for them as individuals to protect their property? These are the big questions that you do not see in this change, but are questions to us as MPs from our fellow citizens. Although we will support these changes, we note to you that the agenda set by citizens to the Ministry of Interior is another. Not to regulate and control the security of individuals, but to take care of those who need strongly the Ministry of Interior to guarantee them, those who do not have money, their lives, their health and their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u144	Any lines to Mr. Iankov? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have already heard that this change in the Private Security Act will be supported by the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria. The lyrics are gluttonous. Today we have also started the meeting to delegate certain powers from Parliament to the Minister of Finance. What the Law governs as a whole, we must provide it to the Minister of Interior in order to lay down, by regulation, the terms and conditions for carrying out personal security on individuals. Yeah, it's a problem that's been caused over the last few years and that needs to be reacted to. In this case, we are also very much referring to the movement of groups of motor vehicles on the streets and roads when doing so in order to protect the movement of certain persons. It should be clear from now on that these types of security activity should not use the possibilities available to the State, for example, to make secession of certain areas or to allow shelters on one vehicle from another, because this would already mean recognising some special status for certain private persons with a view to reasons for their security. I say this when the Minister of Interior prepares these rules, it is clear that obtaining permission to use such guards does not mean to deviate from the generally accepted rules of movement which are adopted in the relevant law. Because we have witnessed precisely such actions by which certain individuals assign functions as there is only the state, and in limited cases. It is clear, however, that most of the protected persons fall into one of the two categories and often into both. These are either people with a lot of money, or people who perform certain actions, to call them, on the edge of the law, which provoke a response among their opponents to apply similar means to be restrained and respected. But what can you do? This is a bigger problem, it does not even come up now with one or another interior minister. This is part of the modern age, and Bulgaria is one of the very good illustrations when the number of guards is almost twice as high as the number of official state bodies involved in security activities and must guarantee the lives and health of citizens and public order. This constant escalation, the constant swelling of the circle of private guards becomes one of the most powerful private sectors, which in many cases instead of cooperating the state becomes some parallel order. On the one hand, this is proof of the weakness of the State, on the other hand.. is a testimony to the expansion of private structures that are starting to compete with it. We can call this period of today's world because, again, it is not only a Bulgarian phenomenon, but in Bulgaria it is pronounced that we are in the era of neofeudal capitalism. It is precisely for the Middle Ages that large structures are formed under the leadership, the command of individuals with private authority, and their functions are based on the patron, on the creation of such specific relationships that are not subject to general regulation. That is why we need to think about the more serious question: how to limit the field of this activity so that it does not become second-hand guarantees for other citizens and only those who have great financial and material opportunities can provide their own environment of existence? So the difference between the ghettos and between the places they inhabit or which create guarantees for the safety of life, the property of a chosen posture by society becomes increasingly sensitive. I hope this regulation will be one of the limiters to create the rules at the same time, but also to ask myself the bigger question I am asking, and this is now the question of the means and conditions in which the national security and security of the Bulgarian citizens are guaranteed. This is the big question to which, in my opinion, none of the last governments have found a satisfactory answer so far. I hope that putting this private regulatory issue will be an occasion for us to think about and look for a solution to the other larger issues related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u146	First line, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Martin Dimitrov is waiting for his second turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u147	Madam President, honourable Members, in this seemingly quite trivial bill I did not believe that we could hear something surprising, but here it was heard from the left, and I cannot fail to take the floor for a reply and not ask Mr. Stoilov what exactly does he mean by "neofe-de-fied capitalism" I think were the exact words he used? He has explained to us more than once about neoliberalism, and we already know so thoroughly what they mean from left under neoliberalism, but I would like to ask really about this non-professional capitalism and whether, by this, for example, the number of incidents that took place in the management of Oresharski, and before, in the case of the triple coalition, when there were a number of incidents involving individuals and so-called private security guards and no actions, no measures were taken to control and bring into order this activity, which, as you can see, colleagues have now tabled a bill and are trying to put into some socially acceptable frameworks to have clarity in order to carry out this activity, and here we are suddenly hearing some things about some neofeudalism or as it was? In essence, the other thing I would like to say to my colleague Stoilov is good things that he told us in the rest of his speech, but it would have been even better if a particular legislative initiative had been taken from the left. You know, there are also amendments to the Law on Road Traffic, and to the Penal Code and all these things have brought them between readings in the way that we, with colleagues from the Reformation Block, have imported them so that there are no really such ugly scenes of self-mutilation on the roads with so-called aid funds, with batons and so on, and that these are indeed qualified groups of hooliganism, to have clear sentences and to intersect more in the fetus such self-indulgence actions. As I said, all this remains within the good wishes to be done on the left. We've heard a lot of talk, but unfortunately it seems to me that I see little action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u148	Second line, please, Mr. Dimitrov. You've given up. Are there any other colleagues who would like to replicate? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u149	Mr. Slavov, yes, you have correctly established the link between what I called "neofeo-fallal capitalism" and neo-liberalism, because I can continue with the other signs, but I think we are still not at a seminar here and we should not deviate much from the content of the proposed short Bill. You have correctly understood the direction and the considerable extent of covering these concepts. The question is: are we able in Europe and in the world to change the characteristics of this society? Because it seems to move forward in a certain way, but in a number of cases this repeats, of course, not literally, at another level models that are historically lived. But that's more than that. As far as legislative initiatives are concerned, let these be done and discussed. Even I can use in a spirit of self-criticism to say that I voted against one of these legislative initiatives in the last term, when the previous government closed down the Alert and Security activities carried out by the Ministry of Interior. Why should there not be such activity in state structures when one of the main functions of the Ministry of Interior is to carry out security and to have a state body that even sets criteria for the prices of this service when it is carried out by private bodies? Otherwise, if we go back, we shouldn't be selective. I am not talking here to throw things on one or another government, as there have been enough bleak cases since the period when the current Prime Minister was Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]] There we have record values in some of the serious criminal events, but they do not specifically affect security activities and therefore I do not dwell on them. So I can't be refuted when the facts speak, but, again, the goal is not to choose one or another government to illustrate the failures, but to point out that the trends in recent years have not changed. So I took the liberty of expanding the actual subject that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u150	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! It's a very nice initiative. In this direction I also had an up-to-date question to the Minister of Interior. This question is as old as our democracy. If we remember, over the years there have been various attempts to regulate and limit the mutren traffic on the roads of some groups, part of the Bulgarian population. You remember that during the ODS there was an initiative "the so-called mosquito." Those were always some initiatives that ended in a month - two - three - and then things started the old way. Now, after the incidents that took place on the ring road, and elsewhere in the country, there was such activity by the Ministry of Interior, but it definitely needs to be regulated legally in order to avoid this campaign, which sometimes borders on populism. It is clear that in our country there is a group of Bulgarian citizens for whom this is prestige, it is not even some time and a danger to their security. It is prestigious for them to drive at least one car behind them to show power, to show influence, to show that they are pò equal to others and that the laws for them do not apply. It is for this purpose that we must monitor and request from the Minister of Interior these rules, which will regulate the respective behavior on the roads of Bulgaria and on the streets of our cities to be so regulated as to be restrictive in relation to the desire of certain groups of individuals to move with motorcades on the street. We must exit from a fundamental position, from a fundamental understanding that in each country the right to motorcade has persons with a certain status in the state.. President, Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly. There can be no private individuals who are so threatened that they threaten with their behavior and with their way of moving ordinary Bulgarian citizens. If we really want to be exclusive about this problem of Bulgarian democracy and to be comprehensive with our legislative initiative, in any case, we must also provide for this opportunity which Mr. Stoilov suggested to ask the Ministry of Interior to have some such part, some structure which, against the corresponding payment, provides state security for example to these individuals, and not to order them in a way that they find good, many times contrary to the laws of the country. Here I come out of the context that we have a Bulgarian politician, to whom we all pay taxes to protect it without knowing why they keep it. He is most likely the bad example that follows the relevant citizens who are moving in this way on the streets and roads of our country. This is a good initiative, and I think that the whole Parliament should support it, regardless of our preconceptions, in the way it is proposed or in which it could develop as a policy in this area of security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u152	- What's the line? Mr. Emil Dimitrov for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Like everyone else before me, I haven't prepared myself at all, but to speak. First, let's move on to the vote. Second, Mr. Andreev, when people get married, they go to motorcades, seniors go to motorcades, and some when they're buried, they get together and their whole family goes after him. Are we going to ban these things with such speeches? Let's focus on the bill that the Ministry of Interior has introduced and vote it in this form and stop improvising, because we can go too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u154	Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u155	Madam President! Mr. Andreev, I expected you to be a man who really understands what he's saying on this subject when you come out here on the stand, to explain to our colleagues on the left that actually the change we bring is about one thing. In this sector, which is extremely special, extremely difficult, extremely flexible, if you want to use this word, there should be clear, strict rules, but prepared by professionals. Mr. Andreev, tell them next time. From professionals, from people who know what they're talking about, who don't mix personal security for individuals with the criminogenic environment or criminally committed acts, or with any other company security, property. This is about finally establishing clear, precise and specific rules for the performance of personal security by private security companies that are licensed now and will be licensed further, but will have rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u156	Third line? I won't. Now you have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u157	Madam President, the first duplicate I'm going to make for Mr. Dimitrov is a clear one. The urge is not just to make a statement, Mr. Dimitrov. By the way, I must tell you that what you have set as an example is not appropriate at all. By the way, the motorcades at funerals move slowly, Mr. Dimitrov, and you, if you do not know, the people in the movement stop to pass the motorcade. As far as seniors are concerned, the police are guarding them. We're talking very clearly here about what kind of motorcades we're talking about. If you're a fan of these motorcades, that's your job, that's still your problem, if you like those motorcades. I know you used to like to use motorcades like that, too, so that's my answer on your line. As for what the colleague said, he is absolutely right. Indeed, these rules must be written down by people who are professionally engaged in security activities so that they do not result in a security activity interfering with the chalga of this security activity, such as the criminogenic factors that usually make similar motorcades. You are absolutely right that you really need a lot of professionalism to get into this, say a legal document that will be issued by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u158	Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to share that I am aware of the public perception in society of this topic for the personal protection of individuals. Just for the record, the current amendment in art. 6 of the Law on Private Security Activities, in principle the Law itself regulates this activity, but within the framework of this amendment it is allowed the Ministry of Interior to regulate it on the horizontal..................................... the use of different types of equipment, motor vehicles, uniforms and so on.............................................................................................................................................................................................. What is important here for me, which I would like to draw attention to in this debate, is the very possibility of interacting this type of security and security with the law enforcement authorities of the Ministry of Interior and a number of other services. In this regard, the proposed amendment to the Law for me is positive and should be given the opportunity of the Ministry of Interior to make its proposal in this regulation in order for there to be clear managers and specific rules for the protection of the personal property and life of the Bulgarian citizens, as well as interaction with the authorities of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u160	Thank you, Mr. Etem. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security, No 654-01-62, submitted by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2016. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. For the procedure please come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the newly adopted bill be reduced to 5 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u162	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Our next item in the Energy Act programme is provided as item 1 for tomorrow, which is why we are moving to the fifth point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RISK ASSESSMENT OF THE FOOD CARE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Belova has the floor on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Foods.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u163	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make a procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Tsvetan Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u164	I shall put the proposal to the vote. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber, we are launching a bill at second reading! They've narrowed it down. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u165	On 9 March 2016, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016, adopted on the first vote on 9 March 2016. The risk assessment report for the food chain and the risk assessment report shall be submitted by the competent authority of the Member State in which In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the Law:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u166	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to change the name of the Law. Vote 77 MPs: 72, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, a procedural proposal has been made and voted in plenary for the admission of the Deputy Minister. However, Mr. Ilian Kostov is also the Director of the Risk Assessment Centre. I also propose that we vote on its presence in plenary. Vote 75 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u167	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u168	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter One. Vote 71 MPs: 68, no objection, abstention 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u169	Proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 and the expression "second-tier authorising officer with a budget" and the dash in front of him is dropped. 2. The creation of para. 3: The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall have the status of a scientific organisation within the meaning of art. 47, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) The law shall regulate the arrangements and activities of the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain and the powers of its bodies. (2) The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain (CORHW) is a legal person of budget support. A minor authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, based in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u170	Statements under art. 1? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Bachvarova, Danev and Radoslav Stoychev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 87 MPs: 22, against 38, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. Art. 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u171	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. (1) The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall: 1. competent authority within the meaning of art. 22 (7) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 178/2002'; 2. an organisation in a network of organisations working in areas of competence of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), pursuant to art. 36 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002; 3. competent and coordinating body within the meaning of art. 75 (1) and (2) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Directives 79/117/EEC and 91/414/EEC (OJ L 309/1 of 24 November 2009).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009', in the procedures for the approval, renewal and review of the approval of active substances, antidotes and synergists; 4. competent authority within the meaning of art. 75 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 for the assessment by a assessment report concerning the authorisation, renewal, amendment and withdrawal of a marketing authorisation and use of plant protection products. (2) The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall interact with EFSA, other European and international organisations and with the competent food chain authorities of other countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u172	Statements under art. Two? I won't. Vote art. 2 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. Article 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u173	"Chapter 2" Center for Risk Assessment of the Food Chain. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Two: "Chapter 2"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Divide I................................................................................ The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name: "Department I.. Risk assessment on the food chain.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u174	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 2 and the name of Section I in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. Names accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u175	Article 3. Proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." draw up scientifically justified risk assessments on the food chain through independent and objective analysis; 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." monitor relevant information, summarize, analyse and update databases for needs and for the purpose of carrying out and implementing food chain risk assessments; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4, at the beginning of the text, the words "in relation to risks identified by him" provide proposals and recommendations on the trainings. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, the Commission does not support it: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 is created para. 3: The career development of the employees in CORHW, operating under para. 1 is implemented in universities and scientific organizations under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain: 1. perform a scientific risk assessment through an independent, transparent and impartial analysis of scientific information on issues directly or indirectly affecting animal and plant health, plant products and plant reproductive material and food and feed safety; 2. collect data, including from external to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, necessary to assess the risk of the food chain; where necessary, for the purpose of risk assessment carry out surveys and collect information on the ground; 3. provide the competent authorities and institutions with scientific assessments which serve to decide on the management of risks on the food chain; 4. in relation to risks identified by him, offers proposals and recommendations on the trainings of: (a) the employees of the institutions which conduct state food chain policy; (b) officials from bodies carrying out official controls pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls carried out to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law and animal health and animal welfare rules, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EC) No (c) persons to whom tasks related to official controls are delegated pursuant to art. 5 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004. (2) The assessment of the risk of the food chain under para. 1, t. 1 is a scientifically justified process under Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and is carried out under conditions and by order laid down by a Council of Ministers regulation. (3) The collection of the data under para. 1, t. 2 and the provision of the assessments under para. 1, t. 3 shall be determined by the ordinance under para. 2. (4) For the provision of services related to the activities of CORHW other than those under art. 6, para. Art. 4, Art. 7, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10, para. 2, shall be paid by a price signature approved by the Director of CORHW, which shall be published on the website of CORHW.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u176	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u177	Madam President, honourable Members! A bill that claims to say that we will manage the risk on the food chain. These are the functions that were read just now. Perhaps this is the most important part of the Bill, as the claim is that these functions comply with the Regulation of the European Union No 178/2002. However, note, first of all, the claim is that this will be a body that will be relevant to the European Food Safety Authority, which is independent, which gives scientific assessments, respectively, manages the risk. That is, if the risk assessment, in addition to having a risk analysis, has risk management, you also have an exchange of information. The functions set out here, half of what the European Food Safety Authority is doing, in our Risk Management Centre or for risk management, will not be included. This means that this administrative structure will practically do what it is still doing. In other words, it translates summarys to the European Food Safety Authority, publishes them because they have no capacity. When it is said that these assessments will be scientifically justified, the first question I ask myself, and further in the Bill exists, is where are the experts who will make these assessments, because the structure of the Risk Management Centre does not have experts who have the relevant scientific knowledge. What the Centre will rather do is not make scientific assessments, which we therefore need in the complex food chain management process in the country, and it will rather use scientific and technical information that has already been published somewhere, will summarize and offer us, from now on, to be made public and in some form to take any opinion on its implementation. Therefore, so described, the functions do not give any prospect that the Risk Management Centre really does perform the functions that are in line with the European regulation. Also, one of our proposals related to training is not accepted. It is very important that those who will manage the risk have a system, methods, way and means to train the staff who will manage the risk. But what does it say here? That the Centre that we create will give recommendations regarding training. What does that mean? That we're not gonna manage the risk, we're gonna make recommendations. If they are performed, if they are not implemented, no one cares. But in the end, the administrative structure that we aim to create prerequisites for the food chain to be cleared of any risks will not be able to fulfil its purpose with so-defined functions. I also didn't speak in terms of the title, but, sorry, what the Risk Management Centre does are functions, nothing else. And with us, the sentence begins: the Food Chain Risk Assessment Center:. If you can tell me this sentence exactly what meaning there is and then the enumeration of the main elements and functions, the Bulgarian language here is a little lame with regard to the presentation of the texts that we are discussing at the moment. We therefore believe that this way the functions will not fulfil their purposes and we would not support this text from the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u178	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. You have the floor, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm going out for this, first of all, to support the proposal, which is what Prof. Bachvarova and a group of MPs. I believe that this is something extremely serious, and I am surprised why the Commission's attitude, and before that the working group, is disparaging to this extremely important problem. And I'm sorry that Professor. Bachvarova did not speak on the first proposal, because this Center should have the status of scientific organization. Dear colleagues, we are talking about something very serious here. This is about the food we are taking, about all these dangers that arise from incorrect manufacturing technology, improper processing technology, and we see what is happening... how much chemistry there is in the ground. We see what happens in processing plants. We're talking about covering the entire food chain here, talking about experimenting, making science, predicting, predicting the dangers. So I ask you to support this proposal by Prof. Bachvarova. On the proposal I am making, I will propose only one editorial change, instead of the career development, to point out the academic development to the employees of the Centre. It takes into account that the vast majority of the people who will work will be researchers. There is no structure in one such center to train. They must acquire a degree, then acquire a scientific position. They can't do that at the Centre. That could happen at high school or at a science institute. Those who are in the system know that the procedures are very complex. They go on a private road, some other organization has to train them, they have to give them this scientific title and this scientific position. So I ask you to support this proposal of mine for this short editorial change instead of the career development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u180	You're proposing an editorial change, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u182	You can only make an amendment in the Commission text. I understand that you are making an editorial proposal in your own proposal, is that correct? You can't do that in your own hands. You need to make an edit in the importer's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u183	That's the only thing that's changed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u184	There's nothing we can do. If you want any editorial change in the text of the Commission. Look at him. - What's the line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u185	My line in a sense also refers to Mrs Bachvarova's statement, as well as the statement of the professor, as far as I do not understand what you are proposing, it has not become very clear to me. You are proposing a new research organisation that needs to explore the entire spectrum of food chain problems. What's that? It's soil, it's biology, it's microbiology, it's physics, it's chemistry, it's physical chemistry. You're actually uniting the BAS and the Agricultural Academy and shoving them into a huge organization. This spectrum for me is too wide as research work. What you're proposing is a huge thing, and I don't see how it's going to be created. There will be, Mrs. Professor, doctors. Doctors of what? On soil, in microbiology, in biology, in chemistry, in what? And for all of these, a scientific organization will be established, a system of degrees and titles will be established, or positions, as well as to be called and so on. I don't understand the structure. This is the second BAS, second Agricultural Academy. It's a very wide spectrum. While I think that all these researches on food, on soil, on this whole spectrum can be carried out in the currently established research organizations. There you should be able to order and implement similar systems. This organization, which you are talking about, may actually have several laboratories without which you cannot, where you can really work habilitated persons, because indeed they are qualified, with the help of lab technicians and assistants to carry out these direct food research. The rest of what they're talking about, I just don't see how it can happen. Research is related to both fundamental science and so on. How this vast spectrum will fit into such an organization did not become clear to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u186	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Professor. Stankov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are talking about this: not to cover this whole range, to catch all this technology, but to catch individual elements, because we are talking everywhere that we need to give a scientifically justified assessment. And if you take the Bill, it's written everywhere by this scientific assessment. This scientific assessment can be given by people who are involved in science and will be in close cooperation with universities, with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Look, if they don't get that status and if they don't get involved, if they don't give scientific assessments, then does it make sense to do this Center? Professor Bachvarova told you: they will gather information, offer information and they can do so within the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. And we're talking about people taking responsibility, exporting the information as it is, being an independent scientific organization with experimental activity. And I repeat: in close cooperation with everyone else who is concerned with these problems, the University of Food Technology in Plovdiv, the Thracian University, Agrarnia in Plovdiv, so there is something to work with and to do successful science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u188	Thank you, dear Professor. Stankov. To speak, the public representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The main idea of the establishment of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre is to create an independent body that is much more precise, much more specific in its prescriptions, in its views on food chain risk assessment. Of course he will step on scientific research, on scientific proposals, but is this the only factor that is important in making decisions? Colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture and Food know this very well. Apart from the scientific factor, there are also commercial, political and many other factors that influence final decision making, so let us not mix what we are betting as an idea of creating risk, and it is an independent body that will be a strict controller of what is happening throughout the chain. I am inclined to strongly support Professor. Stanilov, who said that if we implement the proposals made by Prof. Stanilov, Bachvarova, we have to create almost a very powerful, big scientific conglomerate, if it's going to be an academy or something else, that's not the point. The aim is, I say again, on the basis of the scientific achievements and reports we receive from the other regulated institutes working over the years that have been established to give workers at the Centre for Risk Assessment in the Food Chain their final reports and assessments. As far as academic growth is concerned, I agree here with Professor. Stankov, that it can be implemented only in legitimate structures based on the Law on academic growth, if I quote it precisely and correctly, and not in a structure which we have yet to create, and which has rather control, recommended, quite other operational functions, rather than functions of research. I propose that we support the text which has been finally adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Food and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 20, against 32, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: 12, against 27, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for art. Three on her report. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 64, against 5, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u191	I'm making a procedural proposal to re-vote because some of my colleagues couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u192	Revoting procedure. Please vote art. 3 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 69 against 9, abstention 5. Article 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u193	Proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 4 but since its systematic place is like art. Article 5, provides art. 4 to become Art. 5 with the following editing: Art. 5. The data referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 shall be used to summarize and analyse relevant scientific and technical information for: 1. food consumption and exposure of people to food consumption risks; 2. animal health; 3. the use of feed; 4. pathogenic agents that cause animal diseases,'durings' and food explosions'; 5. the health of plants, plant products and plant reproductive material; 6. mechanical, chemical and biological pollutants, veterinary medicinal products and residues thereof in food and feed; 7. materials and articles intended for contact with food, enzymes and flavourings; 8. plant protection products and fertilisers; 9. diet products, nutrition and allergens; 10. dietary supplements and food additives; 11. genetically modified food and feed and novel foods; 12. the radiation risk to animals and plants; 13. animal by-products and derived products; 14 biocidal products according to Annex V to Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products (OJ L 167/1 of 27 June 2012.) used in food production and marketing sites, except those of product-type 1, 2, 9, 10 and 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u194	Give her art. 5 which you propose to become art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u195	Under art. 5 there is a proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for para. 1 which is reflected in art. 6, para. 3 and does not support it for para. 2. The risk assessments on the food chain shall be carried out in accordance with the Scientific Advisory Board. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 5, but since its systematic location is like art. 4 provides art. 5 to become Art. 4 with the following editing: Art. 4. (1) Based on the data referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 CORHW shall carry out a scientific risk assessment on the food chain with regard to: 1. safety on the food chain; 2. the health of the people related to food and nutrition; 3. animal health and welfare; 4. the use of veterinary medicinal products; 5. the health of plants, plant products and plant reproductive material; 6. the active substances, plant protection products and fertilisers; 7. genetically modified food and feed and novel foods; 8. animal by-products and derived products. (2) The scientific assessment under para. 1, t. 2 shall be made available to the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u196	The proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev reads: The assessment of the risk of the food chain is carried out on the basis of the scientific advisory board of methodologies. This is an unsupported part of the proposal. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported para. 2 from the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev, which I just presented to you. Please vote unsupported by the Commission on a proposal. They voted 94 MPs: 23, against 38, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the texts of art. 4 by importer, which is supported by the Commission, edited by the same and on its proposal becomes art. 5 in her report, as well as Art. 5 by importer, which is supported by the Commission, edited by the same and on its proposal becomes art. 4 in the Commission report. Please vote on Articles 4 and 5 on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 5. Articles 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u197	Article 6. Proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev Six out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) For carrying out a scientific risk assessment on the food chain CORHW: 1. maintain and store databases with the information under art. 4 and 5; [[Noise and lines.]] 2. perform an analysis of emerging risks on the food chain; 3. examine the information needs necessary to carry out an objective risk assessment; [[Noise and lines.]] 4. communicate and exchange of information with all institutions and persons...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u198	Excuse me, Mrs. Belova. I'm asking for a little quiet in the hall, ten minutes to go. Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room for another ten minutes. You can't hear what Mrs. Bellova reported. "4." communicate and exchange information with all institutions and persons concerned with food chain safety; 5. analyzes and prepares: (a) annual by 30 June report to: (aa) the European Food Safety Authority for the results of laboratory studies and studies on' s ever been carried out with regard to' s cause, zoonosis, microbial resistance and nutritional infections, residues of chemical and biological pollutants, plant protection products and veterinary medicinal products and other information related to food chain risks; (bb) the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the Minister of Health and the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH) and, where appropriate, other bodies and organisations concerned with food chain safety in relation to the spread, occurrence or dangers of penetration into the territory of the country of food chain risks; (b) reports to the authorities and organisations referred to in point (a) and (b) where there is an emergency or immediate danger of penetration into the territory of the country of the risks associated with the food chain; (c) additional information in case of suspected high risk of animal and plant health, plant reproductive material and food and feed safety; the information shall be sent immediately to EFSA pursuant to art. 34 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002; 6. analyze the data from the European Union information systems related to the food chain; 7. promote the activities of EFSA through the contact centre under art. 21; 8. participate in projects of EFSA and in projects of other international organisations; 9. maintain a database of national scientific organisations working in areas related to food chain safety for the exchange of scientific information and cooperation under an agreement with organisations. (2) The report under para. 1, t. 5 (a) is provided to the Ministry of Health. (3) Scientific assessments may be carried out by the CORHW on its own initiative or by written award by institutions and persons. (4) A tariff fee approved by the Council of Ministers shall be paid for the awarded scientific assessments. Where scientific assessments are awarded by the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food or by the Ministry of Health, no fee shall be paid. (5) In the case of the award of scientific assessments, the institutions or persons referred to in para. 3 provide CORCH with all available information, laboratory test results and documents related to the request for evaluation. (6) Where all available information under para. 5 or, where the request is unclear, CORHW may reasoned reject the request for assessment or propose amendments to the request after consulting the institutions or persons under para. 3. (7) In carrying out its activities CORHW may entrust scientific assessments of the risks of the food chain and external experts. (8) Persons carrying out the scientific assessment shall sign a declaration of confidentiality on a template approved by the Director of CORHW, with which they undertake not to disclose the information submitted to them and not to use it for their benefit or for the benefit of third parties. (9) Scientific assessments shall be published on the website of CORP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u199	Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In so far, the adopted texts some 18 times have been used for the concept of scientific assessment, but this Risk Management Center has absolutely no scientific potential and capacity. What we propose to drop in the text of the importer is art. 6 which states that in carrying out activities the Centre is entrusted with scientific assessments on the risks associated with the food chain to scientific groups and experts. We propose to remove from the text of the importer, for the simple reason that further in the structure of the Risk Assessment Centre we propose to have scientific advice. But notice, in the version what happens in para. 7 says that this assessment will be assigned to external experts. It is not said that these are scientific experts or experts. And you know what's gonna happen? What is currently happening in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is smaller than what is being entrusted to external companies to carry out certain food safety activities. This means that we will have a modest budget of the Centre for Risk, but we will be constantly assigning external valuers to do us first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and these will be experts. I strongly object to the Commission's version, which should at least be scientific experts and not experts who can be hired at any time. I apologize, but indeed the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of secondary contractors, run to external companies that perform certain functions, and here we are talking about risk assessment. In fact, I propose that, in the version of the Commission, it should be maintained, because you do not accept the proposal, at least by scientific groups and experts and not by external experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u201	Where is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u202	It's al. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u203	In carrying out its activities CORHW may assign scientific assessments of the risks of the food chain and external experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u204	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u205	And you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u206	Look, we're talking about scientific evaluations. Sorry, it's 18 times: we have a scientific assessment. Scientific evaluation, not just expertise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u207	What is your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u208	I suggest the food chain and the food chain as in the text of the applicant, scientific groups and experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u209	Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 20, Against 41, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Svetla Bachvarova in para. Article 7 6 instead of the expression "skilling experts" to use the expression "science groups experts." Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 21, against 48, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for art. 6, edited by the Commission and found the place in its report. Vote art. 6 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 69 against 7, abstention 8. Article 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u210	The Commission proposes to create a new Section II: Section II - Approval, renewal and revision of the approval of active substances, antidotes and synergists and assessment of the plant protection production. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall carry out the approval, renewal and review activities of active substances, antidotes and synergists pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. (2) For the activities under para. 1 fees shall be paid under the tariff under art. 6, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u211	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new Section II under its respective name, as well as art. 7 on the Commission report, which is essentially supported by the importer and edited by the Commission. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new Section II on a proposal from the Commission, as well as art. 7 on the same report. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 81, against 4, abstention 5. The proposal to create a new Section II with its name and art. 7 on the Commission report have been adopted. Due to the running out of time set for today, I'm adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-25.u212	Tomorrow we continue with the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Act. Tomorrow is 26 May 2016. The sitting starts at 9:00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
