ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u1	Dear MPs, good afternoon! Please register! There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention a Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 16 to 18 November 2016: 1. Resignation of the Council of Ministers. (The resignation was lodged on 14 November 2016) It is provided as a single point for Wednesday, today, 16 November 2016 at 14.00 p.m. 2. First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Bill on the State Social Security Budget for 2017. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 197 MPs: for 196, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules were submitted a proposal by Mr. Petar Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov, who proposed in the weekly program of the National Assembly for the time from 16 to 18 November to be included as a point Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Deposit Guarantee in Banks, No 654-01-65, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests! This is an important bill. It is obvious that the days of this National Assembly are already numbered, but that does not mean that it cannot do another good job for the benefit of society. I would remind you, fellow Members, that we have recently accepted at second reading the final amendments to the VAT Act and have released the donations of food from VAT.................. which will remain in the credit of this Parliament. The bill we are now proposing is related to the reporting of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. We all know that one of the major problems, probably contributed to the low rating of parliament, as well as to the government's resignation, is that the history of the CCB remained unsolved. One of the big questions that are being asked are to the Syndicates and to the Deposit Guarantee Fund what is going on, how much are the cashiers from the collected property, how much property have they collected and recovered from the drained from the CCB and so on and what is the Deposit Guarantee Fund doing on all these legitimate issues of society? He says: "I am not obliged to answer you because I do not consider myself to be a public authority. So I can kind of do whatever I want and never report myself. What we propose in this Bill is the Fund to become accountable, to provide information to the public under the Public Information Access Act, when it is duly asked, and not to have to I've quoted the case number in the motives of the bill. It is for such refusals to provide public information when it is of great public importance. That's the whole point of this bill. I think it's constructive, not heavy. I hope we can get him into the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Voting mode. Vote 205 MPs: 90, against 39, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies of ministers! As long as this parliament has, as long as it takes! The question is to do at least one good deed every day. Why does the Deposit Guarantee Fund continue to be unaccounted for?! We had a case against this Fund to disclose information about the funds collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u5	And did you win it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u6	And why should this continue to be like this? Bulgarian citizens should have to prosecute in order to find out what the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund is! I specifically address my colleagues from the centre of right and other colleagues. It's a transparency and accountability thesis. For transparency and accountability! It does not matter that we are voting on other items on the agenda. This is a good deed, colleagues, around which we can all unite. I wonder, are there among you people who want this Fund to continue to be unaccounted for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u7	Mr. Dimitrov, a request for revoting is justified only by the inability of MPs to vote so far and not by arguments on the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u8	I'm asking for a re-vote because not all of my colleagues have been able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u9	Revoting! Vote 204 MPs: 97 against 35, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. New bills and draft decisions for the time from 9 to 15 November 2016 as follows: A bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Resignation of the Council of Ministers. Importer: Council of Ministers. Draft Decision on the National referendum held on 6 November 2016. Importers: Dimitar Glauchev, Desislava Valcheva and Daniel Kirilov. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. Importer: Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. A bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Importer: Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Draft decision on the principle of support for the proposals of a national civil initiative "Justice for each" for radical judicial reform guaranteeing the independence of the court, efficiency and accountability in the work of the prosecution. Importers: Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute containing results of statistical research on gross domestic product for the third quarter of 2016. Express assessments. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving to point one, the one for today: LEADING THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL. By letter No 602-03-16 of 14 November 2016, a proposal was received with a draft decision to accept the resignation of the Council of Ministers signed by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. I give the Prime Minister the floor to present his resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 111, para. 1, t. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I resign to the Council of Ministers, elected by decision No 43 of the National Assembly of 7 November 2014. In accordance with art. 111, para. 3 of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers, led by me, will continue to perform its functions until the election of a new government and will ensure continuity in the administration of the Republic of Bulgaria. First of all, to congratulate the winners of the presidential election, a clear, accurate victory, and at least I don't remember such fair elections. Two years ago the state was in a critical situation, I hope no one forgot. We had two options: government after government, elections after elections, or try to stabilize the state somehow. Then BSP and DPS were out of control. The only chance was between GERB, the Reformation bloc and to seek support from the patriots and ABB parties, diametrically opposite, parties that in many things do not agree at all. There was no coming to Parliament in which I did not thank all of you from all the parliamentary groups that you were responsible for having a parliament, that we succeeded in an extremely difficult situation, with migratory crises, with the collapse of entire countries under the pressure of migrant crises, wars, to spend two years. In my most optimistic predictions, this has never happened. I thought the maximum possible year could be spent in this state, in which even our closest coalition partners in the bloc had severe contradictions between them. In order to maintain this stability, we had to make a number of compromises with one, with a second, with a third, with a fourth party. I know what it's been like for me these two years. Our assessment is that we have tried, we have made the most efforts and at the moment neither has the price of electricity increased, third quarter we are second in Europe in terms of growth of the economy - 3.5%, we have managed to pay what was to be paid, nearly 4 billion, in two years and more revenue in the budget, and certainly many things that we have not done. Sunday's vote made it clear that society wants a change, a new one, whatever the people voted for both the referendum and the couple Mr. Radev and Mrs. Yotova said. Some say: "Why should the two choices be bound together? " Because this is a real vote change in the political situation. There's a party stronger than us in this election. Many of you have tried to hurt me. Some that I was a dictator and others that I heard all kinds of nonsense about me. The government is given by the people and at the moment when they are hesitant that this is the right government, they must immediately and immediately return. This is my conviction and my creed. The people on Sunday said: look for another way to keep the state running. Of course, we draw our conclusions, of course, our priorities, which we have thought the cabinet and every single minister I have asked everyone to put on the site and in the days we have left to present to the public what has been done and, of course, what has not been done. I have no claim at all, and I have never had everything we do, to be irreplaceable, or that we have had the claim to be irreplaceable. Therefore, by congratulating the victory, I would like to ask the new majority, the new ones who received the moral right, as I told you two years ago, the moral right to rule has come to us because we are a greater party. Despite the lack of parliamentary elections, we already have a completely different distribution of forces. I have heard many times from Mr. Radev, I have no doubt about this, by the way, two or three days ago, when in the Presidency I looked at the old, leaving President Plevneliev and Mr. Radev, their smiles, well-meaning, continuity, somehow I felt more relaxed because for the people we already have a new president, for the Bulgarians we have a new president. The right thing is not to bring the state into a caretaker government, from January 22nd the second caretaker government, take over now, consult President Plevneliev, Mr. Radev and Mrs. Yotova to assume their new function, given by the choice of the people, make a caretaker government to make the election. We believe you. True, you had a little talk that the election machine was about to manipulate them, all sorts of things. It wasn't like that. Make government, calm the state and rule. Whatever need there is, including by the time Parliament has to work, we will be as constructive as possible. My advice to all political parties is to hear what the people in the referendum said. They have produced 2.5 million more than for Mr. Radev and Mrs. Tsacheva. Whether we like it or not, it is the will of the people, and as I, when there is another will, respect it, so should you. Or if you do not comply, as when the referendum should have started, many of you have left the House to remain only us who let it go, explain to people what the risks are and what should be done because it has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u11	No, no, you accepted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u12	Yeah, we accepted it. We accepted him, Karadaye. I'm not running away from responsibility. Everyone else then expected that we would stop the referendum and that we did not want the will and voice of the people to be heard in the referendum. That's why we let him go. But now for the others to explain the risks. I have one last request for you. A country's budget reflects government policy, government priorities. There are two options if we had withdrawn the budget because people do not imagine that the old budget continues to operate until it comes to parliament, you would say that we are almost bringing the country into crisis. When you vote on the budget, I have a big request to you.. populism is already taking a scary peak among the political class, panicked about being wrong. If many of the proposals I have heard from the committees become a fact in this budget, they are populist, they are very pleasant to hear from people, but on an annual basis the budget will lose about 3 billion, the second year will multiply, the third year, and you will eventually break the state. I know how negative what I'm saying right now is, I know how people want to hear, even though incomes are up 11%. I don't want to talk in numbers, there's no point, no one wants to hear them anymore. System parties are not for one day. Democracy has made them fall, come to power, fight as opposition, prove that theirs was more correct and the most democratic is to respect both themselves and their opponents. At least I'm trying to do it. I have a big request to you: make sure that in two, three or four years, when another government comes, they don't have to start over again. It's gonna be really hard. Several times it was done once, leaving, the salaries of the policemen rose, once, leaving, put a 10% increase in pensions, and then others paid them. Of course, a request! From now on, everyone has their own cross, and everyone will be held accountable to society. Once again, thank you all that despite our misunderstanding between us for two years, we have managed to cope as a parliament and as a cabinet. Well, bad news, people gave their grade on Sunday, they'll give it to you in a year or so. Let's not kid ourselves. We remain responsible. Someone told me I was offended. No, I haven't been offended at all, because the voice of people has always been the most important to me. Always! And now they're telling me, what you offered, what you did, we're less into what the left did, what the BSP did, what the BSP did, their option with an independent candidate thus came out much more profitable, more successful, and they beat each other. I didn't hear from them when we beat them, say we beat them, but it's a matter of mentality. What am I supposed to tell the viewers or the listeners who are waiting for what I'm going to tell them? We've come to a very serious conclusion. We remain at the public's disposal, if one day he decides, we are ready to work for him again. Now society tells us that it wants others and we have to do it. I wish Mr. Radev and Mrs. Yotova success, and I hope that, as in the entire campaign, he explained that he would protect the borders, that he would be a pillar of the state, right now, with his good relations with Mr. Plevneliev, to give a prime minister, ministers and to begin to bear their responsibility. They deserved it and their people gave them the moral right to do it, and no one else should be mad at them. Thank you again, it's been an honor. Thank you, too, colleagues. [[Calls the members of the Council of Ministers. Huge and long applause. The Prime Minister is coming out of plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u13	Colleagues, the debate is open. I recall the distribution of time in parliamentary groups and non-members in parliamentary groups. You know that there is an opportunity to increase the time by 10 minutes, so I will remind you of the increase in time: the group of GERB 40 minutes; the group of GERB left Bulgaria Since three applications have been received so far from Ms. Polina Karastoyanova, Mr. Lutvi Mestan and Mr. Enchev, my request is that the three of them fit in the ten minutes. I'll give the three of them a chance to take a stand. Are there any MPs willing to open the debate? Here you go, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable gentlemen and ladies Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers and Prime Minister in resignation is in absentia! In the spirit of the policy in which we committed ourselves as a Patriotic Front to implement and on which policy to serve, from the first day of the establishment of the National Assembly, we announced that we would seek the common and support everything positive and positive for the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people. In fulfillment of this commitment, after about a month of discussion, we signed a Programme for stable governance, which had to be implemented by the coalition government of GERB and the Reformation bloc with the support of the ABB, as well as the Patriotic Front. In the name of the implementation of this Programme, we also voted to trust the elected government, which has managed Bulgaria for two years. For the past two years, our assessment is that this government has done a very useful job. Our assessment is that extremely key and risky problems for Bulgaria were solved. First of all, then as a time, if you remember, was the huge threat of a bank crisis, of the collapse of the entire banking system and hence of the state Bulgaria in financial aspect. With the common voices, with the unification of the votes of almost all parliamentary groups we accepted, we voted 3.4 billion to stabilise the banking system. At the moment, after successful stress tests against the banks in Bulgaria, it has undoubtedly been found that there is no longer any threat. This is the first great success. I would also like to recall the problems related to the refugee wave and the fact that for two years Bulgaria has been the country of the European Union with the smallest percentage of migrants and the least affected, despite many talking and writing in the opposite direction, the facts are such. I would like to remind you that this government and this government, supported and coalition in the National Assembly, made a decision and made it possible to build the protective facility along the border with Turkey, which is already coming to an end. This protective facility is a serious barrier and a major factor for small migration and a small stream of... I will not say.. refugee because they are more adventurous immigrants, but this is a fact, a circumstance that no one can challenge. Another thing we have achieved in the first months of our government is to impose a moratorium on the logging and the impractical destruction of the Bulgarian forest with the corresponding subsequent change in the Law on Forests. We have also succeeded in achieving in these two years, as a result of working together, agreeing our efforts, objectives and programmes, the beginning of the change in the judiciary, by changing the Constitution, an unprecedented majority of over 200 people, when changing the texts in the Constitution, something that no one expected. We have also managed to maintain without change the cost of electricity for everyday life, which is extremely important in this relatively critical period for Bulgaria. We have also been able to accept the payment of debts made by other governments before us - wrong, disastrous transactions for Bulgaria related to the purchase of the two reactors for Belene and others, and other achievements. This is an assessment of the government's work, which was also supported by the Patriot Front. In an intraparliamentary aspect, we cannot fail to take into account that we managed to achieve a constructive one, I would say, active dialogue with the other parties, not only with the parties GERB and the Reformist bloc, but also with the other colleagues in both the work in the committees and in the work on the adoption of useful decisions for Bulgaria. Of course I list things, like you know, that were laid out in the Patriot Front program. Let our colleagues from GERB and other parties list these priorities that have been set in their programmes, but these are all things that have been set out in our programme and we cannot not be satisfied, satisfied with what we have achieved for these two years and, naturally, and finally what we have recorded in our programme in the first place, have been seriously damaged economic sources and the ability of the DPS to consume and rape power. [[Noise and lines from DPS. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]] That's a fact. The processes in this pro-Turkish party are already in place and we believe they are irreversible. What, though, should be said in the direction of less positive results? During these two years there have been several attempts and, unfortunately, successful, the direct intervention of the executive in the face of Mr. Boyko Borisov, in the work of the National Assembly. This was the case with the change in the choice of the KPC, this was the case with the change in the Energy Act and several other cases, which, in our opinion, were quite ugly examples of a violation of the separation of authorities. I also cannot agree with Mr. Borisov's statement that many compromises have been made. No, when we have had a normal and constructive dialogue, this cannot be defined as compromises and as almost a curved hand. The patriotic front has also given way to many positions, just to achieve an example new Election Code. We did not agree with all the texts, but we achieved compromises, with compromises in the Constitution and so on and so forth. Because this is the way to achieve unity and achieve higher results by seeking common and uniformity, so I cannot accept the assessment of compromises and, in this spirit, accept accusations. I also cannot accept Mr. Borisov's expressed position just now as a new majority in parliament. No, honourable Members, the majority is the same, the old, even increased. Because, with the support of, I would say, the constructive part of the Reformation Bloc and other colleagues, there would be a solidly concrete majority of more than 130 votes. [[noise and lines to the right]] , but only if this dialogue would be preserved and this way of constructive collaboration. So there is no new majority in this Parliament, there may be one in the next. I would also like to disagree with the evaluation of the past elections. The past elections, honourable Members, were actually not as much a presidential choice as they were a vote of no confidence against Boyko Borisov's personality. Only this explains the stable majority of voters in the first round and increased numbers in the second round because there is a waste of leadership and in the face of Boyko Borisov people decided to strike a sound blow by voting against Boyko Borisov. He arranged it himself, unfortunately, declaring that he would resign if he lost the election. And, on the other hand, of course, it has nothing to do with the presidential, parliamentary and other elections. Otherwise all elections would have been in one day, otherwise we would have chosen both MEPs and mayors and MPs and presidents at once. The purpose of this government, which we supported on the first day.. on 7 November, was exactly that, to implement this programme for four years. In this regard, Mr. Borisov's actions are extremely serious. The government had to continue working in the same dialogue with the parliamentary parties and with the same successes, God willing and greater. Unfortunately, we are currently voting for this government's resignation. How will the Patriotic Front vote? We'll accept the resignation. We will vote for the resignation. But I would like to stress that in the past elections the unknown Mr. Rumen Radev won no one but Rumen Radev, and in fact this was a referendum with one single question: Do you want to whack Boyko Borisov? The answer Those were the last elections. So there can be no general conclusion that they are an assessment of the government's work. Moreover, the polls carried out show support for the government's work and unwillingness for early elections of about 45% against twenty-several who want a change in governance. [[Noise.]] So, if we have to comply with the wishes of the people, I recommend in the name of the stability of the country, for the sake of well-being, for the sake of not allowing for at least one more year of timelessness, anarchy, from which the price of electricity should be increased the first thing that will happen, and all other consequences mainly on the business and on the economy, not to allow such drastic change and one year of service government until they get into the work, until they learn where their ministries are, who their employees are time, time, time, time that Bulgaria is gone. I appeal to colleagues from GERB to assess the situation clearly and when the President has appointed a mandate for forming a government, to form a government, I would say, in almost the same composition as we see here, but with another prime minister. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I think this way we will respond to the wish of the Bulgarian voter. That is exactly what he showed with his votes in the last election. [[Noise and lines. Communicating: "Sit down! "]] In the name of stability, in the name of preventing chaos, anarchy and collapse in all indicators, I appeal to GERB to do what people are waiting for him to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u15	Any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I don't see anyone wishing to replicate. The word is Mrs Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and MPs! BSP left Bulgaria and will vote for the government's resignation. You have clearly lost the election for President and Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria. We have won this election definitely. [[Comments from GERB: "Who are you? "]] Not alone, of course, but along with our people, because our party has shown wisdom to raise a non-partisan candidate who in his professional career has proved that he can defend national interest, that he can defend the dignity of the Bulgarian people, that he can be a uniter and that he will be one in the future. That is why he was supported by both young and middle generation, and adults, people from different political parties, from GERB, from Reformers, from DPS, from ABB. We thank these people. We thank the people for the wisdom you have shown, and today there is a worthy president and vice president. We are proud of this victory. But for us this is not a cause for complacency and aggression, for it is not worthy to kick a man or a party down on the ground at all. [[shouts "Eee! " by GERB]] . But it would be irresponsible not to point out to you the mistakes and reasons why you are here today in the capacity of a government in resignation. For us, there are at least two reasons. The first: the total gap between living life and your policies, between the unresolved problems of people and the solutions you offered them. For the majority of Bulgarian citizens, the most important issue is poverty and unemployment. And both are decided by production and economics. Unfortunately, you did nothing to have production and economy. Euro money leaked into highways, in services, not in production, in theft. You didn't create your own economic base. Home production, small and medium-sized businesses were crushed and foreign monopolies were whistling on the back of the Bulgarian people. The incomes didn't move, and poverty grew. Another important issue for Bulgarian citizens, as we have seen from the talks with them, is their desire to have justice. Who kills grandma in the village for 20 leva. Or who steals millions from public procurement, a politician, a powerful man, to be punished. Your judicial reform did not bring about this justice, it was aimed only at controlling the judiciary in order to command it, but not to respond to people's needs. Third, our people love their school and have since given everything so that their children can learn. With the reform of education, you have also taken away these opportunities. You took the money from state and municipal schools and transferred to private colleges. You have reformed all programs, you have hit bottom in your intention to replace the program with Robinson Crusoe. This did not meet people's expectations for educational change. Every Bulgarian wants to be healthy. With the health reform, you deprived him of an opportunity for health care. You put him in line for waiting, on a waiting list, in line for fingerprints. That's what pushed him away, too. But most of all you made a mistake by taking away the sense of dignity of the Bulgarians, because our people have suffered a lot, but they should never reach out to their feelings of Bulgarianity and pride, and you did so with the decision to replace Irina Bokova with Kristalina Georgieva, with the decision to sign the agreement with Canada, with the decision of you serving Erdogan, by offering the removal of visas for Turkish citizens without fulfilling the conditions for this, with the decision to repeatedly support sanctions against Russia. You have damaged the most important feeling of Bulgarianity and national dignity. The second reason for it to come to this is that we believe that you have done all this with a sense of irreplaceableness, infallibility, self-loathing to opponents and institutions and just the Prime Minister in resignation has demonstrated it, certainly for the hundredth time, disrespect to the Bulgarian Parliament, to the Bulgarian Parliament institution, to what will be said here, to opponents and to his own government, to his own President of Parliament. Here's one of the reasons why I'm proud and complacent. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] You treated your people the same way. [[Applause from BSP LB]] When you didn't hear what kind of questions he was asking you, you thought you were the ones who had to tell him how to live. However, even more strange is your behaviour during the elections and after them. During the elections to frighten that they will stop EU funds, become cataclysm, there will be no electricity, kindergartens, euro money. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] A poor people who can't heal, have no job and no salary, and you're scaring them that this bad could make it worse. And you can't scare him! For this nation expects someone to give him hope, to give him perspective, to give him a way, to bring the state out of this state. And we're taking this assignment. We place it as an assignment to give our people an alternative, but at this moment its wise decision to choose such a head of state awaits appropriate wise behaviour from us politicians because we have two very short-term important tasks, our people pointed them out. The first is to guarantee him peace, security, implementation of the Constitution, a legal and peaceful way to go through this process of resignation of a cabinet and early parliamentary elections. This first task is the issue of the budget. Mr. Valeri Simeonov said it very well. There is no change in the majority in this Parliament. The majority is GERB, Reformist Block and Patriotic Front, which support them. We in this Parliament are opposition and such to the end. This majority long before the elections worked out a budget and tabled it. And we, as always, as opposition, have made our alternative proposals long before the elections. But today we prove to be accomplices to this budget. So we won't support it at first reading, we won't bother you. Face it. This is the budget of this majority, this is the responsibility of this government. Our aim is to fight an alternative to early parliamentary elections, to convince people that we are better, to get their trust and then to manage with our own budget, which will express our successive policies. The second challenge for us to respond to what people told us in the referendum. Dear colleagues, this is the final signal to us. The next one will be fatal to the political class. If we are not wise now, if we have not understood what our people are telling us, this is the end of the political class. Therefore, we urge you to talk wisely, to sit down everyone and to discuss how wise and statesmanly we respond to the will of our people for a change in the political system of Bulgaria so that these people can gain confidence that the institutions in Bulgaria will work for them, that in these places will sit statesmen who will think about them, and that we will all overcome our party interest when it comes to national. Thank you for your attention! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u17	Any lines to Mrs. Ninova? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov, second line, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Ninova, just a week ago from this place, I called on my colleagues to be humble. This is the second time I've called you. You did not win the election as leader of a party and is an illusion, and false statement that BSP was involved in the elections. That's one. Secondly, today, I have written down in detail all of what you have put out, as you have appeared as a hope seller, you have failed to inform the Bulgarian people that a large part of the laws that you claim today to have been wronged, that the people have actually been adopted during the three coalition 2005 - 2009. This is also the case with Decree No 12 under Article 12. 37a, which was adopted with the votes of the DPS and of the BSP - another lie, but some we read. I have my self-esteem and I can look many of the ministers in the eye because I have criticised them openly, but I have criticised them for wanting things to happen faster, as you listened to Valeri Simeonov, but you did not hear the most important thing that the vote was not actually against Tsetska Tsacheva, it was not for Rumen Radev, it was against Boyko Borisov and the mistakes made by him on a purely national psychological basis. I mean, if you vote against my candidate, I give you the right to throw tomatoes and cakes at me, and that's what happened. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So be humble!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u19	Second line, Mr. Markov, third line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u20	You started well at the press conference at the election night, Mrs. Ninova. You've crossed your limits here again. This is why I am furious with the Prime Minister.. not so much that he resigned because of emotional reasons, not so much that he caused this crisis and stopped the path of a successful government, but because he resuscitated BSP. Because of the fact that on the ground your people have already left again as partisans in 1944, when they have already come down, however, the Red Army in the cities because you are already walking with your heads so high in parliament that you can't see the top of your shoes with your peripheral vision. Even Chetin Kazak can't do this thing. [[Noise, lines and laughter in the hall.]] Very soon, in the upcoming elections, you will understand that General Radev is not the real CSKA. The result will be completely different then. Even with your first moves within this Parliament, with the request for the cancellation of the flat tax, you are about to set another record twice with kicks of power when you were in government, you are about to be kicked out of parliament for the third time, and that is when you are in opposition! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u21	Third line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u22	Dear Mrs. Ninova, dear colleagues! It is an extraordinary mistake to believe that the BSP has won these presidential elections. It is an extraordinary mistake to believe that Cornelia Ninova won this election. It's an extraordinary mistake to consider that even Gen. Radev won these presidential elections. It is an exceptional mistake to believe that Georgi Kadiev has won the elections in "Mladost" or party "Normal state" or Desislava Ivancheva "one hairdresser" as Minister Lukarski called it. But can you imagine, Minister Lukarski, how bad you are all, you who are lined up here after a hairdresser crushed you by 65% at 35%?! [[(Noise and lines:) That's not true!]] What happened in these elections, colleagues, is not winning one or another, the cause has returned to politics! People don't trust parties, people don't trust politicians! To them, Peevsky and I are the same. It's unfair, it's untrue, but to them we're all the same! One downer, unfortunately, are the parties! Whether it's a 120-year-old party or a two-week-old party, what's different is the cause. Each of us from now on must find the cause for his party, for his sympathizers, to find the bearers of this cause, as we have found it in "Mladost"; you have found it at national level, and to bring normality back to politics! That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u23	A hole, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u24	Colleagues, unfortunately, your lines show that you didn't understand anything about this election. You haven't learned any lessons, which means you have more hard days ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u25	Don't think about us!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u26	To tell you from personal experience, being able to endure a victory with dignity is very important, but true dignity is evident when you have lost...... if you can bear the loss of it. Well, you couldn't! And now you're showing it. If you want me to repeat it for the tenth time... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u27	Please, no lines!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u28	...the tenth time after election night, I said it just a minute ago. Why did we win? Not alone, but with your people! First, because we gave him a cause, and, secondly, because we showed the wisdom to raise a man [[Applause from BSP LB]] who can stand up for causes. You say it wasn't about BSP, it wasn't about alternative, it was against Boyko Borisov. How many alternatives were there in these elections besides Boyko Borisov? Twenty. Why didn't people choose one of the other 19 but chose Rumen Radev, BSP and Initiative Committee? For a cause and for the dignity of a man plus the power, organization and policies of the party that stood behind him! [[Noise and applause from BSP LB.]] Wisdom in this case, without emphasising my personal contribution, wisdom is to find a way to combine these three things with a cause, a policy, and a person to make it that policy. This is the victory of BSP, Rumen Radev and the Bulgarian people, and it is for the dignity of Bulgaria. We're proud of this victory! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u29	For speech in the order of the currently recorded Mr. Mestan, Mr. Zelenogorski, Mr. Karadayi, Rosen Petrov, Polina Karastoyanova and Mr. Enchev. It's Mr. Mestan's word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of ministers, the limited time we have determined does not allow for a more serious analysis of the heritage that leaves us with this cabinet, nor for the place and role of the only Bulgarian politician elected twice as prime minister in the latest history of Bulgaria. We will limit ourselves to saying that Mr. Boyko Borisov came to power in 2009 with the commitment to the Bulgarian citizens that he will be an alternative to all parties, that he is an alternative to a political status quo. At the beginning of his second term in 2014, he transformed this principle: I am an alternative to all. This overall assessment should be heard. The trouble is that Bulgarian citizens adopted the policy of agreement as a policy of agreement and had why. The sad conclusion about him today can be presented with a maxim, which he claims to be biblical, and which states that there is really nothing worse than the unsolicited good, because the result is that today he is betrayed by all with whom he sought consent, even when they did not deserve it. More important, however, is the question: where is Bulgaria going after these presidential elections? I am opening the clamp to congratulate Mr. Rumen Radev and to express a strong expectation that he will dispel the doubts about the country's geopolitical course, which was raised during his nomination as President of the Initiative Committee, supported by BSP. There is no doubt, however, that the results of the presidential vote, especially those of the referendum, except that they are setting new political realities, are facing a potential political, parliamentary and government crisis. It is a matter of political responsibility to prevent this crisis. It is mainly a matter of political responsibility because of the results of the referendum that the system parties do not participate in a rabid ultrapoulist race. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that early parliamentary elections are inevitable. The question is whether they should be elections for the Forty-four ordinary folk assembly, or whether there is a need for elections for the Grand National Assembly, because Bulgarian politics suffers from systemic vices, some of which have their vivid constitutional dimensions. By the way, a constitutional dimension has two of the three questions to which Bulgarian citizens answered with a response in the referendum. Therefore, our thesis is that political consultations should be started immediately, not on the timing of early parliamentary elections for the Forty-fourth National Assembly, but on the start of consultations for elections for a new Eighth Grand National Assembly, in order to remove all constitutional obstacles to making Bulgaria a modern Euro-Atlantic state. Without that, the road is nowhere, the road is another disappointment from another konnctural majority. I conclude with the conviction that there will not soon be a more favourable environment for seeking consent to hold a Grand National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from the bottom of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u31	Any lines to Mr. Mestan? I won't. The word is Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u32	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, honourable Members! Two years ago, we swore in this Chamber that we would serve our duty to Bulgarian citizens and to the country. I recall what we said two years ago: that the Reformation bloc will not help Bulgaria enter into a political and economic crisis, which would be deepened by new elections and another unstable or caretaker government. We therefore called on not to come to a minority government and gave GERB the courage to fulfil their assigned role as a mandate carrier and to form a stable government. We have given this courage, however, not unconditionally, but against clear guarantees for reforms. I remind you that even then, and now the Reformation bloc did not approve of passive monitoring of governance on the side. Therefore, when forming the government, we qualified as a matter of courage the political figures from the parliamentary parties to commit categorically to the government, without calculating personal or party risk and without political desertion. It was then that we in the Reformation bloc urged the political forces to support the centre-right cabinet with clear political responsibility of the party leaders and under the political declaration for forming the cabinet signatures put everyone, I stress: all the leaders of the parties of the Reformation bloc. The voice of the Reformation Block has always been a voice of calm, mind, respect, and not breaking the rules, long-term thinking. The Reformation Block is the alternative to experiments, adventures, reckless impulsiveness and populism, whether it comes from the left or from the right. The reformist bloc, unlike other political forces, does not run gassy on a closed track, but strives to move a moderate step forward without rushing. In fashion are those who run the fastest and scream the loudest, but decisions in politics are not sprint or yelling, but a marathon. Looking back, albeit slowly, with larks, excruciating, but it is evident that the proposals of the Reformation bloc were finally adopted in the National Assembly and we were making reforms for which we took responsibility. Let me just remind you: we have been a strong factor for the amendments to the Constitution, albeit insufficient; for the adoption of the Law on Judicial Reform; we have adopted the Law on pre-school and school education, which is the basis of educational reform and has not changed, notice, since the 1990s; the changes in health care; in the Law on State Staff and Administration; e-government, e-voting; changes in the Election Code; changes in energy, anti-corruption law. Today, however, on the agenda of the National Assembly, we are voting on the resignation of the cabinet Borisov 2. The reformation bloc will remain consistent in our partnership with the ruling majority and we will not turn away from it, we will support this resignation, but we warn that the state will take an uncertain and dangerous path. Our assessment of this government at least those we support the majority is very positive for both the entire government and our specific ministers. Financial stability. Perhaps the 13-billion-dollar fiscal reserve is the cheese that many political mice hope for, only it will trap and it will be a trap for the whole society, because the long-term financial stability that has been achieved will be put to a huge test with populism, regardless of where it comes from. I would say that our efforts to launch reforms in education, in healthcare, in defence, in the economy, in energy have shown really good results. We have also managed to cope with changes to machine voting, to increase economic growth. It is extremely important for us to ensure that, on the basis of economic growth, incomes are also increased, as well as at the next stage, for relevant constitutional changes. However, the government's resignation should not also mean an end to the possibility of a large majority of GERB, the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front, and I hope other political forces that are for anti-corruption, to make efforts to vote at the end of this parliament at the second reading of the anti-corruption law. People expect this from us, and no one could convince them why we would not want to fight to the end and do our best to control corruption. I stress that the Reformation bloc will support the resignation of the cabinet Borisov. Then we call on the majority, which still exists from the reformist bloc, GERB, the Patriotic Front, to make appropriate consultations and to show the unapproachable political will to adopt the anti-corruption law; to elect the anti-corruption body and to finance its activities through the 2017 budget. However, after our resignation, the tasks remain for the preservation of our Euro-Atlantic orientation, for announcing a clear political vision and deepening its European integration by entering the European Banking Union, banking supervision, the Eurozone waiting room, the European Energy Union and especially Schengen, the quality and security seal, which is key to the interests of the countries and investors. To ensure the rule of law and more constitutional changes with reform of the prosecution and judicial reform; to change in the direction of strategically oriented education in Bulgaria; to ensure economic growth, health reforms and policy on modernization of defence capabilities and security; to maintain a strong voice in the European Union, especially in the context of the coming Presidency, Brexit, migration pressure, our relations with Russia, Turkey with Russia, the United States, maintaining a partnership in the ruling majority will be a really very important environment for the reputation of Bulgaria and the personal security of citizens during these two months. And although I have much to say, I will conclude with the fact that at this moment the Bulgarian politicians need cool blood and pragmatism, not strong emotions, and thought about Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u33	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? I won't. The word is Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing the resignation of the cabinet Boyko Borisov and the consequences of it. The latest events since the presidential elections have put us all in the face of new challenges. The results of the elections, considered by the ruling party as dramatic distrust of government, led to the resignation of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. This result was clear as soon as the cabinet was drawn up. The resignation of the Oresharski cabinet after paid protests was in the name of a smooth transition to stability. It didn't work out. As a result, the most colorful parliament was formed in the democratic history of the country. A strange governing formula was adopted when forming the government, in which the main political entity allowed the establishment of a majority of opposition, the formation of an anti-DPS coalition in the name of some supposedly stable power. This coalition wasn't stable. This coalition couldn't have been stable. This was a coalition of two political formations, one of which in itself is a coalition, supported by an external agreement of the main political entity in two other formations, one of which represents a coalition of populist and frank nationalist parties. [[Full line: Bravo!]] At this moment, the main political force ignored the expressed position of the DPS to support the right-wing government with the only condition that extreme nationalist formations should not participate in it. By the way, Joseph Dol told them that. The thus expressed position of the DPS then, as a result of political maturity, experience and wisdom, is followed consistently by our party throughout this period. Contrary to the public demonstrated by the largest party in parliament's desire to normalise political life, nationalist parties have expanded their influence. Instead of seeking support among the established system parties, it was bet on populist these and rhetoric. Instead of betting on the greatest achievements of democracy and Euro-Atlanticism, it has bet on short-term political interests. As a result, the language of hatred was established by ministers and politicians through the media. Moreover, for the first time, it became daily from the platform of parliament to sound a dominant language of hatred, of xenophobia in the name of cheap populism, in the name of close party interests and political dividends. Hate and xenophobia have also been reflected in the legislation of this Parliament. For the sake of stability in power, the so-called "reformators" and "nationalists" took part. This was not only not stability, on the contrary the stability of the state was put at risk. Therefore, we at the DPS state that this end of the government was intended. The question is, what's next? The answer: many unknown. It is these unknowns that require the answer to the question to be based on careful analysis and sensible solutions through dialogue. Adopting as a fact the criticism of the status quo, to accept the pressure of circumstances and to use the most powerful weapon of unity to build a new architecture of stability and security based on dialogue. This dramatic distrust, read in the results, moves us to the simple obvious. I call on all the politicians responsible for the future of Bulgaria to see these simple obviouss, to stop with the meaningless defensive or offensive speeches, to stop with the language of hatred, to stop with the indication or finding the easy culprit for all the evils. Let us bet on dialogue, on consent, on unity, on togetherness. We need a new public treaty between government and citizens, and let us make it through a new attempt at dialogue between politicians, on the one hand, and between politicians and society, on the other. Let us have this dialogue in the name of stability. Accepting the inevitability of changes, using new challenges wisely and forward-lookingly. At the moment, the most important thing is to show intelligence and achieve unity in the name of national interests. Whether Bulgaria gets positive from the inevitable changes or triggers the spiral of the political crisis depends on us. We call on all nationally responsible political forces for responsible behaviour, for action and effective measures to prevent a political and parliamentary crisis in the country. We note that today, more than ever, we need to be humble, we need to be reasonable and with common action to stop the processes of opposition and creation of dividing lines in the Bulgarian society by separate signs of social, ethnic, religious and others. Today, we must end the destructive processes, whose beginnings we observe, prevent the government crisis from turning into a political crisis, that is, moving the country into early elections with stable institutions. This means, by consensus, setting both the date of early elections and by consensus, adopting a budget that ensures the normal functioning of the state and its economy. Today, the necessary compromise must be made, and then what has been achieved must be implemented uncompromisingly. Fellow Members, if we do this, we can expect a successful organisation of fair and democratic elections. In parallel with this calm situation in the country, stable foreign policy are conditions for prosperity in the country, conditions to take advantage of the historical chance to have a pro-active role in reforming the European Union in view of Bulgaria's presidency in the beginning of 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u35	Any lines to Mr. Karadaye? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u36	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and MPs! At the time, a man whom I very much respect, Alexander Yordanov, once said from this tribune that today is a good day for Bulgarian democracy. I would not say that today is such a beautiful day for our country, but I would say that today is a normal day for Bulgarian democracy. There's nothing more normal than governments and parliament coming and going. What assessment should we give to the government that has ruled the country in the last two years? In our opinion, from the Bulgarian Democratic Center and the People's Union, the successes are more than failures. The first and most importantly, the government achieved relative calmness in the country, financial and bank stability. There was a normal dialogue with business and unions. A pension reform took place with a long-term perspective. The economy showed sustainable growth in 2015 and 2016. Of course, we realize that this growth of the economy was not felt by many of the Bulgarians. For the first time in years, the army has received money for new weapons. For the moment, the immigration crisis has been contained in a relatively urgent manner. A judicial reform was also carried out within this Parliament, as was possible in this Chamber. Against the background of the general geopolitical crisis around us Bulgaria remained calm. So today is really a normal day for Bulgarian democracy. The government is leaving, but there is something about our political development that disturbs us and frightens us. It's not normal to change government every two years. In the last five years, six governments have been replaced, three official governments and three elected in constitutional order. I don't think there's a state and a society that can evolve normally if it starts all over again at two years. Two years can only be a lot for the old barracks, but not for one government. What country can live in the future for two years?! This clearly shows that the current political system reproduces instability and must undergo radical changes. I hope that in the times ahead, the country will not enter the election carousel to the ground. Dear colleagues, the election to a hole usually leads to a fall in the hole. Our economy is neither Italian nor Spanish and will not bear it. Unfortunately, in the face of the dangers outside, our society is once again divided, for which political forces are also to blame. And here, in parliament, as is evident by today's speeches, reason often gives way to populism, and the compound that makes the power to political and personal self-centeredness. If we do not overcome this, if at least the basic, so-called "systemic political forces" do not ensure continuity in national tasks and objectives, there is nothing good waiting for us. I wish success and health to all of you and God to protect Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from BDZ-NS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines, fellow Members? I won't. To speak, the people representative Polina Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u38	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, honourable Members! Beyond political opposition and party talk, there may be a minute for words of ethics and correctness today. In the portfolio committees on culture and media, on which I had the honour to be president and on economic policy and tourism, as vice-president, we worked closely with two ministers with Minister Vecdi Rashidov and Minister Nikolina Angelkova. I am convinced of the efforts they have made to solve the problems and to develop in a positive direction of opportunities in every field. It is good to know that culture is our national wealth and tourism is the most influential platform on which this national wealth can be presented to the world. Therefore, both culture and tourism cannot be placed in the narrow frames of party and even political governance. They only need the unconditional support of the state, of the government, of the Bulgarian Parliament, of all of us. Therefore, allow me to express my respect for their work and to appreciate these efforts, which, in personal terms, sometimes have a very high, unjustly high price, from personal experience, I can confirm. Dear Members, honourable ministers, I hope that in the next government, the ministers of culture and tourism will continue and build on what you have done. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karastoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Svetoslav Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! We're in a critical situation, I'd even say explosive. GERB demanded and turned the presidential elections into a vote of confidence in their governance and the results of the elections held clearly show the answer to this question. The inadequate reaction of the main ruling force puts the country facing a political crisis with a difficult predictable outcome and consequences. Our evaluation of the cabinet. We expressed our assessment of the cabinet as early as May this year, when we withdrew our support for governance. We did so with a clear idea and awareness that for a year and a half the ABB Parliamentary Group, the Political Party ABB achieved solid results in a number of areas. The pension and the justice system are a small part of them. The lack of dialogue and partnership with the party, however, was definitely not the worst problem, but rather the lack of efficiency in the work of the cabinet. And here we resonate the question: how good is the cabinet for Bulgaria, how much is it working and how much is it solving the problems of citizens and society? We have repeatedly signalled about the errors in the work of a number of ministers - defence, home affairs, economics, foreign affairs and so on. Presidential elections. Today we are commenting on the cabinet's resignation immediately after the presidential elections. Several are the main reasons for the results, and it must undoubtedly be noted that the political parties went to presidential elections against the GERB model of a Head of State. Why? Because, first of all, Mr. Plevneliev led to a serious delict of the presidential institution. Secondly, the President failed to ensure the functionality of his duties provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely to form the course of the state. Here, however, the question rightly arises: should the state and political stability be hostage to the election results? In the current situation, ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to achieve, without any delay, a minimum agreement on several key issues: early parliamentary elections, changes in electoral legislation and next year's budget. It is important to discuss what is coming next and how we will deal with irreversible things. The resignation is irreversibly filed. Maybe the early parliamentary elections are irreversible. We need not a time of unification, but a new strategic coalition project. The search for a wider coalition is a tactically justified necessity. The mind dictates that these issues should also be seriously considered within the legitimate institutions of the Parliament and the President. ABB's position is that within this Parliament, the possibilities for changes in electoral legislation are exhausted from both the perspective of time and the credit of trust. Moreover, when it comes to such radical changes as the introduction of a new electoral system, let us note that if political agreement is reached, we at ABB tend to support a mixed electoral system. Our position is that the new Parliament must address the issue of changes in electoral legislation and assess the need to convene a Grand National Assembly. We must, in the meantime, ensure the necessary financial, economic, social and political stability as we provide for an ongoing budget regime at the end and beginning of the new year, and leave the new Parliament and government with the opportunity to adopt a new budget. ABB is able to prepare an option for a new Constitution and to participate in consultations on this issue. No doubt the Bulgarian voter wants and expects radical change above all in the political model, state and institutions. Such a change can only be guaranteed through a Grand National Assembly and a new Constitution. The electoral system, the compulsory voting, the financing of the parties and so on are part of the tools to achieve such a change. In conclusion, the ABB will support the deposited resignation of the Borisov cabinet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Radan Kanev. Mr. Kanev is the last to be recorded, if there are any other candidates, please let me know in due course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u42	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I don't know if we're all aware of this, but we are entering the fifth year of political crisis in Bulgaria without clear prospects to emerge from this political crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u43	You did what you could.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u44	It's okay... [[Noise and lines.]] I knew this was gonna get noisy, but I think I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u45	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u46	This crisis is due to the same problem in various governments. By the way, different both in political orientation and in quality of political activity. The problem is not of an economic nature. I would like to draw attention to the fact that three governments have already, together with today's resignation, left power in conditions of favorable economic situation and a decent response to economic challenges. No one can deny the government, which today goes away, that in the given demographic and international environment, it has achieved optimally good levels of economic growth. [[Loud shouts: "Eee!"]] We all assume that governments leave for economic reasons, but if we go back to economic dynamics at the end of the cabinet Kostov or at the end of the cabinet Saxe-Coburg, we will think of two other prime ministers who have suffered severe political losses after dealing with economic problems. It's another reason. In all three cases, by the way, it is the systematic placing of party interest in the national interest in the management of the state, both with regard to the control of justice and the judiciary, where the undisputed national interest is independence of the judiciary, the undisputed party interest is party control. With regard to the administration, where the undisputed national interest is small, economical, politically independent administration, the undisputed party interest is large, bloated, politically dependent administration. Regarding the spending of European funds, which systematically with more than one government, we should not throw everyone to the last cabinet, are spent in the interest of the ruling party in favour of the mayors and ministers of the ruling party. But above all, and here I would like to draw attention to something new that we rarely talk about, but it is much more important than anything else, to the absurd centralisation of all these systems, the financial, justice, administrative, public spending and European funds, the focus in the name of strengthening the party power of all powers in the state in one hand, whether it is the prosecution, whether it is public finances or public administration. This causes the wave of discontent, no matter how the economy goes. So people don't appreciate what they've achieved because people see what they've built, but people see two other things. And again, I say in much more than one government. It is not the moment that attacked the government of GERB, which attacked, which is not, it is too late to attack. This is not the time. This is not the time. Now is the time to talk about the possible outcome of this political crisis. Since all these problems that I have outlined have also been clear from previous management failures, it is no coincidence that three years ago I proposed a preliminary agreement for a short term of government and a Grand National Assembly. Two-year term and elections for the Grand National Assembly and for President two-in-one. If we had shook hands then, today Bulgaria would have a right-wing president and a elected Grand National Assembly with a right-wing majority. Now we have a short term again, we are talking about a Grand National Assembly, but not by reason of a reasonable political consensus, but by virtue of political stubbornness, strife and ultimately a populist left wave that swept away both governance and the chances of deepening reforms. We need to be aware of that, too. The other option, in order to get at least formally out of the political crisis, was to restrain this government for four years to hold on because it is a formal sign of the lack of political crisis. That was possible. However, once again, and here I will be sharp towards you, colleagues from GERB, once again you have put the party before the state. Because in a severe election loss, if you assess it as severe, I do not interfere with your assessment, resign the party leader and the chief of staff, not the prime minister and the government. This is the case in most democratic countries. The Prime Minister bears his responsibility until the end of the term of office, as happened with the.... platform.............................................................................................. And they lost the elections, but Poland is not in political crisis unlike Bulgaria today. In the situation in which we are both in, the possible outcome of the political crisis, colleagues, is only one, and it is to get out of our heads, especially to you, colleagues from the left, and colleagues from the Patriotic Front, to kill ourselves from our heads the opportunity to continue the populist campaign for the presidential elections in a continuous campaign for parliamentary elections, to abuse the state budget for populist purposes, to abuse the results of the referendum for populist purposes. There must be a clear agreement. I would suggest that this clear consent be for the general support of this budget. It is clear that any next majority can update it and will most likely update it, but why stop the increase in teachers' salaries, why stop the barely left and too thrifty pension reform without any other reason why stop the effort to modernize the army? With regard to the electoral system. It's absurd to have early elections in the old system. Other parties that are not in this room today will hold the majority in this case. And I don't think it's gonna be for the good of the country. Of course there must be changes. In the same way, there should be changes in party funding. There must be a national agreement when to hold the elections for a Grand National Assembly, because this Parliament with a caretaker government cannot prepare the mandatory Constitutional project to reach a Grand National Assembly. There must be a national road map, a plan when these problems will be solved. Last but not least, with this I will finish.. there should be a clear national agreement on what it is doing from now on in the coming months, year Bulgaria as a member of the North Atlantic Pact. It's hard to think about the campaign. The mutual attacks and infatuations of the candidates in populism raised serious doubts about how serious and responsible a NATO member Bulgaria is, how much Bulgaria relies on NATO for its national security and what Bulgaria will do about the President, the government, parliament to receive these guarantees for national security. There must be a clear consensus in which the newly elected president will be an important element and not just in words to support Bulgaria's membership in NATO, but for concrete steps.. subject of national agreement, which will be taken to attach this membership and the corresponding protection of Bulgarian national security and strategic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am last spoken by the GERB Parliamentary Group because I just wanted to hear absolutely all the parliamentary groups, and I think this is the most responsible for the strongest parliamentary group. We remember very well periods in which we did not speak in Parliament. In 2014, there were extraordinary parliamentary elections. They were carried out and our people arranged for us to be in this configuration, which we are in today's "eight parliamentary groups represented." Then the most irresponsible would be if the largest parliamentary group "GERB," with its leader Mr. Borisov returned the management mandate. Perhaps from purely political conjunctures it was probably best to return and participate again in early parliamentary elections. That wasn't a solution. The country was bad and we all knew what the challenge was to all who had to be in the forty-third parliament. There was a very difficult consultation back then. There was even an inability in the initial stage of these negotiations to form a government. I remember during these consultations Prime Minister Borisov said that the party will be more negative, but we should think only and only guided by national interests. So we compromised to form a government. We believed in the loyalty of all the parliamentary groups that we formed the parliamentary majority. Unfortunately, we didn't get what we expected. This loyalty was expressed only in the fact that support is given but subject to certain conditions. GERB always retreated because we were guided only by national interests. This was proven in the negotiation process when the relevant ministers had to be nominated for the relevant sectoral policies. Dear friends, GERB suffered the greatest inconvenience because both the Prime Minister and all the ministers and part of the parliamentary group, all our structures constantly asked the question: why do we have such distribution of ministerial positions, and this does not correspond to electoral public support? That's why we were building a negative. The prime minister is a true statesman and when he formed the government, we took into account all the main priorities of the parliamentary groups that we formed the parliamentary majority. I would like to tell the honourable Mr. Radan Kanev, who announced his thesis. Let me just remind you that if we were loyal in our intentions and respected what we had agreed in 2014, today we, the MPs who support the government, should have been much more, because in this negotiation process Radan Kanev played a major role. He gave support to all ministers of the Reformation bloc and at the beginning he gave this support. Dear Members of Parliament, let us be objective when we talk about issues related to taking responsibility. No one in the parliamentary group violated discipline in order to support every single sectoral policy of each minister in the different parliamentary groups. We knew that we had to be guided only by national interests and find this balance that would enable us to manage. The result is very visible today.. we have stability and we have always worked for this stability. Today, however, we do not have the opportunity to stand before all our Bulgarian voters and say that this stability can continue. Today the conditions are completely different. There's been a presidential election. Yes, they have no direct bearing on parliamentary elections or on today's governance. Let's remember GERB in 2014 after Plamen Oresharski's two-year reign with the strange parliamentary majority and the eternal friendship between BSP and DPS showed up in these elections. Dear friends, let me remind you that the Political Party GERB is the only party in the years of transition that has not been subject to the interests of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Let me also remind that the Political Party GERB is the only political party that raised a candidate for president in 2011, which did not receive support from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because we always thought that when a president was elected, he should be president of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their education, regardless of their ethnicity, regardless of their gender. We've done this, we've done this during this campaign. When we stand before the voters, it's better to tell the truth. It's a lot easier to say things that aren't true. It is much easier to get into populism and talk about what our partners have done, with which we form the parliamentary majority. When we talk about elections and public support, which is given one choice, we should still make an arithmetic sum of parties that form the parliamentary majority. To recall that when we formed the government Boyko Borisov 2, we had public support from voters by over 1 million. Six hundred thousand. the voice. These were the parliamentary groups of GERB, the Patriotic Front and the Reformation Block. They were joined in the negotiation process by the support of the ABB with another 160 thousand votes. This support during the mandate was incorrect, but the ABB left the executive power. I would also like to stress here that there was a politician from the Reformation Block who had not been thinking about Bulgaria's interests all the time, he did not think about the interests of how we should really have laws, have a programme to implement, and all the time he was trying to implement his personal political project. Believe me, never on any occasion. [[Bourney applause from GERB]] Political party GERB did not stand up and was not against the Reformation bloc. I would like to give another additional reference regarding the electoral support that the parties forming the parliamentary majority have received. These are GERB, the Patriotic Front, and the Reformation Block without Radan Kanev and those who could count on some electoral support, and again we received over 1 million. Six hundred thousand. the voice. It was normal and lawful to continue the country's governance together when we had real loyal support between the first and second rounds. Colleagues, we cannot be loyal and strictly fulfill the commitments made and in the electoral process between the first and second round you can go out and say that you will give 300 leva. pension or at the end of the election campaign on the first round... Believe me, this cannot be realized today, nor could anyone form a parliamentary majority to be adopted. Nobody explained where that money would come from, and that would have been a burden to the state by 1.5 billion. BGN, which would further weigh on the current deficit, which there is at the National Insurance Institute, and that is 4.5 billion. And what is also being seen at the moment is what BSP suggests to have progressive taxation and to remove what they introduced the tax rate, just five or six years ago. This is what we should do in politics and when we stand before the voters, when we stand before the parliamentary stand and be sincere, and GERB knows that he must be sincere to the voters. And that is why, as now and in the future, as we have done so far, we will always stand with our heads held high, because, believe me, you can't do politics if you don't follow what you've drawn up as management policy. The management program, which GERB had, was agreed with all parties that formed the parliamentary majority. Yeah, there were differences. They will continue to exist from now on, but we must look for this contact point that can unite us, not the one that can separate us. This division does not win any party, nor does the Bulgarian society win. When we talked about how to change and how to adopt the Election Code, then everyone put their arguments out. Then we were once again the most loyal in the forming parties in the parliamentary majority. Everyone forgot that we waited for the Reformation Block and the Patriotic Front to give us their decision on how to make the election sections abroad. And GERB suffered this negative because we bet the stability of the country and all these management programs, which are being implemented at the moment by the Bulgarian ministers. And when we want to go to elections, I think that we should really do, when we have exhausted any possibility of mutual trust and that loyalty that we have always insisted on being, believe me, there is no way you can make management policy when everyone wants to make a political dividend on a foreign back. We don't want to be involved in these scenarios. We want to be open, honest, and let us, when we go to the early parliamentary elections, that each of the parliamentary groups can actually participate as the Bulgarian voter ordered us, so we will reunite in the forty-fourth parliament. But then, believe me, it won't be any different than what we have today. This diversity will be there from now on, and every next government will be a coalition, because today more than ever, society wants to have dynamics and they will ask us the formula of the management mandates to be implemented. Therefore, despite differences, we must search for intersections and unite only with national interest. And this is my call to the BSP left Bulgaria, which today in the conversation and in what they did as an exhibition by their chairman I think that for this emotion about this convincing victory, do not be fooled. It's just that there are no winners in this election. The winners of these elections are only somewhat the Patriotic Front and, of course, the new political future entity that will appear, this is Veselin Mareshki's. And therefore, dear MPs, let us be real, let us be realistic and prepare ourselves so that we can actually present the best, let people not be misled, let them not be made another suggestion about certain messiahs and certain policies that will enter, because they will not be able to actually be fulfilled, but we will all have to bear the political responsibility for what we have to do in the future. So I hope that everyone will have enough sense and the new budget proposed for 2017, my request is that we really, if we unite, accept it. And what was done just two days ago at an extraordinary chairmanship council all the representatives of all the parliamentary groups said: "Let the budget be watched!" The responsibility that the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, has taken over is to actually not withdraw the budget, given that the government is resigned, but once again we are guided only by giving security to the business, giving security to the citizens and giving security to the future development of the country in parameters that are eligible in today's economic and complex states in which we work and what is reality both in the economy and in security. The challenges ahead of us, believe me, are much greater than what we talked about in this election campaign. And you will see that when we enter the Forty-fourth Parliament, everyone will analyze and say: "Yes, we have made a mistake that we have wasted valuable time to make elections and again manage GERB with a coalition with these parties, with which we will be able to formulate the parliamentary majority. Believe that today, more than ever, an alternative to what we have had so far, there is really no alternative to what the BSP left Bulgaria is offering, I am convinced that the Bulgarian voters will categorically say: "No, because their memories are recent and they know very well what they were doing and how they managed in all their mandates BSP with their respective coalition partners. However, we were sincere, we stood before the people, the ministers gave their transparency in their management policies, and I am convinced that this will be appreciated in dignity and in the next early parliamentary elections, which I believe people will really make the right, wise decision only because of the interest of Bulgaria and not by what we like to hear or what we expect to hear, but we still need to know that it is not feasible in the way it is proposed and burdened the budget and is indebted to the state for generations ahead. I do not want a political party GERB to participate and we have stated it very strongly that we will not participate in such a populist scenario! [[Applause from GERB.]] We'll be honest! We'll be honest! We will offer a management program and we will have a clear position as for Crimea, as for sanctions that are against Russia and will by no means play with fears and we will not violate this good communication that should be built with all the countries around the world, but we still need to know that Bulgaria is part of a strong, united Europe and that its main strategic partner these are the United States. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u49	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, in your long speech you, with undisclosed pride and complacency, stressed the fact that GERB was never subject to the DPS. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I don't know what this complacency is about. [[Laughter and raging on the left.]] GERB may never have been together with the DPS, but DPS has always been involved in the management of the state, Bulgaria has been moving forward. [[Comments and calls from GERB: "Eee! "]] No party has been subjected to the DPS. The DPS has always been a loyal coalition partner in the government along with the NDSV, which has spent its entire term. In the triple coalition together with the NDSV and BSP, which government has spent its entire term! And the DPS has made Bulgaria complete its Euro-Atlantic project, become a full member of NATO and the European Union. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I do not know if the NDSV and BSP can agree with you that they were once subject to the DPS. On the contrary, we were together then digging up Bulgaria's European present and future, and you, your main mistake, of GERB, are that you became subject for the first time to anti-systemic political forces that make up the Patriot Front. Your main mistake was that you opened wide doors and legitimized populism, ultimate nationalism and the antisystemic orientation that you introduced into the management of European Bulgaria for the first time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's where your main mistake is. That's why you failed. This is why for the second time GERB cannot pass its mandate to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. I gave you a sign. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u52	But I hope you learned from these mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u53	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov. The band doesn't have time? Within a minute. [[Noise and lines.]] Your parliamentary group is running out of time, I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines.]] Second line? Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u54	Personally, I'm getting out. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I feel a little offended, not for anything else, but because I was raised by my parents during communism. All I've been able to accomplish is because these people have taken care of me. Good, bad, they're retired, and I owe them my respect. One of them died a long time ago. These people have no income other than pension and rely, and enjoy two, five, 10, 20, 100 BGN. The main question every time my mother sees me is, "How much will you raise our pensions?" Of course, she might want to double it, another might want it tripled, but what Mr. Karakachanov suggested in the election campaign was to be one lev above the minimum poverty threshold that he is currently. I take it that's impossible for you. I accept that on the day the Prime Minister comes out and says: "We have more than three billion collected from the fight against smuggling. " I thought the other budget was allocated. It goes both for pensions, and for all other social payments, for the state to function. That three billion is on top of it. There is a report from the Ministry of Finance that the biggest problem with fuel imports as risky goods is the oil, which was a billion and 200. These were the missed revenue in the budget. We must make an effort to bring them together. At 3 billion, with another billion and 200 of these fuels, at 4 billion you could at least promise these pensioners to raise their pensions with a little bit. Say, "We'll give a whole Christmas, we'll give an entire Easter. We can't do it 300. I take it your readings show something else. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But you could have set aside 100, 200, 300, 400 million for the pensioners. You figured you didn't have to do it. On election night Mr. Karakachanov said:... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Allow me 30 seconds. ...take a message to the pensioners. You could have promised them, not said, "When the economy starts." In the other life, this will not happen to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u55	Third line? A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kazak, we need to be objective "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" has been involved in all the processes that have happened in the last 27 years "both for the European orientation for our country's entry into the European Union and also for NATO." When you were involved in power, there was a feeling in society, and maybe that was what your coalition partners formed for you, but when we first entered the executive power, people wanted us to participate without the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There was an accumulated negative to both DPS and to BSP left Bulgaria. What we did in the first term is to actually restore Europe's trust in Bulgaria, to hear the strong voice, and this was done with dignity and the Prime Minister. You know that we have been extremely responsible and we have hoped that whenever there are national causes, they will be supported by all the parliamentary groups, no matter who belongs to which political family in Europe. I would like to admit that in the forty-third parliament there have been few cases in which you, together with the BSP left Bulgaria, have formed a majority, and qualified in order to achieve decisions that are important to the state, the Chief Judicial Inspector; let us also recall the constitutional changes; let us also recall the Strategy for Reform of the Judicial System, which has been supported a lot by the respected by me Radan Kanev. You all know what always remained with a feeling is that the DPS, when it does not support a candidate for president, can not be elected. I set an example only with the choice of Rosen Plevneliev. I can say right now: let's be tolerant of each other. Everyone execute their own management program, everyone defend their own cause. But it is extremely important to me that every party should be given what is deserved, but not given today in the Bulgarian Parliament, but will be given by historians for everything that has happened during this 27-year transition. I'm sorry if I've offended you in some form, but I'm telling you what it feels like to people, and we respect what our constituents are telling us across the country. As for the line that my esteemed Emil Dimitrov made, I can tell him the following. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] However, let us recall that in those two years the Council of Ministers provided over 200 million. BGN to be able to support the lowest pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners because they really deserve more pensions. Everyone knows that our parents should get what they've earned in their work experience. But let us remember why it came to this huge deficit and all that is in the pension reform. Let's remember the managements of BSP left Bulgaria and in the years of the transition you know what happened in 1995, 1996. [[Noise and lines.]] I believe that this is an inheritance which has also reflected at present for all these Bulgarian pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Personal explanation, Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u58	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Tsvetanov! I'm sorry, I didn't have to be told my name four times in this spirit of constructiveness, so there's no reason to be dissatisfied now. I understand the accusations, Mr. Tsvetanov, but I would like to draw attention to a difficult fact for me. Neither do we have 800,000 votes that you lost the second round with, at least for now, nor do we have the number of MPs that determine the majority in parliament. Long before our paths separated, you were pleased to demonstrate the opportunity to build many different parliamentary majorities to circumvent the promised reforms. So it's not my fault here, it's not our fault! It is precisely in the desire to surround these reforms. If GERB is now separated from the government, it is because he deliberately refused to break the queue.. fat pig tail, something that we have been explaining to you all along that it must be done in the name of the good of the state, in the name of the right majority, which Bulgaria has always needed and will always need. And this completely unnecessary fixation in me, Mr. Tsvetanov, is not evidently due to our political power, I say again, unfortunately, but it is due to the fact that during this entire period, and when we walked together, and when we parted, I had the freedom and complete personal independence to tell this truth in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-16.u59	Any other MPs wishing to speak from the parliamentary groups who have time? There aren't any. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Project! DECISION adopting the resignation of the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 111, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He accepted the resignation of the Council of Ministers. Voting mode! Vote 220 MPs: for 218, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. This should end the work of our plenary sitting today. I recall tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
