ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the extraordinary plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with the order of Mr. Glauchev No 650-05-4 on 9 November this year, the extraordinary plenary session has been convened for today. Recalling the agenda of the sitting: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers: Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 2. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 Importer: Communications Regulation Commission. 3. Annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services. "Analysis on the market of postal services 2015.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importer: Communications Regulation Commission. 4. Second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. Adopted on 14 July 2016 in the first vote. 5. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2014 and Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2015. Importer: Commission for Protection of Competition. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal. Importers: Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Willi Lilkov. I recall, this is Mr. Glauchev's order, and it's not up for a vote. Dear Members of Parliament, at yesterday's extraordinary Chairmanial Council with representatives of all parliamentary groups, we have arranged for tomorrow's regular plenary session to begin at 14:00 instead of at the usual time of 9:00 in order to allow some of the committees that have scheduled meetings to discuss the budgets for first reading to be held by noon. I am making a procedural proposal to vote on this clarification, which I inform you that we have made to the Conference of Presidents. Before that, is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote tomorrow's plenary session instead of 9:00 p.m. starting at 2:00 p.m. Vote 204 MPs: 191 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. A few messages. On 4 November 2016 with entry No. AD-603-16-22 from the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly received information about the state of the government debt of the Republic of Bulgaria at the end of the third quarter of 2016. The information is provided to the National Assembly in accordance with the Decision of the Council for Development at the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. By letter the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. On 9 November 2016 a letter was received from the members of the Supreme Judicial Council Ms. Sonya Naydenova and Mr. Kalin Kalpakchiev with a request from them to be granted the same to the MPs in view of their powers under art. 312, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. By letter, the material was sent to the chairmen and co-chairs of the parliamentary groups and the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is provided to all MPs of their e-mails and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 11 November this year the National Assembly received opinions from the Fiscal Council on the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. By letters the materials are provided to all permanent committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of Parliament. They are available electronically on the website of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria. On 14 November this year, the National Assembly received a Plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 for information adopted by Decision No 965 of the Council of Ministers. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the chairmen and co-chairmen of the parliamentary groups, the presidents of the Standing Committees and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Last communication: the National Statistical Institute has received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on: average monthly salary and list of employees in employment and employment for the third quarter of 2016; consumer price indices for October 2016; main results of labour force monitoring in the third quarter of this year. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Mihov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u2	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is to drop two items off the agenda. That's t. 2 et c. 3, namely Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission; Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services, importer: Communications Regulation Commission, and my reasons are the following. Two weeks ago, in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, we adopted these two reports. Then the President of the Commission Mr. Bozhkov was abroad. We postponed the Commission once or twice. Unfortunately, he didn't show up. Today we had another meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We accepted the Commission's budget for 2017. Mr. Bozhkov was also missing. Today we will have to look at last year's annual report in the National Assembly. Mr. Bozhkov, unfortunately, unless he's back from abroad, he'll be gone, too. I personally take this as disrespect to the people's representation, a number of cases in a row when the President is to present the Report and the budget for next year, to be absent by disrespecting either the Commission or the National Assembly. I propose that the procedure will drop the points until Mr. Bozhkov returns from abroad or wherever he is to appear in the Commission and then look at the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u3	A reverse opinion? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u4	Thank you, Madam President. My reverse proposal is that point 4 should be added to points 2 and 3. I share what Mr. Mihov said, he is right, but I hope that my proposal will also be shared, which I am doing further in the form of a reverse opinion because of that. 4 is an extremely important bill which cannot be adopted in this way at an extraordinary meeting. [[Reply at GERB.]] Because it's an important law! That's why, Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u5	Why Karayancheva?! I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u6	Thirdly, it is better to examine the Commission's report on competition. You know there are committees of inquiry set up in this direction. It is much more important to hear these reports, to see what is happening in this Commission. My proposal, Madam President, is to drop points 2 and 3. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u7	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have essentially made a new proposal. This is not the opposite opinion of Mr. Mihov, which is why your new proposal to drop the item. 4 - Second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill, I am giving the opportunity for a reverse opinion. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer to keep it that way. 4. It is untenable that Mr. Bayraktarov's claim that it is not right for a bill at second reading to be viewed at an extraordinary meeting. This is the first time we've had so many in the room over 190! Moreover, this bill is at second reading, which we have been unable to complete for two months. I do not know what the motives of Mr. Bajraktarov are, but this is a bill for transposition of a European directive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u9	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u10	We also received a letter the other day that we did not transpose the directive in time. Another question is that there are lobbying proposals made by Mr. Bajraktarov, which aim to preserve certain rights of a professional organization at the expense of deprivation of the State Commission of rights. That's exactly what the debate is in this room. Therefore, my proposal, Madam President, is, and I am making a new proposal if the reports referred to in points 2 and 3 remain to be seen, that is to say. 4 to become t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u11	In essence, we have three proposals. First is Mr. Mihov's proposal for dropping from the current agenda points 2 and 3, namely the annual reports of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 and............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We are voting on Mr. Mihov's proposal. Vote 172 MPs: 123 against 36, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. A proposal came from Mr. Bajraktarov t. 4 which is now becoming t. 2 should also be postponed. This is the Second Voting of the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Please vote. Vote 172 MPs: 21, against 121, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. This point becomes t. 2, and respectively points 5 and 6 become points 3 and 4. Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are proposing to change the agenda and to drop the item. 6. As the last few months have proven, it is infinitely inappropriate in our view.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u13	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a reverse offer. I was actually hoping Mr. Zablyanov would propose a t. 6 to go further so that we can finally look at this Bill, which we all agreed together last week to be on the agenda, but there was no time left anyway. It is natural that I am proposing back to his desire to drop this important point. I call on you to vote against. I hope we're efficient and able to exhaust the entire agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u15	Voting mode. Vote 167 MPs: 62 against 90 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm asking for a re-vote. Don't you understand the outcome of the election? [[Laughter and shout at GERB.]] Don't you understand how much support there is in society for this proposal? Six percent! Six percent of the colleagues, where they brought it in. Don't you understand what the public outcome, effect and response of this thing is?! I really don't get it. We're proposing to take one question off the agenda. [[SIGHS IN GERB]] which has a divisive effect on the whole of society. What do you want this thing to go on?! I can't understand your motivation! Come on, before the elections, I understand my colleagues from the Reformation Block. I can get into that logic and even accept it, but now! We've checked the case, we've seen what it looks like in society, how much it works. There are direct witnesses and participants in this work. Let's think about it today with another brain!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u17	It's a re-vote. Vote 158 MPs: 64 against 90 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. Point one for today is: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CRITICAL CODEX. Report of the Commission for a second vote.. Mr. Kirilov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On 8 October 2015, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 24 February 2016. The Criminal Code is amended and supplemented by the Criminal Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u19	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law, supported entirely by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u20	Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 4 after the word "red" shall be added either in the order of art. 69a of the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u21	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u22	Proposal from the MPs Atanas Atanasov and Ivan Ivanov: Paragraph one, drop it. In the current text of art. 78a, para. 6 in the first sentence after the word "the court" the words "the court" shall be replaced by "the court may release it." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u23	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Atanas Atanasov and Ivan Ivanov - the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 107 MPs: for 7, against 70, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 1 by importer, which becomes § 2. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u24	Proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 2 after the words................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u25	Statements? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't mean to speak, I think our proposal is quite clear and understandable. However, I must admit, after what I heard earlier today on the left and this behavior, I think we need to say some things. We all know that right now in the Penal Code there is an imperative ban under the fear of criminal liability for persons or a person who has allowed himself to desecrate or defile in any way the flag, anthem and crest of the Republic of Bulgaria. What we propose with colleague Metodi Andreev is that this norm should be extended and if any person allows himself to abuse or step on a particular party rally, the flag of either the Republic of Bulgaria or the European Union, or, of course, the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union, to bear the same criminal responsibility. I am genuinely worried you see, behind me is the flag of the European Union after the speeches I heard this morning, really not to have absurd behaviors, including in the Chamber, of people who did just that a few months ago at party events We propose to record it and make it clear the pro-European orientation of our country. I regret that there are one or two Members left on the left of this House, and I very much hope that they will vote in favour of this proposal at least. For me, it is clearly distinguishable whether a person, being from the Socialist Party, is called a modern European socialist, or, unfortunately, has remained to the core of his soul a post-communist or even an honest communist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u27	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u28	Madam President, honourable Members, I find it a little strange that we should plead for this text. We are a parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria.. a member of the European Union. The European Union, with its structural funds, transformed Bulgaria to a large extent with the tendency to become a normal European state. That is, if we reject this text, it turns out that we are not sincere in our desire to be in the European Union. It is no secret that the symbols of the European Union in Bulgaria are subject to defamation. Unfortunately, here I see the socialist party people, usually at their gatherings, allowing themselves to wave a Russian flag and trample on the flag of the European Union. I ask them: What Europeans are you, Socialist gentlemen, when now you have to protect the symbols of Europe, the European flag, the European anthem? Otherwise, it's very easy to talk about unification. When we can't even unite where to be, whether to be in Europe or Eurasia, I have to tell you that society is heavily divided. I call not GERB, not the Reformation Bloc, not patriots, not ABB and BSP, and the Bulgarian Democratic Center - I call on all Bulgarian MPs to show that we are also European MPs because, first, we are Bulgarian, but then we are European. It is high time that the defamation that allows different political forces and then distinguishes themselves that they did not want it, but you see, their sympathizers could not be controlled on this thing to punish it by law. If we do not confirm this now, we practically denounce all the Bulgarian citizens' hopes, reject them and prove to the whole of Europe that we are not a European Parliament. Maybe some other parliament?! I believe that here we will show how we can unite behind our belief that we should be apart from Bulgarian and European citizens. I call on all Members of the National Assembly, including those of the BSP, who are not at the moment, to enter and vote, otherwise I will have the grave doubt that they do not want to be European citizens. Maybe they want to be Eurasian?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u29	- What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't either. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 3 with content on the proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Vote 110 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote. Here were two speeches in which colleagues addressed a particular parliamentary group, while at the same time another parliamentary group, a coalition partner of the speakers, seemed to confuse the vote. I am making a procedural proposal for revoting and I hope Mr. Metodi Andreev will appeal to this parliamentary group to vote properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u31	It's a re-vote. They voted 106 MPs: 97 against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u32	Thank you, Madam President. According to § 2 of the report a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 325 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: When the act under para. 1 or 2 is carried out when driving a motor vehicle, the penalty is: under para. 1 "Incarceration up to three years and incarceration under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7th para. 2 "Incarceration up to five years and incarceration under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following points are inserted after point 3 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1-3
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 2 which, after an amendment by the Commission, becomes § 4. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u34	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 3 of the report and shall propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), Criminal proceedings shall be terminated if the victim so requests: 1. for crimes under para. point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. for crimes under para. 1 point (b) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u35	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer and edited by the Commission to § 3, which becomes § 5. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u36	According to § 4 of the report there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is In the case of driving a motor vehicle in a populated area, the maximum permitted speed of more than 60 km/h established in the proper order shall be punishable by imprisonment for up to three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u37	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to take a position on this paragraph, as really high speed is one of the biggest problems for road safety. I have always argued that speeding penalties should be as high and as heavy as possible, but what we are being offered at the moment, when driving more than 60 kilometers under urban conditions, is being punished by imprisonment for up to three years, honourable Members of the National Assembly, seems rather far-reaching! Not because there should be no great punishment for these intruders, but I question, first, the proving of this violation. This will create major problems both in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, which need to prove such a thing and the people themselves who will be accused of such a crime. I'll give you only two examples in Sofia. The limit of the Eagle Bridge is 50 km/h. After 2200 hours, the light lights up a yellow signal. The speed allowed through the entire Tsarigradsko shose is 80 km/h and 20 m before the Eagle Bridge is 50 km/h, i.e. you, passing 110 km, should automatically be stopped at the next intersection and put in jail. There are many such cameras and many such places where traffic lights, speed limits do not correspond precisely to the speed that allows the road. It's the same case with boulevard. "Javorov" of the TV tower. There's a limit of 50 km/h. It's a 4-way boulevard, 50 km limit. When there's no movement, people are calmly driving at a higher speed than that. If someone accidentally exceeds that speed at 60 kilometers, we have to put them in jail. My suggestion is that this paragraph should not be accepted, or if accepted, that this speed should be increased from 60 km, I do not know how much, but believe me, first we do not have an analysis of how many violations we have at this speed. If there is someone here from the Ministry of Interior who can tell how many drivers have been sanctioned for such speed and how this would affect the public, I am willing to accept any arguments. I call on you not to support this text at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, the original proposal was for the entire road network. The idea of my proposal is that under urban conditions there is an opportunity for a more frequent occurrence of risk situations and indeed at this speed drivers would not react adequately. So this is the softer option than the original proposal, but since most of the accidents happen in the urban environment, there are the problems of pedestrian paths, people hit, which is also the biggest scourge I think for children. Kids, you know they move in urban conditions, not on the other road network. I think the proposal is appropriate and it is high time, indeed, that, as in many European countries, the measures taken in terms of speeding should be strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The second line is the People's Representative Nastimir Ananiev, and the third one is the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, 60 km apart from the limit! This means that in the city 20 km in residential complexes, and 50 km in other places. That means if you're driving into the residential complex with over 80 kilometers, imagine, I live on a street like this, someone who can drive 80 kilometers down this street and have my kid walk on the sidewalk or, God forbid, cross. The other hypothesis: 50 km/h 60 above means you drive over 110 km/h. Even your example, which you gave with the Tsarigradsko shose the camera is just before the traffic light. You, at least, even if it glows yellow, need to slow down to cross. On the other side, if cars come, what will happen in a crash of 110 km/h?! I think it's a good offer. He's got to have a moral character and know that you can't drive fast in the city. In 2015, high speed is the biggest killer on the road, and in urban environment is the worst crashes when there is high speed. So I personally support this proposal. We need to know that we have to comply with the rules. In fact, if you ask me, 60 kilometers is pretty much above allowing as such permission, but let's start somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Third line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr Svilenski, this has indeed been a highly discussed text, and you see how the proposal from an importer has changed to what we are proposing as an amendment to the Commission. Your replicating colleague Svilen Ivanov explained that we have greatly reduced the scope of such punishment by taking it only to the settlements. There is a lot of logic in what the Chairman of the Transport Commission Nastimir Ananiev said. I will join these examples and hypotheses that can occur in a populated area, but please also bear in mind that a settlement within the meaning of the Law is a small village, say, which passes through a transit not a first-class road but a second-class road. Assuming that the ban is also 50 km/h there, it really means sanctioning the speed exceeding 110 km/h. After a difficult debate and overpowering the argument for protecting people's lives and health, the pedestrians of the people, again I say, that is why the Legal Committee has been inclined and supported such a text that is of your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Svilensky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will try to respond to the three of them in total and make a duplicate. I agree with you that high speed is a great violation and a scourge for people when they meet with it, but I bring back the topic: how will it be implemented in practice? I give you another example that travels on the highway to Varna... [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Listen to me, before Veliko Tarnovo, the village is five kilometers in, but the sign is placed on the main road. There is a settlement because our sign farm is such that not everywhere is consistent with what you offer. And there, passing 110 kilometers, given that until 200 meters ago you were driving at a 90km limit, you should go to jail. We must, first, change the sign farm, see it, update it. Understand, this will not reduce the casualties along the way! The fact that we say now that we're going to put them in jail won't be able to complete any production. Not to mention there's no room in prison for these people to serve their time. Again, let's think about the Road Traffic Act and then, if necessary, after updating the road holding, after seeing some statistics on how many such intruders there are, do we need such a thing to do it? Otherwise, we enter a case where each one of us will later find it hard on his conscience that he has accepted such a norm. I ask you again either not to vote or not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. To speak, the people's representative Iskren Veselinov, after him the people's representative Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I, too, will refrain from supporting this proposal for several reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that, yes, this proposal is better than that of the importer. Indeed, I share that there must be a particularly effective penalty in populated areas for drivers who exceed the allowed speed. However, the question is whether this sanction should be criminal. I don't share that view. The penal code is a very serious legal act that fights against anti-social acts of a particular nature, with a particular weight. Crimes, as we were once taught, must also have a counterproductive effect. I don't see the wrong result, the criminal result in practice from speeding in itself. If there were any prerequisites for a crash here, if there was a crash and so on, I would agree to discuss the subject on some similar formula. However, the issue of speeding is not for me about the Penal Code, but about a strict administrative penalty, as we have so far. About 25 times has been amended the Road Traffic Act in the last three years, and also the norms of the Criminal Code relating to it, precisely in order to limit the number of crashes. Unfortunately, the result is not particularly effective. I highly doubt that this norm, which I think will be quite stillborn in general, will contribute something in this direction. And because we give ourselves examples, the really blatant example of such a misunderstanding, which can happen, is not in Sofia or in the neighborhoods, it is in those roads that are transiting through settlements, sometimes crossing just the construction boundaries of the settlement and not even through the street network of this place. Often there the sign farm is unsupported, there are growing shrubs, branches and so on that interfere with visibility. Another option is you're just ahead of a truck, you don't see the sign of the restriction, and that's why you start a settlement and become a criminal because of it. I think the penalty here is excessive, it does not cover all possible hypotheses of such cases. In this spirit, I will personally refrain from supporting this sanction, recognizing the good intentions of the importers as a matter of fact. I urge you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u50	Mr. Veselinov, we've been explaining your position for a long time. I take a replica of what you have said to say your opinion can and is it normal for a violation to have a punishment as for a crime and can a driver without a driving licence not have such a severe punishment, a driver with a certificate, but with a high amount of alcohol in the blood not have such a punishment and now fly populist for speed over 60 km per hour to vote for changes in the Law that are incarcerated? And in the part how much work will be created on the lawyer's guild and do we not open a door to corrupt the control bodies that need to establish such an infringement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Second line? Mr. Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I just want to picture us traveling one-way at a speed of 90 km per hour, entering a populated area without us noticing and driving at 110 km per hour. If we're going at the speed at which we have to go under the Road Traffic Act and enter a populated area where the limit is 50 km, how is it that you're driving at 110? If someone could explain that to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u53	In this case you want Mr. Vesselinoff to explain it to you? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Veselinov, honourable colleagues! Here we just heard a statement from the variety that could not 20 meters before the traffic light slowed down to 50 km. It's more like a 100-mile drive. Well, when do we stop, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u55	Your line to Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u56	Dear colleagues, in order to prevent road problems, I believe that this measure must be adopted, because otherwise we will continue to kill each other and to kill both children and people on the roads. Mr. Svilen Ivanov's proposal is reasonable. I believe that it must be supported. But in a place of speed over 60 km from the authorised one, I think a person should take his punishment and be deprived of liberty. Everything else is populism, which is unnecessary here at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u57	Mr. Veselinov, there's no line to you, but if you want, do your own thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u58	I believe that there should be strict sanctions for people who drive in a speeding place. These sanctions must not be from the assortment proposed by the Penal Code. That's the difference between my vision and your vision. With regard to how a person with 90 km per hour would end up with more than 60 km in a populated area, it is enough on the sign of the settlement to have a complex sign 30 km per hour for the entire settlement. That's enough to get us into this hypothesis. Regarding the first line, I didn't get it as a line. I believe that there must be some proportion to the public danger of the act and the punishment that is envisaged for it, and here, I think, there is serious disproportion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u59	Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a personal explanation procedure because Mr. Ivanov said that I said that it was normal to drive 110 km in a populated area. I didn't say that, Mr. Ivanov. I said that the sign farm in Sofia and Bulgaria is not in line with the current road situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u61	20 meters before the traffic light, how much are you driving?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u62	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u63	We all know how much we have to drive. Each and every one of us is a driver, and he knows how sometimes they break... I'll give you one more example, and hopefully I can convince you. For Members of the National Assembly in the direction of Varna, village of Mikre, 3 km from the road. The camera is currently in place there. 50 km per hour is the limit. Mr. Mihov knows the camera isn't working, but it's working. If you go by 100... By reaching Varna, you should go to jail at least three times. Think about what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u64	What's the personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u65	I'm offended that I didn't say those words that you said. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] What's going on? Mr. Ivanov, you need another parliamentary term to understand what the MPs are saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. The People's Representative Chetin Kazak has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u67	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The subject is really predisposing to populism, and it's strong. In general, I do not believe that there are people in this House who tolerate speeding and who do not worry about the dangers that it hides, especially in populated areas. However, not every misdemeanor must be necessarily classified as a crime, punishable by imprisonment. There are other mechanisms, other sanctions, which can sanction anti-legal behaviour or socially dangerous behaviour, reproaching from the point of view of society. These mechanisms must be used maximum before the severe form of penalty, namely prosecution, and with imprisonment. I'd like to address my colleagues in turn. Ruse's colleague, I won't mention his name, he knows very well. I believe he has a stakeout on how to drive on the road. Colleague, coworker! You know very well how to drive...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u68	I think there are at least a few colleagues from Ruse in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u69	Okay, I'm addressing Svilen Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you know very well how to drive along the road, which starts from the beginning of the entry into Ruse from Sofia to Danube Bridge. Massive! If a police checkpoint is placed there and is really closely monitored for compliance with the restrictions, do you know how quickly the prisons in Bulgaria will be filled? It's just your fantasy is poor! For colleagues from Sofia, you know that every night, every night on the South Rainbow on the ring road in Sofia, there are races. There are unimaginable speeds of these races. A lot over 50-60 kilometers above the limit. What? So, we're gonna put everyone out there in the races, in jail!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u70	That's right, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u71	Yeah, yeah! In Gabrovo, on Sevlievo, from the sign of entry into Gabrovo to the first traffic light also predisposes the road to high speeds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u72	Mr. Kazak, you've got two more minutes just to reduce the stretches, because I don't know if you'll have enough time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u73	I know my colleague will speak after me, so I'm paying attention to him. So there are many examples. I really suggest, if we want it to have an effect, here is my colleague Emil Raynov and I will speak, the Bulgarian hurts the most when he gets hit in the pocket, not when you threaten him with prison. Then it has the greatest preventative effect. If sanctions are put in place, effective, tangible, painful, such as deprivation of the right to govern for quite a long time,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u74	It's got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u75	...including confiscation, withdrawal of the motor vehicle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u76	And we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u77	That's something else, and we can talk about it there. But to proceed directly to a penalty on the Penal Code seems really far-fetched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u78	First line, Mr. Ananiev, second line, Mr. Ivanov, and third line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kazak, you said how to fight loudly, so we allow, we tolerate mentality, culture only because people do it. Why limit them, why stop them?! It's the same one beer doesn't interfere, two crabs also. It's exactly the same, either we fight the problem or we don't fight it. Last 2015 Bulgaria shared first place in the road killed 95 people per 1 million inhabitants, with Romania. Why do we have to be the first one killed on the road? I want us to be first in economics! But we must take concrete action. We're not talking about speeding five kilometers, 10 kilometers, we're talking 60 kilometers above the limit. That's a hell of a distance! Who enters Ruse or goes 110 km if 50 km is the limit, 60 km from the top? And to tolerate it, I don't understand it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u80	Are you driving a cab?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u81	By the way, you mentioned the other sanctions. Next week I hope to enter the second reading of the Road Traffic Act. There we double the fines, so we have sanctions of a different nature and we double the fines for speeding. So that's why we've thought about it, but we shouldn't tolerate the mentality just because it was mass because it was fighting otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u82	Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, yes, I will explain how it is in Ruse. Since I was in charge of the department as deputy mayor, I called a joint committee and the limit is 80 km when you enter Ruse so that the traffic can move faster. You know there's a lot of international traffic in connection with the Danube Bridge, so I've come up with a solution. As far as other calls are concerned, I don't think the idea of legislation is to protect those who race and how those who race shouldn't go to jail. That's another thing you didn't come up with effectively, as long as the races continue. It was a debate, at least one year, which involved the National Assembly. The other thing. I don't want to think about the people who got hurt in these very situations in the cities. I didn't happen to say anything about pedestrian paths, speed failure. But, guys, that's a lot of speed. I can't imagine anyone driving 110 km/h in cities. I agree, there are boulevards in Sofia, which may indeed be faster, but it is increased, as far as I know there is a limit to 70-80 km, but driving in small neighborhoods and streets with more than 100 km/h is just not serious. As far as I know in one crash over 100 km/h, if you're driving at 100 km/h or 150 km/h, the effect is the same. If two cars meet at 100 km/h, it is clear that the impact is at very high speed and the victims are almost the same. So I don't think we can solve such a high speed in urban terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u84	Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kazak, in your legal committee, you took the same crap you did in our Transport Department.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u86	It's the same material.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u87	That's where I looked at the laws we've been doing for Sofia, for Varna or for Gabrovo or Burgas or I don't know where. Everyone in the Transport Commission has been practicing to change the car transports, because on the bus line they will drive in Sofia taxis or in Varna will drive almost where you are. I don't mean certain colleagues or anything. You now, in the same way, from our not so good, began to make laws about how it was going at the "Hemus" and how it was going at the "Trakia" or how it was at Mikre or how it was in Ruse. For me, the more important debate that's been dropped here, and maybe I'll take the floor afterwards, because I'm not going to have enough time and, as a statement, is that there's a big collision with the Road Traffic Act on this bill. Very big! In one law, trespassers cannot be punished in one way, but in the Penal Code, we can punish them in another way. That's the error of the Legal Commission, because when you change one law, you have to change the other in the same way. And I'll tell you why. [[Reply of National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Yes, Mr. Kirilov, it is. I'll tell you the following hypothesis. In the Road Traffic Act we introduced electronic slips, electronic acts, cameras and so on. Tell me how you're going to verify when you want to put someone in jail after such a violation caught with a camera, who was driving the vehicle? There's gonna be some old ladies put in jail, uncles, aunts and so on. Before entering the electronic ticket, the driver had to declare who was driving the car and to impose the penalty on him and so on. Now in the same way the driver will have to declare perhaps because the photo does not certify who was driving. And there will be the same way aunts, relatives, uncles put in prison at the expense of those who really managed the vehicle. That's the problem between the two laws. Since time is up, I don't know, maybe I'll take the floor as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u88	If you decide, I'll give it to you. [[Laughter and noise in the hall.]] It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President, thank you for your comments. I would like to note to Mr. Nikiforov that he has obviously not listened carefully to my speech, and I have not, at any point in my speech, pleaded for leniency or that the jigs on the road should be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u90	So you had a line, I recall, from Mr. Ananiev, from Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u91	Yes, from Mr. Ananiev, I apologize. Mr. Ananiev, I didn't plead to tolerate speeding anywhere. I objected to the approach that has been taken, namely criminosis, and through the most severe charge, I objected to the imprisonment of such an unlawful act. For me, as the previous spokesperson said, the place of sanctioning these acts is in the Road Traffic Act. There, and with very serious material sanctions to really make those who allow such violations seriously consider and take serious discomfort from their behaviour, to say the least, through serious fines, withdrawal of driving licences if the car needs to be confiscated. Such a kind of sanctions that really respect and not threaten with a prison, which is clear that within three years, will be first, conditional, and then transformed into administrative punishment. We basically just wave scarecrows and we think that's how we solved the case. Now I want to address others, especially my colleague Mihov. Mr. Mihov, you signed this bill, I don't know if you remember. Krasimir Velchev was the first to bring it in. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah! You have imported this Bill and there even this text is not only for settlements.. it is for the whole country. Take a good look! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah! Here, I'll tell you, I'll read to you. Importers are quite a people, among which is Tsvetomir Mihov, exactly. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Yeah, you obviously don't remember what you brought in, but other times be careful what you sign, a colleague from Gabrovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u92	For speech there is Emil Dimitrov and after him Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u93	Thank you, Madam President. The fact is that there have been traffic violations, the fact is that there have also been many casualties and something needs to be done. But right now we're making cops richer. When picking a speed above the permissible, instead of prison or bribe, it is clear what a person will choose a bribe. Agree that when we have some traffic accident in Bulgaria, wherever it happens, there is an injured person. What do you do? An expert group is called, which throws the road, looks at the traffic situation, sees whether the road has reasons and prerequisites for this traffic accident to take place without having a guilty behaviour of the driver of the vehicle. And when it is found that he was driving at an inadequate speed or that the traffic situation was correct, but his car was malfunctioning, or if there was something wrong with the tires, or if he came into a dead zone himself injured, then he goes to court and the court decides whether this person is guilty, what penalty to bear, and whether he has a penalty owed to him at all. We are currently trying to transfer this matter from the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments to the Penal Code. I mean, let's replace them with prosecutors. The caterer will just transfer you to the D.A., and the D.A. will tell you what to charge you with. We're doing something like a tribunal, because the DMV can't handle it, you see, let the D.A. handle it. We replaced the administrative measure. Agree to agree that any crime, not a car... We're currently blaming all the drivers at the moment for criminals who boarded the vehicle because they don't know what speed he was driving, he's already guilty, or if he walked into a neighborhood, but he didn't see the sign, or he wasn't, he's already a criminal, he should be held in handcuffs! When a person commits any crime in Bulgaria he is not automatically guilty, not only when a sentence has entered into force. There are four measures of detention and procedural coercion, you know, detention, signature, warranty, and finally already house arrest, of course, the rest of the measure. What are we doing right now? We're only trying to transfer from one law to another because it seems to us that this will solve the problem. Well, he's not gonna solve it for one reason or another. The Chairman of the Transport Commission just said that Bulgaria and Romania were first in 2015 on road crimes and, respectively, all the resulting consequences. Since the Political Party GERB has been in power since 2009, 25 times has been amended the Law on Road Traffic. Why hasn't it slowed down and why are we first? Or 25 times we change the law and we're first in crime, but the 26th time we change it, things will go once and we'll all go very well. And since so far we've changed everything in the direction of ZAN and the police and the DMV, now that we've transferred it to the D.A. at once, everything on the roads will be wonderful! Let's not go from one extreme to the other. You can accept any law you want and then be ashamed that you have accepted it, because I can tell you the mechanism for the adoption of a law, any law, wherever there is a violation in the country I take three mothers crying, I put them in and say: Here, so that this does not happen, come another 1000 levs, come another 2000 levs! Once we committed a huge crime by accepting the standard of over 3,000 levs for impounding a car. Because you can't confiscate the car because it's a big problem for you to take it, to store it, to sell it, we raised the fine directly. Cars cost 300 levs, but we fine them 3,000. BGN, but nevertheless, this is an administrative measure. Let's continue with the administrative measures! Deprive them of their rights for one year, for two years, impose a penalty, double, triple, but do not go to an end. People who only got into the car with the keys should already be potential prisoners because someone seems to have changed the law 26 times, but see if there is no effect, but the 27th.. by filling a new prison, by the way new prisons are not from the 1950s, I don't want all the people whose families have suffered, just because they have gone by momentum on the downhill or there has been no sign, or someone has decided, and right now you have 40, and you are driving with 45 no problem, five levs fine, but if you're driving 60 you're going into jail. Okay, but think about how many escorts drive at this speed and what happens. At the moment of this norm, it doesn't belong there at all. I doubt the prosecution will want to implement it, and then we'll start teasing that we've done everything, but if you see the bad prosecution hasn't allowed us this law to apply it properly. This measure doesn't belong here, it's in the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Fines can be increased, disbarment can be increased, but in no case should all Bulgarians who are drivers of motor vehicles be potential prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u94	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, allow me to disagree with you and my disagreement will be expressed in two directions. First, when 2009 political party GERB won elections and formed the first cabinet Borisov, with the Minister of Interior Mr. Tsvetanov by the end of 2012 the killed on the roads decreased by half. From 1200 in 2009 to 600 people... [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Dimitrov, are you listening? So, thank you, 600 people, 2012. This is about the first thing I will not agree with. The second thing I will not agree with is that you say that all people who drive with more than 60 km per hour will be identified as criminals and will be imprisoned. No! We're talking about the people who will drive with over 60 km per hour motor vehicle in the settlements, alone and alone, Mr. Dimitrov! I think you'll agree with me, you were wrong, you made a populistic political statement that didn't belong here. I appeal to you colleagues, let us support Mr. Svilen Dimitrov's proposal in a populated area, with over 60 km per hour, for people to suffer imprisonment. Everything else is populism, and it doesn't belong here, and not now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u96	Is there a second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Look, you were offended by GERB, and you didn't have to. I just wanted to say that you've changed the law 25 times, and there's no result. You just said there was a result and it was very good. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I accept and will repeat: when GERB came to power thanks to the wonderful efforts of the Interior Minister and the honourable chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, the 1200 dead in Bulgaria have decreased to 600. Just let me know the man who spoke just before me: have you achieved this result with the measure of imprisonment, with better road prevention, or with increased fines? I don't remember when you had a mandate the first time Mr. Tsvetanov suggested prison. He didn't offer prison. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u98	It's not because they were falling.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u99	He's been working. If there is a working minister, this minister from GERB was wonderful, the measure of 1200 fell to 600. At the moment there is an increase, we are number one, 26 times the Law has been changed, but you see, the 27th time will solve it, but the measure must already be a prison! Maybe we should shoot them in the spot when they're caught, shoot them in the blink of an eye?! [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u100	Is that an offer? [[Loud laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u101	Is that your offer, sir? I regret that if it is true that during the time of GERB the victims of 1200 fell to 600 and then no prison measure was introduced, then I see no reason at the moment, because there was an increased crime, to introduce this measure where it does not belong. I'm sorry, but your words are that the cases have decreased. The conclusions are clear. On the other hand, the chairman of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports said we were number one. Obviously the increase in punishment in the way you propose it does not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u102	Under art. You want it to be 80?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u103	Mr. Mihov has a say in this. Mr. Ivanov, I didn't give you the floor. You had it a while ago. Whatever you wanted to say, we heard it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Kazak, I must have suffered catharsis or metamorphosis as you wish, accept it, but I personally will not support the proposal in this form. I'll explain why. Here two colleagues are fighting and have apparently forgotten what were the reasons for reducing the accidents. Since 2009, since I have been always in the Transport Commission, the only thing we are trying to do is introduce more and more electronization in road traffic monitoring. As early as 2009, we introduced the so-called cameras to issue electronic slips in order to avoid direct contact between the control body and the driver in any way. For this reason, multiple cameras were bought, both stationary and mobile. The Law was amended: the criminal decree to be served in the mail to the owner of the car, not to the owner of the car, with the idea of not wasting time on who was driving the car, to have electronic declarations, an electronic ticket and so on. After that, we changed the Law slightly in order to ignore the punishment of 50 BGN. from electronic slips. Unfortunately, it was abolished by the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the cameras didn't work for two years because the Supreme Administrative Court canceled the electronic ticket for a number of reasons. Just recently, we were changing the Law again, and the electronic ticket began to be issued. Those were the reasons and it is a fact that the violations have decreased in times. The only reason was the introduction of the electronic traffic control system. I think that's the future. You know, years ago, driver's licenses were taken away for speeding, but that didn't work. I don't want to repeat myself with the last line about what was going on. They catch you, they take pictures of you, you go and declare that someone was driving their car. There were paradoxes that older men and women over 80 years of age were being taken away from witnessing because their children and grandchildren declared that they were driving the vehicle when the photo was taken! I ask again my esteemed Committee on Legal Affairs. When you look at a law, although it is not true that change is 27th in order, because in this case we change the Penal Code and not the Road Traffic Act: what happens when speeding is captured by a camera, by an electronic means? Who are we putting in jail, the one who was driving, the one who was driving, the owner? What if it's a company car, who are we putting in jail?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u105	The owner of the vehicle!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u106	We have to put the head of the National Security Service in jail because the NSO drivers are driving the fastest?! Is that who we're putting in jail?! We cannot change a law lightly without having an analysis of the benefits, respectively, of the damage from it! Personally, I don't accept that! Unfortunately, we've been looking at another change to the Road Traffic Act for six months now. For the unfamiliar, I'd say I'd like to explain the following. Those who violate the Law, I think, in memory, their fine will be over BGN 700. ? Those who have such a violation of the Law. For those who make drifts or races, the fines start at 3000 leva. Up. For colleagues who talked about drifts and spinning, to say that very rarely those who make drifts drive at high speed. They make drifts and 50 kilometers an hour. We're not going to put them in jail because they were driving slowly, even though the prerequisites for traffic accidents are much larger, but we're going to bring in those who drove faster. I would support any measure aimed at mad, irresponsible and reckless driving. However, let us not drift into extremes, because this is how we will burden the judiciary. I doubt that for the first, second or third offense, someone will be put in jail, and administrative punishment, probation, and so on, until they finally go to jail. I think what we're proposing is unattended because he's doing a major road traffic bill. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. When an intruder is caught, by which law will he be punished by the one who says he should be sanctioned with a fine of 700 BGN, or by the one who says he should be put in jail?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u108	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihov! Congratulations on your catharsis. If we have a claim to be modern, modern politicians, most of the importers have to walk this catharsis. Our thesis, however, was different. A moment ago, Mr. Kazak expressed it. Ours is not subject to the question whether or not there should be penalties in these cases. We say: there is a violation, there must be a punishment, but the punishment through prison is not proportionate, is not correlative to the relevant infringement. In this direction I continue his thesis and oppose you. Let these violations be sanctioned in another way, but not by a penal code text. It is widely known, in our modern world, this is a universal world changing and we cannot stop, as it is said, the forest being greened. Cars are getting higher and higher, requirements are increasing. I am absolutely certain that these types of violations can be eliminated effectively only through a financial penalty. Even the administrative procedures Mr. Dimitrov is talking about, I don't think they're effective. We all know the basic rule not only in Bulgaria, but it is that the Bulgarian does not like to be mistaken in two places. One is the pocket. Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Second line supposed by the public representative Dimitar Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihov, I agree with you, but partly. Your speech opens up a big contradiction. And this contradiction is due to the unwillingness of the DMV when controlling with the electronic systems or so-called cameras. Mr. Mihov, the road is a public place. As public as any mall where there are cameras. So publicly, where every street where there are cameras outside the houses where you can be filmed. This DMV thesis that they don't have the right, she's critiqued, she's an incorrect thesis. And this thesis is only because it is easier to sanction, as you said, the elderly woman who may not have a license to rule, Mr. Mihov. In this case, ask your colleagues at the DMV as I, when I rule without having a license to rule, do I have a criminal responsibility, Mr. Mihov? I got it, I got it, Mr. Mihov. On the second time, I'm wearing one. [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Yeah, yeah. Then if I sanction administratively, you see, I'll sanction someone I'm not convinced he's running with a law enforcement certificate. And things will fall into place with the tickets and the Penal Code. It's the same in France. Yeah, they're filming the face. No one, in my opinion, has any reason to claim that they had no right. The road is a public place. I'll repeat it one more time for those who didn't understand both at a big store and on a street where there are cameras it's not unconstitutional to film my face in public, to send me the message. There was a problem in France when they sent them the picture, there were problems. You go to the DMV, you get your picture, and you argue she was driving your grandmother.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u111	Your time is up, Mr. Lazarov. Thank you. Third line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Mihov! I thought of speaking, but it seems more appropriate to make my speech in the form of a reply to you, as you are indeed one of the active members of the Transport Commission. It seems to me that from now on, what has been heard in the debate, I believe, and you will agree with me, there is a big problem with this text, and that is that it does not distinguish between the accidental accidental act, as many examples have been given, from the acts of so-called hardened repeaters who are really systematically driving around schools, settlements, kindergartens with a hundred and more kilometers per hour and obviously there must be a very severe penalty for them, because there are not one and two cases in recent years for severely injured pedestrians on the road. Unfortunately, many cases are fatal. So what I want to offer you and what I am somewhat taking from the existing provision of art. 343c in the Penal Code, it is necessary that this penalty is actually imposed for such a violation in a populated area, but when we have already established and sanctioned an act in administrative order. That is, once the person has been found to be driving at more than 50 km per hour, he has been sanctioned, then he should be punished in case of relapse. And in this sense, I am making an editorial proposal, which I will now give you, Mr President, and you, namely, in § 6, as on the Commission, to obtain the following kind: 182, p. 6 of the Law on Road Traffic in Administrative Orders and on we continue to increase the maximum permitted speed of more than 60 km per hour, established in due order, is punishable by imprisonment for up to three years. Or, in other words, once again, there has been a serious violation, because driving more than 50 km in a populated area is systematically a serious violation, obviously it is not an accident, as well as given quite good examples, I will give you another speedy North tangent in Sofia, as far as I remember, there is a limit of 120 km per hour. Think of it in an accidental repair if you do not see the sign of a 60 km limitation whether you are actually performing a composite act that immediately sends you to prison on the text proposed. But if this has already happened once, or more than once, then you can truly bear this criminal responsibility and distinction between relapses and accidental acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u113	Would you like to give the proposal in writing? Thank you. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, it doesn't really suit me to explain to lawyers, and proven lawyers, why what they say doesn't. I said very well in my speech: the electronic ticket that we introduced 2010 was cancelled by the Supreme Administrative Court. One of the reasons was exactly the picture of the face.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u115	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u116	There's no such thing. That's not true. It was never in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u117	You know very well how many of the tickets were appealed and fell in court with exactly this claim. Who was photographed or who was photographed next to you. I hope none of you gets into this situation, because there have been cases like this. [[Radio.]] I keep thinking that we shouldn't transfer the problem from the sick to the healthy leg, and, you see, when we decide, we'll create one another. Perhaps the sanctions should be even higher. Why not four years or five. Go ahead, sit down and think about it. You're the lawyers. I'm simply explaining to you that there is a collision between two laws. Simple as that. One law states that police officers or cataclysers don't stop for a speed check, they shoot it and send an electronic ticket. In the other, you write that we're putting them in jail. Well, what are we doing? We tell one of them: there's a lot of corruption, you don't stop them, you just take pictures of them and send them the tickets. The other law says you start stopping them, asking them for documents, and, God forbid, we'll put them in jail. I, myself, say again, would support any proposal to increase the penalty, but to be legally sustained, not to introduce a collision between laws once again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u118	To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I just want to say that I am absolutely solidarity with my colleague Tsvetomir Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u120	Catarsis?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u121	No, I don't have a catharsis because we discussed it in the Transport Commission. But here I heard many interesting words from my colleague from GERB,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u122	Tell me the name of Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u123	...who, you see, blamed everyone who exposed the opposite thesis that they were populists. Come on, now let's see who the populists are. The big importers of this extraordinary text. What the new para provides. 5 in art. 343b? Presupposes that anyone standing behind the wheel is, in general, a potential perpetrator of a common crime. Come on now, gentlemen, accusers of populism, let me ask you: will you be punished and sanctioned as MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u125	Because, first of all, immunity hides you. [[(Comments from GERB: There is no such thing!]] And secondly, this crime, which is punishable up to three years in prison, does not belong to the group of serious crimes. I mean, even the Attorney General can't ask for your immunity. Do you see some gentlemen how well they've worked out a text, but completely populist, to crush people, to turn them into criminals, only, do you see, that they hide in parliament and that no one can touch them?! Article 69, art. 70 of the Constitution you can read them. If you can't distinguish heavily from a minor crime............................................................................................ 93 of the penal code. But these are other topics, and I don't have time to lecture you on criminal and constitutional law. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] The question is, who's the populist? Who wants to turn the Bulgarian citizen into a criminal? And the even bigger question is, what is the great purpose of this text? If we emerge from the assumption that the great purpose of this text is to reduce infringements, this is not true.. will not achieve this goal. There is neither a prepared analysis nor an impact assessment of this text. It just occurred to someone, but it didn't exactly occur to them, it was chasing a real target, and that goal is called co-ruption! When a person, for example, on a city highway, I repeat, an urban highway, where there is a huge gap in the Law, but the notion of a city highway exists, has driven at a speed that suits ordinary highways, in fact the question arises: is it an intruder? Then the question arises: if the idea is really to reduce the violations, the accidents, the dead, the honourable colleagues, I ask you: if you are hit by a 40 km speed drive, will you stay alive? And why is it that those who have gone 40 kilometers over will not go to jail, and those who are 60 will go in? If you were hit by not 40, at 38 kilometers faster, would you be able to get out of there? Another question is what will be the type of motor vehicle you will be hit with. There's something else going on here. Those who have made the proposal, I repeat, this is an extremely lobbying text in favour of corruption, of corrupting the traffic control system on the road. I now address my colleagues from the BSP if they really support corruption to rise, let only seven or eight people remain. If they don't support me, I turn around and fill the room so that together, with joint efforts we can reject this extremely dangerous text in the Penal Code. This is unacceptable! It is unacceptable to turn driving on the road into a criminal act and a common crime. And at the same time, everyone here in this room would hide behind their immunity for the simple reason that the law was made so that even the Attorney General couldn't ask for their immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u126	Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we are discussing the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted on 8 October 2016 by a long group of MPs. The name of Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov is listed in this group under number 11. [[Radio.]] Do you recognize this face?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u128	Catarsis!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u129	That's why I asked you that I expect a catharsis from you, too, because you are a collaborator and you have signed, including under this proposal, even more drastic. So I suggest that you be careful from now on what you sign, regardless of who initiated it. In the end, in order to avoid other similar confuse situations, I propose that, Madam President, we put an end to the debate on this paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u130	Second line? Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u131	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, first of all, for a common crime we are all responsible, so you are wrong in this part. But I have heard from you another call that we have a problem with corruption. Let's adopt the Anti-Corruption Act faster so we can start fighting this problem. When at the moment we have a fine that is also for speeding of 700 leva, again someone can say a bribe or a fine. So the problem of corruption is not solved by saying: Someone may ask for a bribe. Give us nothing to do because people are bribed. No, let's bring in the Anti-Corruption Act and start fighting this corruption, not just talking about how scary it was and not doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u132	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I fully agree with everything you have said on the proposal for a change in the Penal Code. I just want to ask you: was an analysis of the impact of this Law presented in the committees in which you saw it, if you were present?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u134	It wasn't required at the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u135	It doesn't matter. However, we, as MPs, need to know by now how many acts there are designed to drive at speeds over 60 km in urban terms. Because this bill, this text has been tabled in one form, in the Commission has become in another form, and now from the stands in the form of a replica Mr. Slavov proposed a third option. Madam President, I ask you not to allow this text to be done in the Penal Code by which people will enter prison. Come on, anything else can be accepted for taxis, for buses, for rail transport, but people can go to prison on texts written on this stand, from which we need to talk, let's not do it. I call on you once again: Mr. Bayraktarov, take along with you the attitude................................................................................. Otherwise, we're all about severe high-speed penalties, I think there's no question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u136	The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kazak, thank you for turning your attention to number 11 of those who have signed the bill. However, it would be correct to emphasise that this Project consists of five paragraphs. And if you are impressed, I have not spoken in the other paragraphs, as I support them there, the texts are really good. However, I have stated at the time of the submission that § 3 under the importer of the Bill will absolutely not support it. However, unfortunately, the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly do not divide the bills into good and bad proposals. Therefore, it is given the opportunity to speak on every text I do at second reading. So do not be honored in such a way as to try to minimize the good things in this Bill. As far as Mr. Ananiev is concerned. Mr. Ananiev, you have actually admitted that this text stimulates corruption, which shows once again an inconsistent behaviour. And I'm gonna stop here. I will not comment on the proposed law on supposedly dealing with corruption. I repeat that this proposed Law stimulates the creation of corruption, but today it is another topic. Mr. Svilensky, I absolutely agree with you. You can't make a knee like this, as they say, changes to the Penal Code and put people in jail. And put people in jail! I just want to ask, in the form of a duplicate, is it possible that a banker who has granted an unsecure loan for hundreds of millions should not be in prison, only that in the Penal Code, strangely why, in 2003, this responsibility of the bankers was removed. So, a banker who will abuse the money of hundreds of thousands of investors, he is not supposed to be liable for criminal charges, but for an unhappy driver is predicted, you see, a prison sentence. That's insulting, colleagues. It is insulting to accept a change in the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u138	In his reply, Mr Chetin Kazak made a procedural proposal to end the debate on this paragraph. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal to put an end to the debate on this text. They voted 115 MPs: 102, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I'm inviting the MPs to the House! In § 6, which offers us in art. 343b to create a new para. 5................................................................................................. 5: The driver in driving the vehicle in a populated area exceeds the maximum permitted speed of more than 60 kilometers per hour established in due order shall be punished by imprisonment for up to 3 years. In the course of the debate Mr. Slavov proposed that after the words "populated place" be placed a comma and add the text: 182, p. 6 of the Law on Road Traffic in Administrative Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u139	It changes the meaning.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u140	This is an addition that makes a link between the administrative type of punishment, the path of the administrative type of punishment, and then move on to criminal liability. I'm voting on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 42, against 27, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u141	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I want a re-voting procedure. Firstly, some of the colleagues failed to vote, but secondly, in view of the arguments that were developed in the debate, I believe that the proposal of my colleague Petar Slavov has a legitimate legal logic and builds both types of proceedings the administrative-criminal and only after that the criminal. So, although this proposal is editorial, it would in any event help without regard to the final vote on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u142	You did a re-vote procedure. Mrs. Kovatchka has entered the Chamber, has not been able to vote, which is why she has now been revoting. They voted 134 MPs: 48 against 30, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 6 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 131 MPs: 15 against 62, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause.]] Next paragraph, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u143	Mrs. Chairman! Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 343c is created para. 3. Al. 3: Punishment under para. 1 shall also be imposed on a person who drives a motor vehicle within the period of application of a forced administrative measure for temporary withdrawal of the driving licence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u144	Are there any speeches, honourable Members, according to § 7? There aren't any. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create § 7. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u145	Paragraph 5 on the report. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 5, which is being written here, § 8, but it is probably § 7, that is, a paragraph with a serial number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u146	Isn't the previous paragraph a new 7? In other words, it is indeed correctly noted as § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u147	It will become § 7, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u148	Paragraph 7 - Technical correction. Statements? There aren't any. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 5, which is supported by the Commission and is proposed to become § 7. They voted 86 MPs: 81, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Final provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u149	'Concluding provision.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u150	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of the subdivision. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u151	Paragraph 6 on the report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... The Code of Criminal Procedure shall be established by art. 69a: ? Timely withdrawal of a driving licence Art. 69a. (1) When the accused is attracted to a crime under Chapter 11, Section II of the special part of the Penal Code, as a result of which death or bodily injury has been caused, as well as a crime under art. 325, para. 3 of the Criminal Code, the prosecutor may grant a temporary revocation of the driving licence of a motor vehicle or of another document recognising the right under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7 of the penal code. (2) The order shall be sent for the enforcement of the bodies which recognise that right and control its exercise. (3) The accused and his defender may appeal the order of the prosecutor under para. 1 before the respective first instance court. (4) The court shall immediately examine the appeal in closed session and shall rule by order confirming or repealing the order of the prosecutor under para. 1. The definition is final. (5) When the need for the temporary withdrawal of the driving licence of a motor vehicle or of another document recognising the right under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7 of the Penal Code, it shall be revoked in pre-trial proceedings by the prosecutor or at the request of the accused or his defender by the court pursuant to para. 4. (6) For the revocation of the temporary withdrawal of the driving licence of a motor vehicle or of another document recognising the right under art. 37, para. 1, t. 7 of the Penal Code, immediately inform the authorities which recognise this right and control its exercise. (7) In the judicial proceedings the powers under para. 1, para. 5 and 6 shall be carried out by the court dealing with the case. The order is subject to appeal with a private complaint and a private protest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements under § 6 by importer? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 6, which becomes § 8. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted by which the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code at second reading is finally adopted. Honourable Members, we are moving on to a next item on the agenda. Since we voted on point two and point three to drop out of the Programme, point two becomes point four, that is, this is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016, was adopted at the first vote on 14 July 2016. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. I recall that we began to see the Draft at second reading on 7 October 2016. A proposal was voted on by the text under art. 64. The rapporteur must continue to report on art. 65. [[Noise and lines.]] Article 65 you must report. Mrs. Stoyanova is already online and in condition. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we go any further, I just want to remind you that at the previous session, which was a long time ago, and that's probably why it's forgotten...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u154	It was October 7th.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u155	Yes, on October 7th....................................................................................................... The proposal of the Commission's version of Art. 63 was rejected. 63 and that is why we are virtually without art. 63, which is why we must now vote on Article 63. 63 by importer. Please put to the vote art. 63 in the version of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u156	There was also an editorial. They're rejected too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u157	That's right. The text of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u158	We are now voting on the proposal of an importer to art. 63. Please, honourable Members, vote on the proposal made. It's been reported. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With art. 64 What happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u159	He's accepted, so we're moving on with art. 65. Under art. 65 has a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, which he is currently withdrawing. Vote art. 65, which the Commission supports by proposing in para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5 the words suppose the start of the countdown of the unit shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u160	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 65 together with the proposal made under para. 1 and para. 5. Please, voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u161	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66, by offering in para. 1 sentence first, the words.. is limited to a size which is not to be replaced by.. cannot be replaced by................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u162	Maybe you should read that it's an Oditor's fee. 66? I remember asking you to read these headlines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u163	The name, the title of the members? All right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u164	"Oditor's remuneration" is this article. 66. Statements? There aren't any. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 66, along with the proposed changes in para. 1. Voting mode. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u165	Article 67 has the name "Preparation for mandatory audit and assessment of threats to independence'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67 by proposing that the word "supplied" be replaced by "supposed." Article 68 "Save a review of the quality control of the undertaking'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 68. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 69 "Irregularities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 69 by offering in para. 1 the word "supposes" to be replaced by "supposed" in para. 2 after the word "the case" to be added to or not to take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u166	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on the importer's proposal, supported and edited by the Commission, for Articles 67, 68 and 69. Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u167	"3rd " Public supervision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Three. The Commission for Public Supervision of the Holders is responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u168	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer for the name of Part Three and a text of the importer for the name of Chapter Eight. Voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u169	Article 70 "Statute of the Commission'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70. Article 71 "Sustainability and functions of the Commission'. Proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which is supported. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is generally supported. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, which is supported. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 71: The Commission's responsibility and functions Art. 71. (1) The Commission shall be responsible for the supervision of: 1. the acquisition of the right to exercise activity as a registered auditor, the registration of auditors, including auditors from other Member States of the European Union and from third countries and the temporary deprivation of the right to exercise the activity as a registered auditor; 2. the adoption of standards of professional ethics, of internal quality control in the activities of registered auditors and of statutory financial audit and audit services; 3. the continuing professional development of the registered auditors; 4. the system for ensuring the quality of the professional activity of the registered auditors; 5. enforcement of forced administrative measures and imposition of administrative penalties. (2) The Commission shall supervise by: 1. carrying out inspections and investigations; 2. a decision on refusals to register the registered auditors in the register referred to in Article 2. 20; 3. enforcement of forced administrative and other measures under art. 89, para. 2 hereinafter referred to as the "supervisory measures'; 4. giving way to proceedings for the search for administrative criminal liability. 5. carrying out checks to comply with the regulatory requirements of the functions exercised by the IDEC under art. 36, para. 1, t. 1-5 and under art. 85, para. 3. (3) The Commission shall: 1. adopt rules of procedure, which shall be promulgated in the Official Journal. 2. adopt the rules for carrying out inspections and investigations; 3. adopt the rules of art. 31, para. 1, t. Art. 12 and under Art. 63; 4. adopt rules and methodological guidelines on the terms and conditions for the functions exercised by the IDES under art. 36, para. 1, t. 1-5, and under art. 85, para. 3; 5. adopt other rules, guidelines and methodological guidelines for the application of public supervision. (4) The Commission shall be a competent authority for the application of Regulation (EU) No 53
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u170	Thank you. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on a text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 70 and the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 71. We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u171	Art. The Commission's position and requirements for the President and the Members. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72. Article 73 "Selecting of the President and Members of the Commission'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73, by offering in para. 1 words on a proposal from the Committee on Budget and Finance shall be replaced by a subsequent public procedure. And here I ask, Mr. Chairman, for a statement. I'd like to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u172	It's under art. 73, para. 2, p. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u173	In the case of a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the one part, and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u174	Is this after IDES?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u175	Yeah. A comma shall be placed instead of a comma and added after selection by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u176	Thank you. Is there a line on this statement under art. 73? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, we will first vote on the proposed editorial proposal made for art. 73, para. 2, p. 4 which was read by Mrs. Stoyanova. We are voting on the proposed editorial proposal for art. 73. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. Editorial proposal accepted. And now we vote on the importer's anblock text, supported by the Commission, for art. 72, and the text of the importer for art. 73, along with the editorial proposal supported just now by colleagues in the Chamber. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u177	Article 74 "Mandat and the legal situation of the President and of the Members of the Commission'. A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, which is supported. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 74: "Mandat" and termination of powers Art. 74. (1) The term of office of the President and of the members of the Commission shall be 4 years. The Chair and the members of the committee shall not be elected for more than two consecutive terms. (2) The powers of the President and of a member of the Committee shall be terminated by the National Assembly before their term of office expires: 1. at their request; 2. if they are unable to fulfil their duties for more than 6 months; 3. if it ceases to meet the requirements of art. 72, para. 2, p. 3 and 4; 4. in case of non-participation without justified reasons in three or more Commission meetings for a period of one year; 5. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest; 6. in the event of death. (3) Upon termination of the term of office of the President or of a member of the Commission in his place for the remainder of the term of office, another person shall be elected in accordance with art. 73. (4) Upon expiry of the term of office for which they have been elected, the President and the members of the Commission shall continue to exercise their powers until the election of a new President and Members. (5) The members of the Commission, with the exception of its President, shall not be in employment or service with the Commission. Article 75 "Rewardes of the President and of the Members of the Commission'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u178	Statements on the proposed two members? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 74 and Commission-supported text of the importer for art. 75. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u179	This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76: The powers of the President of the Commission Art. 76. (1) The President of the Commission shall direct its activities and represent it. (2) The President of the Commission shall appoint and dismiss the staff from the administration. Article 77 "The Commission's powers'. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and group, which is supported. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 77: The Commission's power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Art. 77. (1) In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall: 1. exercise the supervisory powers referred to in Article 1. 71, para. 2, p. 1-3, and may be assisted by the relevant authorities of the IDEC; 2. supervise the lawful and effective performance of the functions under art. 36, para. 1, t. 1-5, for the implementation of the rules and methodical instructions under art. 71, para. 3, p. 2 and 4 as well as compliance with the requirements of independence and lack of conflict of interest under art. 54; 3. returns for further or re-check the cases where the quality of inspections carried out to ensure the quality of the professional activity of a registered auditor is unsatisfactory; 4. designate a member or members to participate in inspections to ensure the quality of the professional activity of a registered auditor in case of repeated non-compliance with certain deadlines for completion or insufficient quality of inspections; 5. carry out investigations at its discretion or in the case of alerts received and proposals for alleged infringements in the conduct of mandatory financial audit and/or the provision of audit services; in such cases the Commission may be assisted by the relevant IED bodies; in receipt of alerts for infringements in the provision of services other than mandatory financial audit and/or audit-related services, the Commission may entrust the IED to carry out checks on them; 6. carry out continuous monitoring of the development of the market for the provision of services in relation to the statutory audit of the financial statements of an undertaking of public interest, in particular assessing: (a) the risks arising from the existence of deficiencies relating to the quality of the activity of registered auditors, including systematic deficiencies within an audit network, which may lead to the cessation of the activity of each audit firm, difficulties in the provision of statutory audit services in a particular sector or for different sectors, the concentration of risk of audit deficiencies and the impact on the overall stability of the financial sector; (b) market concentration levels, including in specific sectors; (c) the results of the work of the audit committees; (d) the need to adopt the risk mitigation measures referred to in point 7. notify the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office in the case of the identification of the criminal offences committed; 8. cooperate with the relevant authorities of the European Union, with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union, or with third countries responsible for the mandatory financial audit; 9. may require registered auditors, IDECs, audited undertakings, audit committees and other related persons to provide certified copies of documents, references and other information within its specified time limits; 10. exercise other powers related to the responsibilities and functions under art. 71. (2) By 31 July of the current year, the Commission shall submit to the National Assembly a report on its activities for the previous professional year. The report shall also contain information on: (a) the Commission's activities with regard to responsibilities and functions under art. 71; (b) the overall results of the quality assurance system; (c) summary information on findings and conclusions of inspections and investigations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u180	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 76 as well as supported by the Commission and edited by it a text of the importer for art. 77. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u181	Article 78 "The Commission's administration'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 78, by offering para. 4 to be amended as follows: The inspections and investigations shall be carried out by inspectors authorised by the President of the Commission. Article 79 "Securities and decisions of the Commission'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79, by offering para. 3 to be amended as follows: The temporary suspension of the right to carry out financial audit, temporary deprivation of the right to carry out audit activities under art. 42, para. 3 and for temporary withdrawal of functions under art. 36, para. 1, t. 1-5 shall be adopted by a majority of 4 votes. Those decisions shall be made public on the Commission's website, indicating the way and reasons for voting each voter. Article 80 "Clearness of the Commission'. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 80: "Transparency of the Commission's activities Art. 80. The Commission shall publish on its website: 1. the decisions adopted; 2. Annual activity report under art. 77, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. annual plan of inspection work. Article 81 "Principles in the Commission's activities'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u182	Dear colleagues, speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting for the importer's anblock proposals, supported by the Commission and edited by it, for Articles 78, 79, 80 and 81. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. I declare...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u183	Mr. Chairman, let's finish Chapter Eight and give it a rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u184	Let's call for a break, though, so we can get the mood back in the coworkers. Thirty minutes off till 5:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u185	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. We are currently on the second vote of the Independent Financial Audit Bill. The reporting of art. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u186	The obligation to keep professional secrecy........................................................................................... 82. There is a proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. Menda Stoyanova's proposal is supported by the Commission. A proposal by Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, also supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 82: "Contribution to the protection of professional secrecy" Art. 82. (1) Professional secrecy shall be the information which the President and the members of the Commission and the staff of its administration shall establish and receive when or on the occasion of their activities. Professional secrecy does not constitute professional secrecy within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act. (2) It is not a professional secret that is subject to public disclosure under this or any other law. (3) The President and the members of the Commission and the staff of its administration shall be obliged to keep professional secrecy, including after leaving the Commission or its administration. (4) Information representing professional secrecy may only be used by the Commission in the performance of its functions. (5) Information representing professional secrecy may only be disclosed: 1. before the authorities of the court and the prosecution; 2. before the State Agency "National Security" under conditions and in accordance with a joint instruction, insofar as this is necessary for the performance of their functions; 3. to the relevant competent authorities supervising undertakings of public interest; 4. as aggregated data in a way that does not allow individualisation of the persons to whom it relates. (6) Information on the results of inspections, investigations and inspections representing professional secrecy may also be exchanged between the Commission and the IDS authorities. The arrangements for the exchange of such information shall be laid down by rules adopted by the Commission. Art. 83 "Conflict of interest in the exercise of supervisory powers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83. Art. 84 The Commission's liability for damages. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84. Chapter 9 - The quality assurance system of the professional activity of the registered auditors subject to the supervision. The Commission supports the entry of the importer for the name of Chapter 9 by proposing that the words Section I scrubbing and principles of the quality assurance system. The Commission supports the entry of the importer for the name of Section I by proposing that the words of the quality assurance system be deleted. "Observative" "Observative" "Observative" There is a proposal by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 85: suppression Art. 85. (1) The quality assurance system of the professional activities of registered auditors shall include inspections for: 1. compliance with the requirements of the applicable auditing standards in carrying out a mandatory financial audit; 2. compliance of the audit documentation in carrying out a mandatory financial audit to the requirements of the applicable audit standards; 3. compliance with the ethical standards and requirements for independence of the registered auditor in carrying out a mandatory financial audit; 4. adequacy of the time and human resources used to carry out compulsory financial audit according to the scope and complexity of the commitment; 5. adequacy of audit fees received for carrying out mandatory financial audit; 6. adequacy of the internal quality control system applied by the registered auditor; 7. compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 573/2014 by statutory auditors carrying out compulsory financial audit of financial statements of undertakings of public interest; 8. implementation of the prescriptions under art. 89, para. 2, p. 2. (2) The conditions and procedures for carrying out inspections shall be laid down by rules adopted by the Commission. (3) The Commission may delegate to the IDEC the functions of quality assurance of the professional activity to the statutory financial audit auditors, audit firms not of public interest. The delegation of those functions shall be by a decision of the Commission adopted by a majority of 4 votes. Art. 86 "Principles." There is a proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 86: "Principles" Art. 86. (1) The quality assurance system shall be constructed in accordance with the following principles: 1. inspections shall be carried out by persons independent of the relevant inspected statutory auditors; 2. the financing of the quality assurance system is adequate, sufficient and independent of registered auditors; 3. sufficient resources are provided to carry out the necessary activities; 4. persons carrying out inspections shall have appropriate vocational education and appropriate experience in the field of financial audit and financial reporting and have undergone quality control training; 5. lack of conflict of interest between the persons conducting inspections and registered auditors; 6. inspections shall be appropriate and proportionate to the scale and complexity of the activities of the inspected statutory auditor. (2) The principles of para. 1 shall also apply when carrying out investigations. (3) Conflict of interest under para. 1, t. 5 is available where the persons carrying out an inspection or investigation: 1. and the inspected or investigating statutory auditor have been partners in an undertaking which is subject to financial audit; 2. have carried out financial audits of undertakings whose financial statements have been audited by an inspection or investigation registered auditor during the previous three years; 3. and the inspected or investigating registered auditor are related persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u187	Statements, honourable Members, on the proposed articles and names of chapters? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for texts not the importer edited by the Commission for art. Art. 82, Art. Art. 83 84, the name of Chapter 9a, the name of Section I, art. 85 in the version of the Commission and art. 86 in the version of the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u188	"Department II............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the entry of the importer for the name of Section II by proposing that the word "activity' be replaced by the "professional activity'. "Inspections and investigations." There is a proposal from Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u189	Mr. Bayraktarov wants to withdraw his offer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u190	Honourable Members, Mr President, in order to save the taxpayer's money and time to the National Assembly, I withdraw all the unsupported proposals that I and fellow Members of the National Assembly have made. I repeat: unsupported proposals. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u191	Thank you for your financial adequacy and understanding. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u192	Article 87 "A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 2, p. 4 of the subspn. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87, by offering in para. 6 the words................................................................................................................................. are replaced by...........................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u193	Thank you. Statements on the name of Section II and Article 2. 87? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Section II together with the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 87 and the editorial proposals made. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u194	The powers and obligations in carrying out an inspection or investigation shall be conferred on the competent authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the European Union. 88. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 88: The powers and obligations in carrying out an inspection or investigation. Art. 88. (1) When carrying out an inspection or investigation, the President, the members and inspectors of the Commission shall be entitled to request, within their time limits, from: 1. Inspections or investigations of a registered auditor: (a) documents, certified copies of documents, information, references and other information relevant for carrying out the inspection or investigation; (b) written explanations on matters relating to inspection or investigation; 2. natural and legal persons other than those referred to in paragraph 2. 1 The provision of certified copies of documents, information and references relating to the inspection or investigation; 3. IDES "presentation of documents, information, references and other information relating to the powers of the Commission; 4. Audit Committees under Art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2014 and for the financial year 2013 for the financial year 2013 and for the financial year 2013 for the financial year 2013 and for the financial year 2013 for the financial year 2013 and for the financial year 2014 and for the financial year 2013 for (2) The audited or investigated statutory auditors shall cooperate with the Commission authorities and shall not rely on the requirements of professional, banking or other law-protected secrecy. (3) The Commission shall be entitled, where necessary for inspection or investigation purposes, to employ external experts to carry out specific tasks. Experts must have appropriate vocational education and experience and meet the requirements of art. 86, para. 1, t. 5. (4) In carrying out an inspection or investigation, the members and inspectors of the Commission shall be identified by an official card. Article 89 Violation and supervisory measures. Proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 89: "Deficits and supervisory measures" (Art. 89 Art. 89. (1) The Commission shall apply supervisory measures where an inspection or investigation is established: 1. deficiencies or violations of the activity of the registered auditor in the areas of art. 85, para. 1; 2. failure to comply with the obligations of the registered auditor under art. 31; 3. non-compliance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014; 4. refusing to cooperate or otherwise impede the supervision of the Commission. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Commission may: 1. give an assessment of the quality of the professional activity to the registered auditor; 2. give prescriptions to the registered auditor for the suspension and removal of committed violations; the prescriptions are mandatory for implementation; 3. make public on its website and by other appropriate means the intruder and the infringements which he committed established by an entry into force; 4. make public the decision that a specific audit report does not comply with the requirements of this law and of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, and send it to the Registry Agency for Registration in the Commercial Register on the Account of the audited entity, to which the provision of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the Accounting Act; 5. deprive a registered auditor of the right to carry out compulsory financial audit of undertakings of public interest for a period of up to three years; 6. deprive a registered auditor of the right to conduct a financial audit for a period of up to three years; 7. deprive a registered auditor of the right to exercise an audit profession for a period of 5 years; 8. prohibits, for a period of up to three years, a registered auditor from carrying out a quality control review of binding financial audit commitments; 9. propose to a competent authority supervising the activities of a public-interest undertaking to prohibit a member of its management body from exercising its functions for a period of up to three years and the supervisory authority concerned shall inform the Commission of the measures taken within a reasonable period. (3) After the expiry of the term under para. 2, p. 5 and 6 may be carried out quality assurance inspections over the next three years. (4) The measures under para. 2, p. 3 and 4 shall apply for a period of 5 years from the entry into force of the Commission decision. (5) Where a measure under para. has been applied to a registered auditor. 2 t. 5 or 6 and for annual inspection or investigation in the period under para. 3 the same by type of infringement has been established, the Commission shall apply the measure under point 3. 7. (6) To a registered auditor who has committed an infringement under para. 1, t. 4 shall apply the measure under para. 2, p. 6. In case of repeated infringement, the Commission shall apply the measure under para. 2, p. 7. (7) When a violation under para. 1 is carried out by a registered auditor who carries out a mandatory financial audit on behalf of the company responsible, the supervisory measure shall apply to both the registered auditor, the natural person and the company responsible. (8) The measures under para. 2, p. 5-7 may also be applied on a proposal from the Board of Governors of the IEDS on the basis of its decision adopted by a majority of two thirds of its members. The proposal of the Management Board shall be based on the facts and circumstances established in the context of inspections by IED bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u195	Statements on the proposed members? There aren't any. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote texts of the importer, edited by the Commission for art. Art. 88, Art. 89. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u196	"Department III.............................................................................................................................................................. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bayraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Hristian Mitev, Julian Angelov, Atanas Stoyanov, Valentin Kasabov, Slavcho Atanasov and Sultanka Petrova in the name of Section III the word "activity" to be replaced by the professional activity. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the entry of the importer for the name of Section III by proposing that the word "activity' be replaced by the "professional activity'. "Inspections and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90. "Chapter 10" "Search over the activities of ITEU". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. "Self-of-sustainment" and "Search-of-control" and "Search-of-control" and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91. "Equipment order" "Art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u197	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, edited by the Commission on the name of Section III, as well as the text of the importer supported by the Commission, for art. 90, the name of Chapter 10a and the texts supported by the Commission of the importer for art. 91 and 92. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u198	"Deficits and supervisory measures" (Art. 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93, by offering in para. 1, t. 2 the words of their website and shall be replaced by their website or website; in para. 2 sentence first, the words "not" shall be "replaced" with "injures" have not been removed or exploited; in a sentence second, the words "actions/functions" shall be replaced by "functions." "Chapter 11"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 11. "Requirements to the decisions of the committee............................................................................................... 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94. "Communication and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to appeal against the Court of Justice The Commission supports the text of the importer I art. 96. "Application of the Administrative Procedure The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u199	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the proposed members and the name of Chapter 11th? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the entry of the importer edited by the Commission for Articles 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 as well as the name of Chapter 11. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u200	"Chapters 12 and "Cooperation and exchange of information with the European Union and with the competent authorities of other countries." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. "Acceptances" and "Acceptances" and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98 by proposing, following the words, the co-operators to add the authorities to the. Information exchange with the Committee of the European Audit Supervision Authorities The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99. Exchange of information with the competent authorities for public oversight of registered auditors in the other Member States of the European Union and in third countries. 100. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100, by offering in para. 5 after the words..2006/43/EC "to add to the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on the statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC, hereinafter referred to as..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/EC"; in para. 6 after the words 7 the words "all administrative measures and all penalties imposed' shall be replaced by "the supervisory measures applied and the administrative penalties imposed'; in para. 8 the words "all the prohibitions set out in the..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u201	Thank you. Statements on the proposed texts? I won't. We are voting together, honourable Members, a text of the importer for the name of Chapter twelfth, a text of the importer for the name of Section I, as well as texts of the importer, supported by the Commission and edited by it for art. 98, 99 and 100. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u202	"Investigations" "Investigation" "Art. 101. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 101, by offering in para. Two sentence two, drop. ? Refusal of the provision of information.????........................................................................................ 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102, by offering in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "to conduct' shall be replaced by "to perform'. "Does not require additional requirements." 103. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. "Department II " Cooperation and exchange of information with competent authorities of third countries ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. "Presentation of work documents of the commission............................................................................................ 104. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 104. Direct provision of work documents by registered auditors....................................................................................... 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105, proposing in the text before p. 1 words by not applying the requirements of art. No. 104, para. 1 in exceptional cases the Commission may replace them with the........................................................................................................................................................... No. 104, para. 1 and (c) 3 the word "directive" to be replaced by "directive." This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106, proposing to finally add 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u203	Thank you. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for Articles 101, 102; supported by the importer for art. 103. Also supported text of the importer for art. 104 and edited texts of the importer for Articles 105 and 106 and the name of Section II. 88 MPs voted: 87, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u204	A fourth committee in the public interest enterprises. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Part Four. "Formation of an audit committee." Art. The proposal of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107 by offering in para. 2 after the words of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to be added to the Board of Appeal and para. 4 in the text before t. 1 after the words.... are to be added to and...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 after the words the managing authority shall add a member. Rules and obligations of the Audit Committee. Art. 108 The proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A withdrawn proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108, offering t. 5 to be amended as follows: verify and monitor the independence of registered auditors in accordance with the requirements of Chapters 6 and 7 of the Law, as well as with art. 6 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, including the appropriateness of providing services outside the audit of the audited undertaking under art. 5 of the same Regulation;............................................................................................................... 7 to be amended as follows: inform the Commission as well as the management and supervisory bodies of the undertaking of any approval under art. 64, para. Art. 3 and Art. 66, para. 3 within 7 days of the date of the decision;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u205	Thanks, so far. We have an unsupported proposal that you read was withdrawn by Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u206	Yeah, yeah, he pulled them off.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u207	I understand, i.e. we are currently voting on a text of the importer for the name of Part Four, a text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 107 as well as the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 108. Please, voting mode. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Article 109.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u208	The Commission's observations, assessment and measures in relation to the activities of the Boards of Appeal. Art. 109 A proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group that has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109, by offering para. 2 to be amended as follows: The Commission may issue provisions for the improvement of the activity of audit committees in undertakings of public interest. "Five" - Administrative Punitive Provisions The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Five. "Administrative violations and penalties." Art. 110 The proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group that has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 110: "Administrative infringements and penalties" Art. 110. (1) A registered auditor shall be subject to a fine or a penalty of up to 10 per cent of the total volume of net sales revenue for the previous financial year in relation to the date of establishment of the infringement, but not less than BGN 2000 where an inspection or investigation reveals that: 1. has issued an audit report with an audit opinion or refusal to issue an opinion which does not correspond to the evidence collected in carrying out the financial audit; 2. has failed to comply with the requirements of the applicable auditing standards, which has negatively affected the results of its work and the audit opinion issued by it; 3. has not complied with the requirements of independence and lack of conflict of interest; 4. has failed to comply with the requirements for the protection of professional secrecy under art. 11; 5. has failed to fulfil the obligation to provide the replacement registered auditor with the information pursuant to art. 31, para. 1, t. 4 and/or para. 2, p. 2. 6. has not complied with the requirements for keeping the audit documentation under art. 31, para. 1, t. 10; 7. has failed to fulfil the obligations under Article 7. 56, para. 6 and 7 for the creation and maintenance of files or incomplete; 8. has failed to fulfil the obligation to report to a competent authority supervising an undertaking of public interest, as well as to the Commission, or to provide incomplete or false information under art. 61; 9. has failed to fulfil the obligation to publish an annual transparency report or the published report contains incomplete or false information as required by art. 62; 10. he has not respected the restrictions or prohibitions under Article 10. 64; 11. has not complied with the requirements for maximum duration under art. 65; 12. has not complied with the requirements for remuneration under Article 12. 66; 13. refusing or not assisting in carrying out an inspection and investigation or otherwise obstructing the functions of the Commission or the IEDS; 14. has not issued a statutory financial audit report in an undertaking of public interest on its fault if there are no valid reasons under art. 49, para. 2, or in the event of refusal to continue the performance of the audit contract, as well as in the absence of an audit report within the time limit set, which, due to the date of its later issue, cannot fulfil the purpose by which the audit was awarded; 15. has not provided the Commission with the information required under this law or provided it later than one month after the deadline set, or provided incomplete or false information; 16. has not complied with the prescriptions given by the Commission or by the IDES in accordance with Article 16. 89, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 17. has not carried out a quality control review in accordance with the requirements of art. 8 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014; 18. has performed a quality control review in accordance with Article 18. 8 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and issued an audit report with an audit opinion or a refusal to issue an opinion which does not correspond to the evidence collected in carrying out the statutory financial audit and this is not adequately reflected by the reviewer before the audit report is issued; He hasn't submitted within the term under Article 19. 11 of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014, an additional report on the audit committee or a false or incomplete report has been submitted; (2) A registered auditor shall be punished with a fine or penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN where an inspection or investigation reveals that: 1. no other requirements of the applicable auditing standards, not specified in para. 1; 2. the information required by this Law has been provided to the Commission within one month of the time limit set; 3. no other requirements of this law or acts of the Commission on its application have been complied with. (3) When violations under para. 1 or 2 are carried out by a registered auditor who carries out statutory financial audit and audit-related services on behalf of the holding company, a penalty shall be imposed on both the registered auditor and the audit firm on whose behalf the audit has been carried out. (4) When requested under art. 77, para. 1, t. Article 9 88, para. 1 documents and information shall not be provided or provided after the specified period, or if they are false or incomplete, the person concerned, other than a registered auditor, shall be subject to a fine or a penalty of 500 to 2000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (5) Chairman of a Management Board or of a Supervisory Board or Chairman of the Board of Directors or Manager of a public-interest undertaking which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 107, para. 2, is punished with a fine of 500 to 5000 BGN. (6) An undertaking of public interest which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 107, para. 1 imposed a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 BGN. (7) An undertaking of public interest which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 107, para. 7 a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed. (8) In case of repeated infringement, a fine or a double penalty shall be imposed. (9) The measures for the detection of infringements shall be drawn up by the Commission inspectors and authorised by its President to carry out the inspection or investigation. (10) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the President of the Commission. (11) The composition of the acts, the issuance, appeal and execution of the penal decrees shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Publishing of information on the administrative penalties imposed and the administrative measures taken. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u209	Speeches, honourable colleagues? There aren't any. We are voting on the importer's enblock text, supported and edited by the Commission, for art. 109, the name of Part Five, there is an unsupported proposal withdrawn, we are voting directly on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 110, as well as the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 111. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u210	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which was withdrawn in its unsupported part. There is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. It is a financial audit-like activity as an inspector in the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. 2. A good reputation is available where the registered auditor, a natural person, or partners, members of the management or control bodies of a company, is not convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature and is not deprived of the right to pursue an audit profession or activity or other similar occupations or activities in the field of finance and accounting. 3. "Member State of origin" is another Member State of the European Union which has authorised a registered auditor or company to carry out a financial audit in that country under its national legislation in accordance with the requirements of art. 3 (1) of Directive 2006/43/EU. 4. "Expert" is a natural person with specific knowledge of financial markets, financial reporting, auditing or other areas related to the checks and practice of audits carried out under this law. 5. A person concerned is a person who has a legal interest in the activity of a registered auditor, the Commission or the IED. 6. "Inspector" is a person who is in business or out of work with the Commission, has appropriate vocational education and corresponding experience in financial audit and financial reporting, does not carry out financial audit activities and has completed quality control training for the activities of registered auditors. 7. It is a set of procedures to review the work of registered auditors in order to ensure the quality of their activities and to include an assessment of compliance with applicable audit standards and independence requirements, the quantity and quality of resources spent, the remuneration received and the internal quality control system. Inspections may be planned and out of plan, as well as complete and thematic. 8. The selection commission is a committee in which shareholders or partners have a significant influence and are entrusted to make a recommendation on the choice of auditor. 9. The competent authority of a third country shall be the authority responsible for public oversight or for the approval and registration of persons auditing annual financial statements in non-member countries of the European Union. 10. "Competent authority' means the body or bodies designated by law to which the regulation and/or supervision of the activities of registered auditors or specific functions of regulation or supervision are entrusted. The reference to a............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. supplied quality control training for registered auditors and endorsed by the Board for Quality Control of Audit Services under the IDES. 12. A person who does not exercise a financial audit activity is any natural person who, during his participation in the public oversight and during the three-year period immediately preceding that participation, has not carried out a financial audit within the meaning of that law, has not held shares, shares or other securities issued by the undertaking concerned, has not been a member of a management or control body of the company in question and has not been employed by or otherwise associated with the company in question. 13. The total amount of sales revenue from the activities of the registered auditor, reduced by trade concessions, value added tax and other directly related taxes, is net of sales revenue. Where the registered auditor exercises an audit activity directly, the net sales revenue for the purposes of the Law shall cover the total amounts of sales received from the natural person directly from the activity of the trading company through which it provides audit services and from its participation in a civil company under the Law on Obligations and Contracts, where applicable. 14. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 15. A group auditor is a registered auditor who conducts a financial audit of the consolidated financial statements of an undertaking. 16. A third-country auditor is a natural person who conducts a financial audit of the annual financial statements of an undertaking established in a third country and which is different from a person registered in a Member State of the European Union. 17. The Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of the 18. "Oditor profession' is the profession of registered auditors for the provision of financial audit services relating to or similar to audit services, directly or through a company. 19. "Oditor's commitment" is a commitment to a financial audit. 20. A third-country audit firm is an undertaking, irrespective of its legal form, which conducts a financial audit of the annual financial statements of an undertaking established in a third country and which is different from that registered as an undertaking in a Member State of the European Union. 21. The financial audit is an attempt in the field of accounting, financial reporting and auditing. 22. The main activity is the business of the trading company where the total value of the net sales revenue from this activity is more than 50 percent of the total net sales revenue for the reporting period. 23. A responsible auditor is an auditor: (a) designated by the audit firm as managing and primarily responsible for carrying out a financial audit on behalf of the audit firm; or (b) designated by the audit firm as managing and primarily responsible for carrying out the financial audit of the group's financial statements, and an auditor designated as managing and basically responsible for carrying out the audit of the financial statements or of the main subsidiaries, in the case of group audit; or (c) signing the audit report. 24. "Entrepreneurship" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 of the Accounting Act. 25. The offence committed within one year of the issuing of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the violator for the same type of infringement shall be repeated. 26. A public interest entity is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 22 of the additional provisions of the Accounting Act. 27. The financial reporting framework adopted by the undertaking is the financial reporting framework adopted by the undertaking when drawing up the financial statement that is appropriate in terms of the nature of the undertaking and the purpose of the financial statement or which is required by a law or by another regulatory act. The applicable financial reporting framework shall determine the form and content of the financial statement. 28. The accounting standards representing the general framework for the preparation of annual financial statements under Chapter 4 of the Accounting Act are applicable. 29. It is a period of 12 months of professional activity by registered auditors starting on 1 July and ending on 30 June of the following year. 30. "Professional skepticism" is such behaviour that is called into question and careful consideration is given to conditions that may be indicative of possible inaccuracies due to error or fraud, as well as a critical assessment of audit data. 31. "Professional activity of a Member of the IDES' is the activity of providing services requiring accounting or related skills carried out by the members of the IDES, including financial audit commitments, for reviewing financial information and for expressing security other than audit or review, under agreed procedures and for compilation. 32. The statutory financial audit activity and audit-related services shall be the professional activity of the registered auditor. 33. "Professional judgements' is relevant, adequate and appropriate to the circumstances of applying the practical training received, knowledge and experience of the registered auditor in accordance with the auditing standards, ethical requirements and the applicable accounting basis for decision-making in the conduct of the financial audit. 34. "Inquiry' is the implementation of a set of procedures to review the work of registered auditors in order to disclose and assess incorrect implementation of statutory financial audit commitments and audit-related services in relation to the requirements of applicable audit standards and legal provisions. 35. A reasonable level of security is a high level of security expressed positively in the audit report as a assurance that the information.. subject to the audit does not contain significant deficiencies, errors and shortcomings. 36. "Registered auditor" is a natural person or company entered in the register under art. 20 which has the right to sign audit reports with an opinion on financial statements. 37. A registered auditor from a Member State of the European Union shall be a natural person or a company which has acquired law in a Member State of the European Union to sign audit reports with an opinion on the annual financial statements of undertakings. 38. The Board of Directors shall be responsible for the management and representation of the undertaking in question. 39. The management function is a function involving the performance of management and control functions of structural units which are directly related to the implementation of the main subject of the undertaking's activity. 40. The audit-related services are: (a) audits of financial statements drawn up in accordance with special purpose frameworks for regulatory or supervisory purposes of undertakings of public interest; (b) security expression commitments intended for a wide range of users and other than audits or reviews of historical financial information, of undertakings of public interest; (c) security commitments on greenhouse gas accounts. 41. "Related persons" is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 42. "Narrow links' is a concept within the meaning of Article 4, § 1, point. 38 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176/1 of 27 June 2013) 43. The remuneration shall be calculated on a pre-defined basis relating to the result of a transaction or of the work carried out. The remuneration shall not be considered conditional when determined by a court or a competent authority. 44. "Financial instruments" is a concept according to art. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 45. The number of persons other than the management of the holding company and/or the specific users of the financial information referred to in the contract for the service concerned is unlimited. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u211	Thank you. Let's make this a long paragraph. Dear colleagues, speeches? I won't. We are voting for the name of the division of the additional provisions, texts of the importer, edited and supported by the Commission for § 1 and § 2. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Iankov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group, I want a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u213	I'm calling a 15-minute break. At 6:10, we reconvene to continue the meeting. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u214	Honourable Members, we continue with the report at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u215	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 4 by proposing the following version of § 4: ............................................ The President and the members of the Commission for the Public Supervision of Registered Auditors shall continue to exercise their powers until the expiry of the term of office for which they have been elected. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported in principle by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. For carrying out audits of financial statements of undertakings of public interest and audits of financial statements under the Insurance Code, the Social Security Code and the Credit Institutions Act for reporting periods ending on 31 December 2016, the repealed Act on Independent Financial Audit shall apply. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs supported in general. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev, supported in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, supported by para. 1, 2, 3 and unsupported by para. 4. The term referred to in Article 1 (4) shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 65, para. 3 may be extended up to a maximum of 7 years when more than one statutory auditor or more than one audit firm is appointed after the maximum duration of 7 years and provided that the statutory audit ends with the submission of a joint audit report within the meaning of Art. 51, para.5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) An undertaking of public interest which has committed to a mandatory financial audit by 16 June 2014, including, with a registered auditor who has provided, by that date, the same undertaking with mandatory financial audit services for 20 years and more consecutive years, cannot accept or extend a binding financial audit commitment with that auditor as from 17 June 2020. (2) An undertaking of public interest which has committed to a mandatory financial audit by 16 June 2014, including, with a registered auditor who has provided, at that date, the same undertaking with mandatory financial audit services for 11 years and more consecutive years, but less than 20 consecutive years, cannot accept or extend a statutory financial audit commitment with that auditor as from 17 June 2023. (3) An undertaking of public interest which, until 17 June 2016, including a commitment to a mandatory financial audit with a registered auditor, which, until 16 June 2014, including, has provided the same undertaking with mandatory financial audit services for less than 11 consecutive years, may adopt and continue binding financial audit commitments with that auditor until the maximum duration under Art. 1. 65. According to § 6 "A proposal of the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act, the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors and the Institute of Graduated Accountants shall bring their activities into line with it. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the Law, the Institute of Graduated Accountants shall bring the professional seals of the registered auditors in accordance with it. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Tanev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of the Law: 1. Undertakings of public interest shall establish an audit committee and adopt rules on its activities in accordance with art. 107, para. 7. 2. The Registry Agency shall keep its activities in line with it. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The Commission's acts on public oversight of registered auditors and of the Institute of Graduated Accountants issued until the entry into force of the Law shall apply insofar as they do not concern it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u216	That's it. Statements on the name "Transitional and final provisions" together with paragraphs 3 to 10 inclusive? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Since all texts are generally supported, except for Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal, which is generally supported by para. 1, 2 and 3, and not only supported by para. 4, I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal in his unsupported section. Vote 89 MPs: 11 against 64 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. We vote on the name and paragraphs 3 to 10, including. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u217	According to § 9, there is a proposal of the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group supported by the Commission. The proposal of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and group has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u218	I didn't understand about Dimitar Bayraktarov. He writes to me that the proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u219	Yes, he announced it, Madam President, that the unsupported are withdrawing them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u220	He's retired all of them. I'm sorry. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u221	There is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev, supported in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Insurance Code: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: (1) The annual financial statements of the insurance, reinsurance, insurance holding company and mixed financial holding company with its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, their consolidated financial statements, where applicable, as well as annual references, reports and applications under art. 126, para. 1 shall be verified and validated jointly by two audit firms which are registered auditors under the Independent Financial Audit Act. Where the insurer is not entitled to access the single market under art. 16, the verification and certification shall be carried out by one audit firm; (b) para. 3 is amended as follows: Can't be an auditor under para. 1 audit firm in which the registered auditors to carry out the certification on its behalf are withdrawn as an auditor in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State or does not meet the criteria under art. 101a, para. 3. (c) para. Four is canceled. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 101a: "Instruction of auditors" Art. 101a. (1) Insurance, reinsurance, insurance holding companies and mixed financial holding companies with their registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria shall elect the auditors under art. 101, para. 1 after prior coordination of the selection with the Financial Supervision Commission. (2) The criteria for the coordination of the choice of auditors under para. 1 shall be adopted by the committee in agreement with the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. (3) Where no objection has been expressed by the Financial Supervision Commission within 14 days of the date of the request for coordination, the proposal for election of an auditor shall be deemed to have been agreed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 all over the words of an audit firm shall be replaced by the auditors under art. 101, para. 1.................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 125 is The Managing Authority of an insurance holding company or mixed financial holding company having its head office in the Republic of Bulgaria shall draw up and submit to the Commission the financial statements of the undertaking as well as the consolidated financial statements audited in accordance with art. 101, para. 1 within no later than 20 weeks after the end of the financial year. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 3 words of the specialized undertaking under art. 101s and 101s shall be replaced by the auditors referred to in Article 1. 101, para. 1.................................................................................. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the words the auditor's undertaking shall be replaced by the auditors under art. 101, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (b) c. 10 words are replaced by the auditors referred to under the Independent Financial Audit Act. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 and 4 the words the auditor's undertaking shall be replaced by the auditors under According to § 10, a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... The Code of Social Security (promote, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "by two registered auditors or by a participating undertaking' shall be replaced by "compatible by two audit firms which are registered auditors under the Independent Financial Audit Act'; (b) in para. 2 the words "senior and specialized holding companies" shall be deleted. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 187a: selection and appointment of auditors Art. 187a. (1) Pension insurance companies shall elect the auditors under art. 187, para. 1 after prior coordination of the selection with the Financial Supervision Commission. (2) The criteria for the coordination of the choice of auditors under para. 1 shall be adopted by the Financial Supervision Commission, in agreement with the Commission for Public Supervision of Registered Auditors. (3) Where no objection has been expressed by the Financial Supervision Commission within 14 days of the date of the request for coordination, the proposal for election of an auditor shall be deemed to have been made. According to § 11 the proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The law on credit institutions (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 1, t. 7 the word "Oditor' is replaced by "Oditors'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "from a participating undertaking which is a registered entity' shall be replaced by "compatible with two audit firms that are registered auditors'; (b) in para. 4 the word "video" is replaced by "video" and a sentence is created second: "BNB," agreed with the Commission on public oversight of the registered auditors, adopted criteria for coordination of choice. (c) in para. 6 the word "Oditor' is replaced by "Oditors'; (d) in para. 7, in the text before t. 1 the words "the auditor gives" are replaced by the auditors give and the words "the auditor conducts a review and expresses" are replaced by "the auditors carry out a review and a statement." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1, t. 4 the words to the auditor shall be replaced by the auditors to validate the auditor. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 1 the words "by a participating undertaking which is a registered entity" shall be replaced by "compatible by two audit entities that are registered auditors". According to § 12 the proposal from the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14, by proposing in art. 38, para. 11 words.............................................................................. 74 of the Law to be replaced by................................................................................................. 1-10. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Chapter fourteen, in the name of Section III, the word............................................................................................ 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words "receipts' shall be replaced by "receipts' under the Independent Financial Audit Act. (b) in para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'; (c) in para. 3 the words "supplied' and "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied' and "supplied' respectively. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 1, t. 3 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16, and shall propose it. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 3, p. 7 the word "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19, and shall propose p. 2 to be amended as follows: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 296, para. 5 the word "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced Under § 18 "A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. The Bankruptcy Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 1 The preparation of the assessment under art. 80, para. 1s and 1s are replaced by the words.. the completion of the inventory and the valuation under art. 52, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 7 the words "specialised undertaking' shall be replaced by a company of the auditor. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 172, para. 2 the words supplied are replaced by the supplied auditor under the Independent Financial Audit Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 188, para. 4 the word "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 222, para. 8 the word "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 25. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of new paragraphs 24 and 25. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 26 and 27: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector (prom., SG...) in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 and 3 are amended as follows: For the purpose of carrying out the tasks under this law, the Minister of Finance shall be assisted by staff in a branch in the specialized administration of the Ministry of Finance, which is directly subordinate to it. (3) The employees of para. 2 must have completed higher education and acquired a Master's degree of education and at least three years in the field of internal control, internal or external audit. § 27. The Act on Internal Audit in the Public Sector (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: The internal audit in the Ministry of Finance may be carried out by internal auditors within the section of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector, in which case the head of the unit is also head of internal audit in the Ministry of Finance and must meet the requirements of art. 21, para. 1 and 2. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 2 and 3 are amended as follows: For the purpose of carrying out the tasks under this law, the Minister of Finance shall be assisted by officials in the section under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act. (3) The employees of para. 2 must meet the requirements of art. 21, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal by the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Civil Aviation Act (promise, SG...) in art. 48 the word "supplied' is deleted; Under Paragraph 24, the Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer under para. 2-6 which are reflected in their systematic place in a new § 5, § 7 and a new § 8, does not support under para. 1 and proposes that § 24 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u222	Statements under paragraphs 11 to 24 by importer? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 11, § 12, § 13, § 14, § 15, § 16, § 17, § 18, § 20, § 21, § 22, § 23, § 24, § 25, § 26, § 27, and § 28. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Paragraph 24 of the Commission's report states that, in principle, this text of Paragraph 24 para. 2 to 6 are systematically reflected in the new paragraphs 5, 7 and 8 already voted on, and the Commission therefore proposes that § 24 by importer be rejected. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 92, none, abstention 8. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading and the Independent Financial Audit Act. Next item: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE 2014 CONSTRUCTION AND ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE 2015 CONSTRUCTION The opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will present to us Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm presenting. "COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2014, No 520-00-23, submitted by the Commission for Protection of Competition on 26 May 2015. At its regular meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2014. The meeting was attended by Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition. The Commission for Protection of Competition is an independent specialised state body whose main task is to protect and create conditions for the development of competition and free initiative in business, including through the exercise of control over the legality of expenditures by means of the public procurement system and the provision of concessions. In 2014, the Commission for Protection of Competition formed a total of 1280 proceedings, of which 1102 under the Public Procurement Act, 9 under the Law on concessions and 169 under the Law on Protection of Competition. During the reporting period, the Commission ruled with 1173 decisions or definitions with which the relevant proceedings under the Law on Protection of Competition, the Law on Public Procurement or the Law on concessions were concluded or imposed fines on natural persons for infringements they committed. By the decisions adopted in 2014 the Commission imposed fines and property penalties of 33 912 888,84 BGN. After the presentation and discussion of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: DECISION on the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u224	Colleagues, with just one clarification, after the amendments to our Rules of Procedure have been made. 10 is renumbered as para. 11, so the reason is:.. on the grounds of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 11 - It is the same, only the numbering is different from our rules. Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. You are also welcome to present the report for the next period.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u225	"COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2015, No 620-00-12, submitted by the Commission for Protection of Competition on 27 May 2016. At its regular meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Annual Report on the Activities of the Competition Commission for 2015. The meeting was attended by Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition. In 2015, the Commission for Protection of Competition formed a total of 726 proceedings, of which 557 under the Public Procurement Act, 10 under the Law on concessions and 159 under the Law on Protection of Competition. During the reporting period, the Commission ruled with 703 decisions or definitions with which the relevant proceedings under the Law on Protection of Competition, the Law on Public Procurement or the Law on concessions were concluded or imposed fines on natural persons for infringements they committed. By decisions adopted in 2015, the Commission imposed fines and property penalties amounting to BGN 24 861,930,52. After the presentation and discussion of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: DECISION on the 2015 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u226	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are witnessing two reports from the Commission for Protection of Competition, which are for the period 2014 - 2015 and which the two committees propose to us to be adopted. I would ask: why are we, as Parliament, provided that we have such a well-functioning Commission for Protection of Competition and we have no problems, and we have to accept the report on its activity, set up a Commission of inquiry into doubts whether or not there is something that is within the prerogatives of this Commission? If she had done her job, as we were offered to accept the report on her work uncritically, we probably wouldn't have had to make such an inquiry committee. I would like to introduce you to three of the chapters in the 2014 report, for example, what the Commission report says in "III." Abuse of monopoly and position-bearing. "1." Procedure and decision-making In 2014, a total of 20 proceedings were initiated in the Commission, which have the object of establishing the existence or absence of infringements under Chapter Four of the Law on Protection of Competition. Of these, 17 are at the request of interested parties, 2 on their own initiative and 1 on the Commission's decision on a new decision returned by the Supreme Administrative Court. One of the proceedings has also been initiated under art. 102 TFEU in accordance with the obligation arising from art. 3, para. 1 of Council Regulation No 1/2003, the Commission to apply to abuses of a dominant position, together with national law of competition, and art. 102 TFEU, where trade between the Member States of the European Union is concerned. What decisions and definitions do we have in this report? ..2.1. In 2014 the Commission gave a total of 15 decisions concerning the implementation of art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and/or Art. 102 TFEU. The number of decisions issued in 2014 is as follows: 5.. in proceedings initiated in 2012; 9.. in proceedings initiated in 2013 and 1.. in proceedings initiated in 2014 and with them: (a) on the basis of art. 60, para. 1, t. 2 et c. Art. 3 and Art. 77, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 2 The Commission has established an infringement of art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and has determined the type and amount of the sanction in accordance with the provisions laid down in the Law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In two of them, the Commission also ruled that the infringements should be terminated; (b) on the basis of art. 60, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Protection of Competition the Commission has found that there has been no infringement under art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and under art. 102 TFEU - 9 decisions. 2.2. For the same period the Commission on the basis of art. 74, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Protection of Competition with 10 definitions has claimed an infringement of art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition of the Opposite. The application of allegations of infringement is a legal instrument which is first introduced into the legislation with the adoption and entry into force of the new Law on Protection of Competition published in the Official Journal of 28 November 2008 and is in force on 2 December 2008. It is fully consistent with the best practices in the field of competition law and is consistent with the practice of the European Commission. According to him, in the antitrust infringement proceedings, where the investigating authority considers that there is sufficient evidence of an infringement, it is necessary for the party to accept and claim an infringement before a decision is taken on the substance. They shall state the facts and circumstances established and shall set out the economic and legal conclusions reached by the Authority and shall give reasons to believe that an infringement has been committed. This is a mechanism which, to an even greater extent, guarantees the right of defence of the parties and enables a more effective solution to the competitive problems encountered on the markets concerned, since, following the alleged infringement, the parties to the proceedings have the opportunity to submit their views and to state their objections and to provide further evidence which the Commission takes into account when making its final decision. During the reporting period, the Commission has made 10 allegations of infringement under art. 21 and/or Art. 102 TFEU: - "Bulgargaz" EAD. The claims are an infringement of a dominant position on the public supply market of natural gas in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which can prevent, restrict or distort competition and affect the interests of consumers by imposing unfair commercial conditions under the contracts for the public supply of natural gas for the period 2 August 2010. " 31 December 2012; " Note, the report is for 2014. Two years are trying to see what happens in time, how it happens and why it happens. svtvvv Bulgaria Eszvvvv Bulgaria EAD, The claims are for infringement under art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 102 TFEU on the abuse of the dominant position of the EVN Group through the application of a common strategy on the market for the supply of electricity to final non-bit customers connected to the electricity distribution network of medium and low voltages of Bulgaria Electricity distribution company, which discriminates against independent traders outside the Group and restricts the trade in electricity through the exchange of essential information in the Customers Group, which switch from supply regulated at freely agreed prices and hinders the process of initial exchange of the final supplier with a supplier at freely agreed prices;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u228	We've read them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u229	"CEZ Distribution Bulgaria" JSC, "CEZ Electro Bulgaria" and "CEZ Trade Bulgaria" JSC. The claims are for infringement under art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 102 TFEU on the abuse of the dominant position of the CEZ Group by applying a common strategy on the market for the supply of electricity to final non-bit customers connected to the electricity distribution network at medium and low voltage of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria - of "ENERGO-PRO Sales" JSC, "ENERGO-PRO Networks" JSC, "ENERGO-PRO Energy Services" Ltd. The claims are for infringement under art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 102 TFEU on the abuse of the dominant position of the Energy-Pro Group through the application of a common strategy on the market for the supply of electricity to final non-bit customers connected to the electricity distribution network at medium and low voltage of the Energy-Pro Networks Ltd., which discriminates against independent traders outside the Group and restricts the trade in electricity by exchanging essential information in the Customers Group from delivery at regulated prices to supply at freely agreed prices and hinders the process of initial exchange of the final supplier with a supplier at freely agreed prices; - CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. Statements of infringement of art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition, which consists in determining and imposing unjustifiedly high prices of access to the pillar energy distribution network, low voltage, preventing, limiting and distorting competition in the defined affected market and affecting the interests of consumers; - "ENERGO-PRO Networks" AD. Statements of infringement of art. 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition, which consists in determining and imposing unjustifiedly high prices of access to the pillar energy distribution network, low voltage, preventing, limiting and distorting competition in the defined affected market and affecting the interests of consumers; - "ЕВСВЕВ България Електресправи" ЕАД. Statements of infringement of art. 21 of the HPC, which consists in setting and imposing unjustifiedly high prices of access to the low voltage pillar distribution network, preventing, limiting and distorting competition in the defined affected market and affecting the interests of consumers; - "Vik Steneteau" Ltd., town of Troyan. Allegations of infringement under art. 21 of the VPC, expressing abuse of a dominant position, which constitutes a unilateral imposition of prices for the services provided by the VKK company for the reception, disposal and treatment of the waste water industries of Lesoplasts JSC (with the name of Velde Bulgaria.) which can prevent, limit or distort competition and affect the interests of consumers. There are two interesting cases here for Sofia. - "Toplofication Sofia" EAD. Allegations of infringement under art. 21 of the HPC, consisting of imposing unjustified prices on companies carrying out a private distribution of heat resulting in them being placed at a disadvantage; - "Sofiyska water" AD. Allegations of infringement under art. 21, t. 1 of the LPC, in the form of abuse of a dominant position, carried out by charging interest for the delay of official debts for the service used for the supply of drinking water, the removal and purification of waste water in the territory of Sofia Municipality during the months without a report of a commercial measuring instrument affecting the interests of consumers and constitutes the imposition of unfair commercial conditions within the meaning of art. 21, t. 1 of the ZPC. In 2014, in three cases where the Commission has claimed an infringement under art. 21 of the WPC, the defendants have taken advantage of their right to be heard at an open meeting of the Commission. As a result of these claims, the Commission has taken certain actions, imposed property penalties and fines accordingly. With six decisions on grounds of art. 77, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 2 and in relation to Art. 60, para. 1, t. 2 et c. 3 of the LPC, the Commission has detected violations of Chapter Four, art. 21 of the LPC and in this regard, as also mentioned in the Commission report which examined this report, imposed property penalties in total of BGN 28 809 482 as follows: And they're listed here... I will allow you to know what the amounts are to see the difference between how we treat private enterprises, how we treat the state enterprise. By Decision No 64 of 22.01.2014 the Commission imposed a penalty of 266 thousand and 40 BGN. of "Energo - Pro Networks" AD for committed infringement under art. 21 of the WPC constitutes abuse of a dominant position by delaying the process of accession of a renewable electricity producer. Notice.. 266 thousand and 40 leva. are awarded for the fact that, respectively, the Energy-Pro Networks has refused to join or has refused the accession of a renewable electricity producer. [[Noise and lines.]] With a solution. I'm not arguing... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Madam President, do I have to go into dialogue with my colleagues or...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u230	Colleague Bajraktarov, I gave you a sign that the people's representative has time...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u231	Philosophy is being made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u232	He justified the conclusions of the report. Please, guys! It refers to the facts of the report in order to draw relevant conclusions. At least that's how I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u233	Please, Madam President, first of all, extend my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u234	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u235	And ask your colleagues to wait for the end after all. If I've done something wrong, I'll end up taking the consequences, but I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u236	But I expect a procedural proposal, excuse me, Mr. Ermenkov. I expect a procedural proposal, if anyone wishes, to extend the time until this item is completed on the agenda, because otherwise we are up to 7:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u237	Don't interrupt my speech, if you don't mind, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u238	Well, I have to stop you at 7:00 if we don't do this procedure. I'm giving you the opportunity to offer it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u239	I'll suggest by acceptance of this point, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u240	Are you making this procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u241	I am making a procedural proposal to extend Parliament's working time to the adoption of this point, but let us vote on it after I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u242	If you don't mind, let's vote now and then you'll finish your...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u243	But no, now we're going to start a series of procedures, because we know each other, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u244	All right, keep talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u245	Let's do our job, and if we don't have time to vote on the procedure, then we won't vote on it, what to do. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, we're wasting our time. Where was I at Decision No 280... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u246	Colleagues, it's not normal! The atmosphere in this room is not normal to speak to the people's representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u247	If you want, I can once again explain to you that I am doing things that are related to each of you, because it is a monopoly situation in the area of electricity, water supply and things that the Commission has been trying to do. You'll find out in the end when I get to this point, what she's done and if she's done with it. So let's be very coworkers, let's hear each other out and listen to each other's readings! I'm not reading you anything else, by the way, it's nice to get into...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u248	Read it at home.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u249	Please, Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u250	Ms. Karayancheva, as a result of the election, you can read your things at home.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u251	But don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Ermenkov. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u252	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry about the emotional reaction. By Decision No 280, of 5 March 2014, the Commission imposes that I will miss it. This is about Transcom Bus Station, which is not related to our work, but we will move on to Decision No 641 of 14 May 2014 the Commission imposed a penalty of 61 881 BGN. of "Topplofication Sofia" EAD... [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, if this continues, I would ask you to suspend the parliamentary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u253	Colleagues, please. We still have four minutes until the meeting is over. Be nice!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u254	The Commission imposed a penalty of 61 881 BGN. of "Topplofication Sofia" EAD for committed infringement under art. 21 of the HPC, which is to impose unjustified prices on companies carrying out a private distribution of heat as a result of which they are put at a disadvantage. Have you noticed.? 61 881? 266 040 лв.! Notice! By Decision No 1054 of 29 July 2014, the Commission imposed a penalty of 23 million 377 thousand and 600 BGN. Did a private enterprise impose this on him? No, it's not, it's true. She imposed it on Bulgargaz "EAD" for violation of art. 21 of the FTC, which is to impose unfair commercial conditions. By the way, since we're talking about this amount, I'm going to tell you exactly what the violation is about. With the decision, as I told you, for abuse of dominant position production KZK 840/2010 was formed at the request of Sofia Gaz.Gaz., "Overgas North" JSC, "Overgas West" JSC, "Overgas South" JSC, "Overgas East" JSC", notice all private companies in the field of gas supply and gas distribution, for detection of violations under art. 21 of the ZPC with a claim of abuse of dominant position in the supply of natural gas by the company in relation to the proposed additional agreement and instructions for filling requests for the quantities of natural gas 2011. The submiters of the request for gas distribution companies, which are supplied with gas under supply contracts concluded with the company Bulgargas. I'm going to do a little lyrical detour here. What has now caused the Commission's reaction to competition has given the European Commission the right to take action against the Bulgargas and you know it very well. This is something that is the reason why we are currently shaking whether our transmission system will remain owned by the state or will be private and that is precisely because of such distorted decisions, distorted claims of decisions. What's next?? In the period 2008 - 2010 - 2012 the dominant undertaking unilaterally forced its customers to continue the term of the contract concluded between them, without the possibility of negotiating and discussing the clauses therein. The company unilaterally imposed unfair commercial conditions by including a clause for unilateral cessation of trade... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u255	Colleagues, I cannot interrupt a MP who has time to complete his speech two minutes and 14 seconds! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Proceed, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u256	The company, according to the Commission for Protection of Competition, imposed, respectively, abnormal commercial, unfair commercial conditions by including a clause for unilateral termination of contracts under unexplainably listed conditions and so on and so forth. Such conditions were imposed in such a way as to oblige its customers to apply for quantities of natural gas for the following year under unilaterally imposed instructions and a table. By the way, once again, it is this decision of the Commission for Protection of Competition that gave the European Commission reason to initiate a criminal procedure against Bulgaria for unfair competition. Your prime minister, who is resigned, is wondering and continues to wonder, I hope he has found some solution on how to save state property on the distribution network. Something that I'm saying again is written in this report and something that you're willing to accept limitless, uncritical, just because it's written. The most important thing, however, among all these things that have been done is that any decision is appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. I regret that the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition is not there to ask him: since 2014, with these appeals, where have they brought him? Is there any result? What happened, did someone pay something to know what, how and where in Bulgaria is happening?! I ask you very much, when you are trying to vote for a bill, be so kind as to read what it says, then not to have to wonder why we have adopted a report that has been harmful to Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(World applause and shouting from GERB: More, more!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u257	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you could have read the report more expressively. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] What you didn't say, and it was the most important thing, so I take a line, first of all, that I would like to congratulate the newest member of the KPC. We have another report in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Tourism, which shows that in just two months the new composition of the KPC has formed 17 cartel proceedings. Something that no Board of the Commission for Protection of Competition has ever done. What my fellow Members of this Commission know is that these two reports for 2014 and 2015 are practical reports, which we have expressed, and are an indication of how no report should be made. As the point is extremely important, Madam President, I also take advantage of the procedure in my reply to extend the time of work of the National Assembly today [[GERB noise and lines]] Until examination, including t. 4 on the rearranged agenda. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u259	There's a statement. The speech procedures are a replica and a duplicate. It's time. When, at the time of the reply, before the meeting is closed, such a procedure shall be carried out, I shall be obliged to allow it upon completion of the duplicate until the vote. With the vote, the House will decide what it will do. Second line, Mr. Genov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u260	Thank you, Madam President, for the opportunity you've given me. Mr. Ermenkov spoke for 25 minutes, but apparently he will need more time because we did not see the conclusions of this report. What measures must be taken in order for these distortions to be able, as he said, to be removed?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u261	Third line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u262	Madam President, I do not know if my colleague Bajraktarov heard the beginning of my speech, because I have questioned the work of the Commission and its new composition from the very beginning of my speech. If this Commission had no problems in its activities, if this Commission were to do its job as people, we would not be in the need to set up a Commission for the establishment or absence of, what should I call, a cartel in the field of fuel. Mr. Bajraktarov, you well praised the new Commission, but unfortunately its work itself, here in Parliament, has been disproved as positive by the drafting of this Commission. As for the conclusions I had to draw, Mr. Genov, I think we are here intelligent enough people to draw our own conclusions that this Commission, in which any of the Chambers act, does not act quite in the interests and for the protection of competition, rather acts to protect some of the competition, that is to say to be protected and not in the conditions of competition. Thanks for the lines. Madam President, I hope you have not forgotten my request to extend the working time until the end of the point we are currently discussing. This was my proposal, which preceded another proposal, so I'm going to ask you to vote on it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-15.u263	Colleagues, the speech of the Member of the National Assembly continued after the fixed time of five hours for plenary, i.e. a minute and a few seconds after 19:00. I can't take away the possibility of replicas and duplicates, but all the other proposals.... are now willing to conduct a procedure, to extend the working time to one point to another point, I cannot allow them to vote at 19.06. [[Applause.]] I interrupted Mr. Ermenkov. I gave the whole room a clue shortly before 7 p.m. there was an opportunity for such procedures to be done. No one's reacting. Due to the completion of the time set for plenary, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 2:00 p.m. The opening of the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
