ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, today is the first plenary day of the Forty- Third National Assembly for the calendar year 2016. We wish to work in such a way as to meet the expectations of Bulgarian citizens and our voters. As the first Wednesday for January, the program is formed on the basis of the proposals under the order of art. 50, para. 8 On behalf of the parliamentary groups and in relation to rotation for this month. First in this series is the group of the Patriotic Front, which it has proposed and thus becomes the first point in our Programme.............................................................................................. There are no proposals from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. The proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme by the party group "Attack" is inadmissible because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 8. In this order, proposals can only be made on draft laws, but not on other acts adopted by the National Assembly. There are no proposals made by the ABB and GERB groups. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, and this becomes point two, a First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code was proposed, importers are Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the groups of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Reformation Block. The other points are as follows: 3. Dismissed from the position of Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, resigned from Monica Malinova, Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Law on Electronic Identification. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. The drafts are three with importers, respectively Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev "First draft bill," Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs - second draft bill, and Petar Slavov - third draft law. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank, of the other part, on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific countries and in the overseas countries and territories. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 13. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for today, Wednesday, starting at 12.00 p.m. And the last point. 14. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in its usual day and hour Friday, 11.00 Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 201 MPs: 175 against 7, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. An offer has been made under the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and it belongs to the MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, who propose that the first vote of the Law amending the Law on Family Aid for Children should be included in our weekly programme. Importers are Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. Who will present the proposal? Mr. Boychev, would you like to defend your proposal for inclusion on the agenda? Dragomir Stoynev is gone. If there's no one, I'm putting it to the vote. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Mr. Gokov, there is no way you need one of the importers from those who made the proposal for inclusion on the agenda. Here comes Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer your attention to the bill that we discussed and was submitted last year to the various committees. Unfortunately, not all committees have seen the Bill. It is about a single thing - how to help disabled children so that the compensation for them is equal to 70% of the minimum wage. Some will say that this is not of paramount importance and is not so important, but we believe that this is how we show respect for this group of people who have decided to raise their children, have not abandoned them, given them to specific institutions, but deal with this difficult problem themselves. With previous governments, the first GERB government actually froze this payment and did not level it with the minimum wage. Now, when the minimum wage is increased, I consider this a normal step - the compensation to be equal to 70% of the minimum wage. The government of Plamen Oresharski, of course, thawed these payments and they were linked to the minimum wage. Someone will say it's not nice to connect to the minimum wage. Why, ladies and gentlemen? This is one of the World Bank's main recommendations. In the 25 years of transition we listen to this institution and we see that the ideas and proposals it gives do not always lead to prosperity and have no positive effect on the Bulgarian economy and society. This is why we believe that the bill can help families looking at children with disabilities. Madam President, it is incomprehensible to me why so far, as far as I know, there are committees that have not yet seen the Bill. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One sentence and I'm done. I understand how thin the timing is, but let's not forget this. When we submitted the bill to committee, we were told: "Let us not bind it to the minimum wage, let it be in absolute value. " We proposed this with the Budget Act, but it was rejected. It was rejected to be a percentage of the minimum wage. Then let the MPs from the ruling majority say how they will help families who have children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You spoke 40 seconds out of time. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 179 MPs: 75 against 17, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Colleague, come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think the issue is extremely important, but I will not argue further. The possibility of passing the Bill in this configuration, which was obtained in the vote, is great. That's why I'm proposing a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u5	It's a re-vote. They voted 189 MPs: 87, against 22, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. A few messages. By letter No 554-00-717 of 18 December 2015, Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformist Block, informed me that on the basis of art. 22, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly declare its resignation from the post of President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. In accordance with art. 22, para. 4 of our Rules in cases where the President or Vice-President of a Standing Committee has resigned from office, the exemption shall only be declared in plenary without discussion and voting. By letter No 652-22-1 of 11 January 2016, I am informed that the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have adopted a decision on 24 December 2015 on the dismissal of the President of the Parliamentary Group and exclusion from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of the People's Representative Lutvi Ahmed Mestan. Please, on the basis of art. 13, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall order that the entry into the special register of the National Assembly of changes made to the composition of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms be communicated at the next plenary session, which is, in fact, the present. A protocol has been applied for the meeting with the respective decisions for the release of Mr. Mestan. The decisions are, I read verbatim: On the basis of a decision of the Central Council of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of 24 December 2015: "1." Disables from office the President of the Parliamentary Group and excludes from the Parliamentary Group of the DPS MP Lutvi Ahmed Mestan because of his dismissal from the position of President of the DPS and his exclusion from the Political Party Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 2. He elected the Chairmanial Council with the status of co-chairs of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in composition: Mustafa Sali Karadayi, Ruchen Mehmed Riza and Chetin Hussein Kazak. By letters pò following numbers of 11 January 2016, MPs Hussein Hasan Hasan Hafuzov, Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov, Lutvi Ahmed Mestan has also applied for such an application, as well as Mr. Aidoan Mutalib Ali, Shabanali Ahmed Durmush and Prof. Ayud Mutalib Ali. Dr. Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva has applied that, in relation to their disagreement with and concerning the decision to exclude from the DPS of the President, Mr. Lutvi Mestan and his removal from all positions held as of 11 January 2016, they are leaving the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, respectively gaining the status of MP, non-member of a parliamentary group. As regards Ms Mariana Georgieva's application from 11 January for leaving the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I inform you that according to art. 22, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-Presidents of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the Parliamentary Group from whose quota they are elected. On this basis, I declare the release of Ms Mariana Georgieva as Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science. In accordance with art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussing and voting. By letter dated 22 December 2015, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informed me and provided to my attention Decision No 1004 of the Council of Ministers of 2015 on the withdrawal of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, approved by Decision No 873 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, submitted for consideration to the National Assembly. A final audit report No 0400-105-815 and an audit opinion was received by the Court of Auditors on the annual financial statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2014. By my letter, the materials were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 4 January 2016, in the implementation of a decision of the National Assembly adopted in connection with the debates on the questioning of the MP, Mikhail Mikov and Cornelia Ninova, concerning the demographic perspective of the country, have received: 1. Updated National Strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 2. Report 2014 on the implementation of the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 3. Plan 2016 for implementation of the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 4. Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences "Aims, priorities and policies for implementation of the Strategy for Demographic Development of the Republic of Bulgaria." Those materials are sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The materials are available in the Library and in the Ministry of National Assembly. On 4 January 2016, the National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 November 2015 and Protocol No 1 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available in the Library of the People's Representatives' Attention. On 6 January 2016 the National Assembly received from the Economic and Social Council developed on its own initiative and adopted: resolutions and integrated policy for young people in Bulgaria and the realization of young people in the labour market; and opinions. The materials are provided to the permanent committees whose portfolio is embedded in them and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing statistical research results as follows: a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic market prices for November 2015; the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in December 2015; key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 30 December 2015; and information for November 2015 on the following indicators: - R & D indexes in the section of the R & D &amp; D, except for the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles. - indexes of industrial production; - Indexes of construction production. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The Court of Auditors submitted to the National Assembly: an updated annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2015, the annual audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016. The materials are sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Library of the National Assembly. On 12 January 2016, a Report on the results and analyses of the data from the National Centre for Public Opinion Study (NCCOM) was received during the first year of the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. The material is provided by e-mail to the Members of the National Assembly. Projects and draft decisions for the period from 16 December 2015 to 12 January 2016 as follows: Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between competent authorities on automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Foreign Policy is attached. Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, which entered into force on 1 June 2011. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Foreign Policy is attached. A bill ratifying the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. They will also see it in the Committee on Budget and Finance, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act. Importer "Nastimir Ananiev" and group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period from 20 July 2015 to 20 December of the same year. Importer is the Commission for disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will see it. A bill on labour migration and labour mobility. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will see it. Draft Law on the ratification of the Constitutional Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules and the certificate of contribution by donors under Annex No 2 of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will see it, as will the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will see it further. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Environment and Water as well as by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Following these preliminary organisational issues, we can move on to the expected declarations on behalf of the parliamentary groups typical of each beginning of a new session of the National Assembly. On a proposal from the Board of Presidents, the statements on behalf of groups should be broadcast directly on the National Radio and National Television. Please vote on this proposal, fellow Members. I don't think there's a reverse opinion that's why I didn't ask for one. They voted 201 MPs: for 197, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. By the number of parliamentary groups we will first hear the statement from the President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u6	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to believe that, in the 2016 parliamentary year, we will implement the reforms that, together with our coalition partners, have been putting into the management programme and which there is still very little work to do. There are opinions that stability in itself did not guarantee growth. We see stability in the state as the basis for predictable management actions, and predictability is mandatory for a country that wants to attract investment and develop. It is equally necessary for the ordinary person and for the business people because it favours the deployment of a personal and business initiative. We are often criticised that behind the responsibility for stability of the state, we mask the lack of significant reforms. I must make it clear that our governance neither replaces nor leaves its reformist intentions behind for the very simple reason that they have no alternative. This is why the GERB Parliamentary Group intends to continue to support the cabinet's reforms through its legislative initiatives during the upcoming political season. Gradually, we learned to appreciate that style and spirit of parliamentary activity, where we can together solve important issues for society and the state. Moreover, we strive to find supporters for our proposed legislation not only within the circle of our political partners, but also among the representatives of the opposition. We are looking for a consensus on the substance because we are aware that it is the political dialogue that we have achieved in this Parliament that is the key to implementing successful policies over the past year. We know that even the most sensible management decision, if it does not receive the necessary broad support from the MPs, there will be only one good intention. Through constructive dialogue over the past year, we were able to change the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which until recently seemed a politically unattainable goal. Remember how the work of the Forty-third National Assembly began in the presence of eight parliamentary groups and remember how difficult the current coalition government was to establish with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. At that time, many did not expect even a simple majority to be achieved to form a cabinet, let alone a constitutional majority of over 180 votes. But we have succeeded, and this is not just about changing one text from the Constitution, but about a package of measures that are the basis of further reform in the judiciary. As Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the National Assembly for having surpassed our ego and working together for a new image of the Bulgarian Parliament. At the same time, we should not allow internal party problems to be discussed from the platform of the National Assembly and to comment on analyses of party plants and leaders because this is not our job. We need to focus on drafting laws of public and national interest. Irregular attempts are made to convince the current parliament that it is not working and that new parliamentary elections are needed because of the swarming of parliamentary groups and the presence of more and more independent MPs. GERB has proven to seek collective and consensus work in this Chamber of the National Assembly, which discourages such claims. In them there is openly political dissatisfaction and aspiration for an election rematch. Boyko Borisov's cabinet brought Bulgaria back to financial stability. Following the excessive deficit since the end of 2014. [[Speaking from BSP LB: "Eee! "]] in 2015, we were able to meet the European financial criteria. With the help of the cabinet measures that we supported in parliament, the state managed to raise more than 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. More than 2014 the stabilisation of public finances has led to the rescue of European financial operational programmes on a number of strategic infrastructure projects. Thus, from the bad example of Europe in 2014 at the end of the programming period, our country became one of the winners in the successful use of EU funds. We have adopted national pension insurance reform, which for the first time in decades has changed the perspective of future pensioners in a positive direction. Strategically with legislative changes in education and security for the first time in years the National Health Insurance Fund has completed the year in practice without a budget deficit. In domestic politics Bulgaria returned among the respected European countries whose voice is being heard. Sofia was visited by a number of European leaders and the official Bulgarian delegations were wanted for the high European and global forums. The international recognition for Bulgaria is a stable and predictable partner. I would now like to point out some of the priorities of governance in our legislative work in 2016. In the fight against corruption, an accelerated debate on controversial texts in the Anti-Corruption Law and its adoption. Zero tolerance against domestic crime and serious organised crime. In the field of economics, the focus is shifted from dealing with the crisis to building a solid basis for employment and growth. Labour market policies must achieve flexibility and security. Particular attention is needed, such as long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. In the field of energy will be worked in several main guidelines: for liberalization of the energy market and the start of the new energy exchange; for exploration and extraction of gas in the Black Sea; a solution will be sought on the deficit problem in NEK; work will continue on the National Programme for Energy Efficiency, diversification of sources and routes for natural gas supply. In the field of finance, it is mostly necessary to spend more efficiently. The medium-term budget forecast for the period 2015 - 2017 of the Ministry of Finance is a prerequisite for achieving long-term economic growth. Work will be done to improve the business environment, increase employment, limit unemployment and reduce administrative burden. It remains essential for the implementation of its management intentions the optimal absorption of EU funds, which finance programmes by sectors with direct effect on growth, employment, income, competitiveness and public infrastructure. In the area of justice, judicial reform is a major priority and remains such in 2016. In the field of education will continue the work on the implementation of the National Strategy for Promotion and Enhancing Literacy. There will be efforts to invest in staff, teachers, as well as to improve relations between universities and businesses. With the changes in the Law on Higher Education, we intend to bind at least half of the grant to universities with the quality of training in them. We are determined to remove the shortcomings in the electoral legislation, which were clearly seen in the past local elections. We are aware that there is a great public interest in this matter, as well as expressed mass expectations for changing the legislative framework. If we summarize what has been said so far, we can argue that there is a good basis for building on what has been achieved in 2016. From our effective political interaction in Parliament, it is up to us to be able to transform stability into lasting political, economic and social growth. If this does not happen, we will bring Bulgaria back to the unstable 2013 and 2014. That is why we will not be forgiven if we focus on small-time and our own survival, because as the presidential elections approach, it is possible to prevail to take the frank political selfishness and the public priority to go into the background. Bulgarian citizens ask and need to know the answer to the questions: will we give way to our personal ambitions to work towards the realization of public priorities; will we support the full realization of judicial reform, or behind the mask of an angry child we will seek retribution by mobilizing our electorate for the next elections; will we argue with arguments our proposals for reforms in key sectors, or will we lie to people that only elections will solve their problems? The answers to these questions must be given sufficiently clearly during this parliamentary session. Honourable Members, I call on you to be forward-looking, cooperative and responsible in your work as MPs in the new 2016. Let us work consistently and for a better image of the National Assembly. Be healthy and hopefully our efforts are crowned with success! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. On behalf of BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria, Mr. Mihail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, while listening to Mr. Tsvetanov's speech, I imagined the village of Radyuvene, Loveska region. Today Vulcho Dishev and his wife Donna are buried. Two Bulgarians died of hunger, of coldness, of misery five or six days ago and their daughter does not report to be able to receive their pensions and return the cash to the store. We, honourable Members of the National Assembly, here in the National Assembly, when we vote when we speak, when we make a decision, must always imagine the other, the real Bulgaria, life outside the yellow pavement, life outside the Brussels and political vocabulary, life as it is for the millions of Bulgarian citizens in the 21st century in European Bulgaria. At the beginning of each year people are filled with hopes and the politicians they have sent to the National Assembly depends on how much these hopes are coming true and how much the policy that is being held becomes another disappointment for those who support one or another government, one or another power, one or another policy. Today we are living in an extremely complicated international environment. The policy of sanctions and contractions between Russia and the European Union continues, which the government actually supports, and the price paid by Bulgarian citizens: only in agriculture - 300 million losses, for Bulgarian agriculture. We from BSP left Bulgaria repeatedly during the past year, and this year we will be against this policy of the Bulgarian government and this policy which damages the Bulgarian citizens. The conflicts are continuing around us, which bring Europe to a political, social, cultural crisis under the pressure of millions of immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa, often with unexplained nationality and status that flood the Old Continent. The Bulgarian government does not yet have a clear position where Bulgaria is in this process and how it participates in the formation of positions, how much Bulgarian citizens will pay from these 3 billion, which the EU has negotiated with Turkey, how many refugees will be taken over in Bulgaria by those 400 thousand, who were agreed to transfer from Turkey to the territory of the European Union. Bulgarian citizens need to know this and we from BSP left Bulgaria will be extremely persistent in clarifying this issue, we will be very persistent Bulgaria to have an active position now when the revision of Dublin is being discussed. And last night, the European Parliament is discussing this issue. We will be very persistent for Bulgaria to be an equal member of the European Union - a member with its interests - to be in the family of Schengen and a member who should receive solidarity support for the refugee pressure on Bulgaria. Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia cannot be a second buffer zone against the refugee wave and here the government has a great responsibility to defend the interests of Bulgaria and not quietly wait for what the chiefs will say. We don't care if David crosses the southern border. We are interested in the English and other European governments to realise Bulgaria as a full and equal member of the European Union, which needs European solidarity. Dear MPs, at the moment there is no clear direction in foreign policy and we from BSP left Bulgaria will constantly offer the alternatives that the government will offer as solutions from Bulgaria to both the west and the east. No less disturbing is the domestic political situation. Especially in the area of crime, we are witnessing flagrant, blatant murders, we are witnessing an inability to deal with ordinary domestic crime, which is pressing and harassing people in small towns. And here the answers are absent, and here the political PR, the crisis PR replaces the real actions that Bulgarian citizens expect from a government that understands the most about crime and perhaps because it understands crime the most when it rules. Dear MPs, we will support the initiatives that are real and give opportunities to the Ministry of Interior, the services of Bulgaria to do their work against crime, but not within the political PR, not within the framework of the political mastery and use of the internal security system for political purposes, to suppress the business, to extract political dividends, to win the next elections with livekovski results and to take account of some dead stability, which more and more Bulgarian citizens feel as an invisible result in their pocket, an invisible result on their prospects for children to learn, an invisible result as access to health, after the so-called vacationers on the high philosophy of neoliberalism reforms The real alternative is the one that requires the Bulgarian Constitution. This year we will mark 25 years since the Constitution was established. We from BSP left Bulgaria will strongly defend the three main principles: Bulgaria to be a democratic, social and rule of law, because this is not a given, and it must be defended every day when freedom of speech in Bulgaria of the 21st century is violated when public media downloads and prohibits broadcasts for not liking and not being in tune, a political direct tone with the policy of today's right-wing of Bulgaria when laws relating to the demographic development of Bulgaria are rejected, when the tax system continues to be a system for the few rich and benefits the increasing accumulation and separation of these 5% of the millions of Bulgarian citizens. We from BSP left Bulgaria will have our priorities: progressive taxation, VAT, which differentiates and enables the costs of raising children to be other, social benefits for mothers and children, social solutions in order to have Bulgaria and not after 50 years, but by 2030, when the so-called Strategy of the Government is addressed, which is now offered to us as an alternative to what the parliament has obliged the government to clear, short-term measures. The government has failed to implement this decision by parliament, so we will be even more stubborn during this session this year, because we have the right to say: "We were consistent and we did not lie to our voters. We will be consistent in defending the interests of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, its co-chair, Mr Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, first of all, I would like to congratulate everyone and wish for a peaceful, happy and successful New Year! Ladies and gentlemen, on the first day of the new parliamentary season, our parliamentary group firmly states that the DPS is an independent Bulgarian, systemic, secular, democratic and Euro-Atlantic party. Appreciated in an adequate way the political challenges of our present day, the DPS has the necessary potential and the natural right to change and renew, but no one can cancel it and no one can bring the DPS and its voters before a manipulative, non-existent choice with the sole aim of obtaining a new personal political legitimization, certainly not to the detriment of Bulgaria's national interests. We are proud to recall that the DPS is the first pro-Natatov party in Bulgaria and the most jealous supporter of our membership in the European Union! And she also chose, on the basis of conscious values, the Euroliberal path of development, our party will consistently and irrevocably walk along it, especially after the great confessions we have received as a full member of the European liberal family. The DPS parliamentary group will consistently follow the decisions of its collective bodies when behind the parliamentary group's leadership is a single and powerful collective body, this creates an extremely strong motivation to generate an adequate and constitutive policy, self-confidence and even innovation in pursuing the objectives. We recall that on the basis of these principles and with the substantial contribution of the DPS and its leader, in the dawn of the transition appeared, and then developed the unique ethnic model in Bulgaria, properly appreciated both in the country and by the international democratic community. In the name of the national interests assessed as the first priority of our party and of that model, the DPS adopts responsible decisions including those assessed as a painful separation process with everything different from fundamental ideas and values for us. Created as a reaction to broken rights and decommissioned freedoms, the DPS is particularly sensitive and worried about the growing trend of a crisis of tolerance. We call on all political forces for wise and responsible behaviour in the accelerated rhythm of our times and to the new global challenges, especially with regard to the refugee crisis and regional conflicts. In this plan, we strongly and categorically condemn all forms of terrorism at different points of the world in recent months, including yesterday's terrorist act in Istanbul, assessing them as an unacceptable violation of democracy, modern civilization and humanity. We consider it unjustified to cross the correct political threshold for a political party to make a single assessment of specific geopolitical events. If there is such an act, it must be the product of parliamentary consultations with the participation of the executive, with a desire for a consensus decision and with a binding aim that the national interest, security and stability of the state be invulnerable. We have received good neighbourly, mutually beneficial relations with all the countries with which Bulgaria borders. We support the European Union's aspirations for membership of those who have not yet achieved it, but, at the same time, we hold on to bilateral respect for sovereignty and the rules of democracy and diplomacy. In our view, the government's work so far has been ineffective, given the serious demands for ensuring stability and generating reforms. It has already come to this point where these reforms are not just a necessity but are vital to the Bulgarian state and society. It is clear that there is an unjustified delay in the implementation of any reforms in each area. We are convinced that the disproportionate presence of the Reformation bloc in the executive power and especially their already intrusive talk of reforms, but without real ones, on the one hand creates a false impression of great national responsibility efforts being made, but on the other, it compromises the will, energy, labour and efficiency of the largest ruling political power. We remain in our firm position that the participation in the power of extremely nationalist parties preaching non-hidden xenophobia, ethno-centralism and, more generally speaking, a refusal to show elementary tolerance to differences of any nature in the Bulgarian society, aggravates the Euro-Atlantic path of development of the country, undermines fundamental democratic values and therefore, as so far, this reason will be one of the main reasons for setting up the Movement for Rights and Freedoms as an opposition force in the forty-third National Assembly. We call on all political forces to: firstly, genuine national responsible behaviour, avoiding destructiveism and deliberate confrontation; unwavering and consistent following the European path of development, defending European integration perspectives and democratic values; united efforts to stimulate economic growth and development, ensuring stability in the country through accelerated reforms and legislative changes. In our view, the efforts made during this parliamentary session for reforms and legislative changes should be directed in the following directions: firstly, judicial reform by adopting amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and procedural laws to further develop the progress made with recent amendments to the Constitution, but with clear guarantees against the control of the judiciary by political or economic circles; a change of the Election Code in order to correct and overcome proven disabilities in recent elections; legislation relating to the economic development of the country, ensuring sustainable growth by improving the business environment and investment climate, and not only through the absorption of European funds; legal changes creating the necessary legal conditions for the real improvement of the state of Bulgarian health, education and social security, rather than self-target exercises in reformation. The DPS parliamentary group reiterates its responsible state policy through the aspect of the political challenges and priorities of today's Bulgaria. Being an opposition party, we declare that any draft decision and proposal would meet our support if it was assessed for the benefit of our country's national interest and better European future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u11	On behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group, we will hear a statement from the group's co-chair Mr Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2016, we in the Reformation bloc insisted on accelerating reforms and for more ambitious results in key public sectors such as the judiciary, the system of anti-corruption measures, health, education, energy, electoral legislation, the pension system and administrative reform. In the previous year, a legislative basis was laid for reforming processes. Although a lot of constitutional changes have been made, the Strategy for Judicial Reform and Anti-Corruption has been voted on, legislative changes have been adopted in the areas of health, education, energy, economy, defence and security. European funding has been restored for projects that bring obvious benefits to both citizens and businesses and the state. Last but not least, Bulgaria has regained the trust of the European partners, investments are growing, serious economic growth has been realised, and in the complex geopolitical situation we have established ourselves as a country with established Euro-Atlantic values. Now there is a year ahead, which I would call the year of acceleration and growth. Bulgaria needs security for the lives and property of the people, security for the business, security through deep reforms, ensuring the effectiveness of the functioning of all vital sectors in the country. In this sense, we in the Reformation bloc condemn the attacks in Istanbul with multiple victims and say that the war on terrorism must be a top priority for both national governments and our NATO and European Union partners. The reform bloc has the ambition for more decisive reforms and strong measures for more actions to protect our national interest, both with regard to the refugee wave and the Schengen field, and the protection of the external borders of the Union, and towards ensuring the country's energy independence, as well as in our relations with partners in the Union, NATO and the region. That is why we offer colleagues from GERB an annex to the coalition agreement to ensure the priorities, the pace, the content and the periodic assessment of what has been achieved in reforms. Signing such a document is a routine practice in the countries with coalition governance. This means both Bulgarian citizens and the media and partners at any time to check the degree of implementation of these priorities and the implemented reforms. For us, achieving unity in the ruling majority is key to success. Dynamic or floating majorities may be quicksand for driving. Although insufficient, the amendments to the Constitution opened the door for changes in the judiciary, increasing the role of the Inspectorate, dropping the secret vote, increasing the authorities that may refer to the Constitutional Court. The Law on the Judiciary is now to be adopted to introduce the obvious vote on the Supreme Judicial Council, to adopt amendments to the procedural laws and to initiate a new criminal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to introduce electronic justice and to adopt a new Law on Child Justice. The reformist bloc believes that a broad public debate on subsequent constitutional changes should be initiated, including on issues of constitutional guarantees for the independence of the court. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the expected report by the European Commission on justice and internal affairs in Bulgaria will most likely be quite critical. In this sense, we expect quick and firm action by the new Minister of Justice to ensure a swift and effective administration of justice. A very important goal for the Reformation bloc is to create a system of anti-corruption measures - legislation and actions with the support of which to attract a maximum number of political forces. The fight against corruption is not a policy of one party or another, of some politicians or other, but a nationwide problem that destroys the trust of the people in the state and institutions, therefore affects everyone in this House. I do not think that there is a member or sympathizer of any party from here who does not welcome and support radical measures to combat corruption, so in this direction we rely that the National Assembly will achieve a remarkable breakthrough, and I therefore call on the parties to demonstrate political will to support the Corruption Prevention Act among those holding senior public positions. I stress that the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council has asked for sectoral plans to be established by ministries. This year we'll be watching them run. We will also initiate public debates on amendments to the electoral legislation, e-voting, machine counting, clearing the electoral lists from "dead souls", active registration, professional electoral administration, effectiveness of the compositions of the electoral committees. The reformation bloc considers it key to speed up administrative and pension reforms urgently. Forty percent of all pensions in our country are currently indisposed and this channel for draining state social security urgently needs to be closed. It is necessary to redefine the employees in the Ministry of Interior so that policemen on the ground remain in the first category and have better protection. We hold in 2016 ministries that did not carry out administrative reform to implement it, and we will be particularly demanding about this. In the field of education, we insist that all state educational standards be established and that textbooks be provided for the first and fifth grade, so that in September it can be implemented without any shocks the new Preschool and School Education Act. A serious goal is also the commitment of higher schools to the quality of education, as well as the adoption of changes in the Law on vocational education and training aimed at modernizing vocational education and training. One of the sectors where society expects serious acceleration is healthcare, where in the second year of management we aim to introduce the Electronic Health Passport and the Health Card, as well as to create a mechanism for linking funding with an assessment of the quality of medical activities and patient satisfaction, and this is the key and important result. For us, the economic growth in the second year of this governance will only be achieved after targeted reformist actions in the sector economy, tax policy and business environment, the adoption of the Public-Private Partnership Act, I am referring to a new law, the Industrial Zones Act and the Technology Parks Act, the practical implementation of the reform adopted in the laws on excises and tax warehouses, these are important measures. We also need to start financial support in 2016 of the targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha, border, mountain and semi-mountain and poorly developed areas. In 2016, the tax system must be maintained to prevent the introduction of new taxes or an increase in the tax burden. We also care about energy problems. We propose drawing up a cost optimisation plan for state-owned energy companies of not less than 15%, with a period of up to 12 months. Also preparing a preliminary assessment of the impact of liberalisation in the sector on electricity prices and compensatory measures to protect citizens and businesses. From the very beginning of the government, we have insisted on bringing the investigation of the draining of KTB to an end. The management of this year must ensure full publicity of the information from the international investigation for CCB, including for persons occupying or associated with persons holding public positions within the meaning of the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions, as well as effective actions to minimise the damage to the State from the Bank's bankruptcy. As regards the security and defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the amendments to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Act on the Reserve of Armed Forces, the implementation of investment projects for re-arming in the types of armed forces must be adopted. One of Bulgaria's most important policies is, in our view, the targeted and consistent efforts of all representatives of the state to adopt Bulgaria into the Schengen area and actively participate in the discussions on changes of Schengen legislation. Honourable Members, these are the main priorities in the new season, for which we will insist to implement and report publicly. I would like more colleagues to make sure that the acceleration of reforms has no other alternative. The Reformation bloc is united in this conviction and the MPs will work hard to achieve the above objectives. I count on a good dialogue in Parliament and between the institutions in the process of achieving the balance between security and freedom. Bulgarian citizens expect a high level of consensus and political consolidation from us in defending national interests, which are above all else. A successful and successful political season! Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, Mr. Valeri Simeonov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It has been a little more than a year since the activity of the Forty-third National Assembly and at the beginning of the new parliamentary session first in 2016, we have a political obligation to take account of what has been done so far and to set our political priorities through the prism of the pre-election commitments made. Despite the expert predictions of mastite political analysts that the composed of eight parties and coalitions parliament will survive only a few months, Bulgaria had one year of relative stability and development. This is due to the applied non-standard, I would say an unconventional model of political governance, which rested not on a single party or coalition parliamentary majority, but on a pre-coordinated management programme supported by four political forces with different programming platforms, but on individual issues even diametrically opposed. The seemingly impossible at the beginning of the mandate was made possible thanks to the pre-conflict management programme supported by the Patriotic Front. Although it was drawn up after severe and lengthy negotiations, it became clear that it is not important which individuals take specific management positions, but whether there is agreement and compliance with the agreed objectives. The patriotic front did not want to take power positions to prove that politics is not just power and positions. It is primarily duty and service to national interests. This new model has provided a year of stability for our homeland, a year in which all neighbouring countries have experienced and experienced severe government turmoil, public unrest, early elections, bankruptcy and instability in general. During the same period, despite the heavy inheritance, Bulgaria managed to come out, although not in the best way from the crisis with CCB and at present there is an undisputed banking stability. Without withdrawal of additional loans, and only by re-negotiating the old ones, the financial situation is stabilized and more than 2 billion have entered the budget. lv. incomes more than expected and planned. The proceeds on a number of suspended European programmes were restored, which ordered Bulgaria in the top places in the recovery of European funds. I'll stop there. Even the above-mentioned facts so far justify a positive assessment of the previous work of the National Assembly and the government. I will save the listing of other indicators as a result of stable governance, which are very reasonable or unfounded by the opposition, but it is obvious that dialogue and the search for sharp solutions in the name of national interests, as well as overcoming party egocentrism, give their undisputed results. When, on the first day of the National Assembly's work, we placed as a priority on the Patriotic Front the urgent completion of security facilities along the border with Turkey, we were designated by some as xenophobics and national populists. However, the past year has proved our right and today we are witnessing the majority of European countries tightening control and building fences along their borders. Thanks to its fence and hard policy, Bulgaria now enjoys the slightest migratory flow compared to the other European countries, including the non-members of the European Union, our neighbours. A serious success on the Patriotic Front was the proposed and adopted moratorium on exports of raw wood, which allowed for a change of legislation in the direction of limiting illegal logging and timber exports. The intervention of the Patriotic Front was also important in detecting the abuse of energy for which a report from the Temporary Parliamentary Commission is to be submitted, as well as the amendments adopted in the laws on energy and renewables. This led to a limitation of losses and a partial recovery of the National Electricity Company, as well as to an increase in the cost of electricity for the household. The decisive position of the Patriotic Front led to the beginning of the procedure for the demolition of illegal buildings in the municipality of Garmen, which became termite with its interethnic clashes. Also thanks to our decisive intervention, the decision was adopted in the National Assembly on the recognition of Armenian genocide, and our position contributed to the rescue of the last-minute draft amending the Constitution before the collection of signatures for its introduction at first reading in plenary. The fact that in both cases the Bulgarian Parliament united with an impressive majority around these causes was significant. Due to disagreement with the other political forces, the amendments to the Election Code were postponed, one of our main tasks in the agenda of the Patriotic Front, but still at the insistence of the Patriotic Front changes were adopted in the Penal Code, increasing sanctions for buying votes and forging electoral documents. One of the most important results of the work of the Patriotic Front in the Forty-third National Assembly was the limitation of the political influence of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the removal of the corrupt party-appointed officers of the so-called Scrapping of the DPS from power. This consistent policy, as you know, is already giving its results, and this is only the beginning. Unfortunately, the current majority has delayed the resolution of a number of serious problems of Bulgarian society. During the adoption of bills, pure lobbying interests supported by the majority were often promoted. Such were the cases with the authorisation of the purchase of expensive electricity from animal biomass in the Energy Act, the revertation to the large producers of alcohol with the imposition of excise duties on small cauldrons, the same excise duty for cheap and expensive cigarettes, the introduction of the NRA-related measuring instruments for farmers and government petrol stations. As you can see, I'm beginning to list the shortcomings of the current government. The Law on the termination of long-term contracts with the US TPP is not yet in motion.Maritsa East 1 "Maritsa East" and TPP Maritsa East 3 "Maritsa East." The bill for the cessation of the racketeering against subscribers and non-abbons in violation of European directives was rejected. The proposals for changes in art. 417 in the GPC to limit the arbitrariness of private court contractors. One of the cons of the current government is the severe condition of the Bulgarian economy. The formally achieved and widely advertised growth is not enough nor shows a lasting trend for independent, regardless of European funds development. There is no necessary understanding that a stable economy and the creation of new permanent jobs may not be the result of European funds and illusory foreign investors, but only when severe administrative restrictions on the activities of small and medium-sized businesses are alleviated. Thus the initiative Bulgarian is always in the hands of corrupt officials. It is a mass practice to draw up regulations and regulations of ministries and agencies under the instructions of monopolies and cartels and to nullify the laws adopted in the National Assembly. It is not far-fetched to say that in Bulgaria the institutions do little to ensure a normal competitive environment for the business, and this leads to tax evasion and gray economy. The legal and tax pressure on the so-called "white business" at the expense of the non-registered and non-taxable shady business continues to continue. The managers are trying to compensate for the lack of control by the relevant collection agencies with new and new taxes and fees. At the same time, the issue of a receipt began to become an increasingly rare phenomenon, unfortunately. The events of the end of 2015 related to family scandals in the DPS showed serious weaknesses in the system of national security and the protection of national interests. We did not hear an official position of the Foreign Ministry and of the Bulgarian State on the direct intervention of the Ambassador of Turkey and other Turkish diplomats who took part in an internal party struggle of political power represented in the Bulgarian Parliament. The shelter at the embassy and the provision of security to a Bulgarian political leader from a foreign country, the tour of foreign diplomats at internal political events in the role of the bodyguards of the same leader in Bulgaria cannot be left without consequence by the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry. The patriotic front insists on giving a note and a request to recall the Turkish ambassador. We are also expecting an official position of the Bulgarian services in connection with the finding of equipped with a super-contemporary wiretapping equipment SUV "Audi KU 7" with Turkish registration number TR 16 EICH 92 in the underground garage of the SPA Hotel "Dragalevtsi" whose owner is the brother of the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov. Four maps of Turkish intelligence MIT officers were found in the SUV. Incomprehensible is the inaction of the Bulgarian State in the direct intervention of the Turkish Religious Directorate (s) in the activities of the main and regional mufti. In the same for years Turkish citizens have been working and living, leading the activities of the Bulgarian Muslim institutions. Yet the one-year period has shown that a two-party coalition government [[the President signals that time has run out]] , supported by two more political forces, which implements the common Programme for sound governance, can successfully solve the vital problems of the state in the face of sharp opposition, but also of seeking and finding agreement within a four-party majority. For the upcoming political season, the Patriotic Front considers the following priorities vital: First: amendments to the Election Code related to the introduction of mandatory voting and active registration, electoral tourism, the agitation of foreign languages. Secondly: measures to support small and medium-sized businesses by easing administrative procedures. Third: the urgent adoption of the Law for the termination of long-term contracts with TPP Maritsa East 1s and Maritsa East 3s, the termination of contracts with failing RESs and heating. Fourth: reconstruction of the Ministry of Interior towards solving the problems of domestic crime. Fifth: completion of the construction of the protective facility along our border with Turkey to the very end of the mouth of the Rezovska River. Sixth: continuation of judicial reform, urgent adoption of laws relating to the judiciary; continuation of health reforms, limitation of abuses related to the Health Fund and pharmaceuticals; urgent measures against the demographic crisis and so on. In conclusion, the serious problems in Europe and in the countries with which we border define the unification of the nation in the name of the protection of national interests as only proper and responsible behaviour. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u15	On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, the declaration will present to our attention Mr. Svetlin Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, dear compatriots! The past 2015 has been extremely difficult both internationally and internally. Undoubtedly the event of the year was the flow of refugees and illegal immigrants across the territory of almost the whole of Europe. The last few days have once again proved to us the seriousness of this problem. I mean, of course, the events in Cologne and yesterday in Istanbul. The whole European community is not just facing a crisis related to a logistical problem, but a crisis of values, a civilisational obstacle that no country alone can face. Each country must clearly realise and assume its responsibility. The year was marked by a number of bloody attacks that put emphasis on security not only our country. The two attacks in the heart of Europe, in Paris, put many questions before the European Union, which also apply with full force to Bulgaria. Another very important thing: has the state taken advantage of its membership in the European Union effectively enough to solve the refugee problem? This issue is clear, as our southern neighbour Turkey negotiated from this same European Union three billion euros without being an associated member. The answer is no! Bulgaria did not take effective advantage of the possibility of financial assistance. Why? Perhaps because we do not have real policies aimed at Bulgaria and the needs of the Bulgarian population and not at Turkey or Russia or America or any other European or world state. I'll leave you to answer that question. We still have much work to do on judicial reform to achieve the objectives required by society. I believe none of us want to hear the expression anymore. We catch them, they let them go. I will use this emphasis as a starting point for the next event, important for 2015, namely police protests. They showed once again the inability to distribute funds in the Ministry of Interior. The Bulgarian policeman is deprived of uniforms, lacks official fuel, there is no safety in the workplace, while tens of millions of levs from the budget of the department sink nowhere. Despite the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Interior by 130 million in 2015, it was once again seen that the money did not go according to purpose and proved the undeniable economic regularity that more money in a given sector, without reforms and good management does not lead to a better service or product. The events of the past few days have demonstrated an absolutely debalanced system of internal order and security. Therefore, it is not the police officers who are responsible, but the management of the Ministry of Interior, which has no clear vision of reform in the sector. Another example of the problems in the Ministry of Interior were the local elections in 2015. The past local elections were the most manipulated and most unfair elections held in the last 25 years in Bulgaria. It is unnecessary to enter into the specifics of a number of misguided and frankly falsified protocols, a number of votes bought, a number of invalid ballots, a number not voted out and so on. The more interesting question is, why is all this possible? More importantly, is it reversible this time, or is there no return from the current situation?! In these local elections, the law was absent. The main element of statehood was absent, and I sincerely hope that we will never again witness such a farce. Despite the many manipulations and attempts to fake the results of the local vote, Coalition People's Union, our colleagues from the Bulgarian Democratic Center presented extremely well for the youngest Bulgarian political formations. Enough about last year. I believe that we have all learned the lessons for ourselves, and we will use what we have learned to achieve much better results in the sectors listed, because people require this of us. I will draw very briefly attention to the priorities of the group of BDZ People's Union during the new political season in the National Assembly. The legislative initiatives that we are going to propose, we consider to be extremely important and fundamental to some of them for the continuation of judicial reform, others coming from the voice of civil society. First of all, a change in the Law on the Civil Procedure Code, with which to reject the examination of the so-called "admissibility" before the VCC, which practically deprives Bulgarian citizens of the possibility of their cases being dealt with at a cassation instance. Secondly, a change in the Law which regulates the functioning of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. With it, we aim the state to recover its claims and also to guarantee compensation to the Bulgarian citizens who acquired compensatory instruments. Thirdly, a change in the Election Code to enable all parties represented in the National Assembly to be represented in the Central Election Commission as well. We foresee joint amendments to the Code, which will regulate candidates for president and vice president and be announced six months before the election date. Fourth, a proposal to amend the Law on Administration, which will create a legal opportunity for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts with persons to be appointed to positions of European programs and projects management assistants. Such a measure will provide a maximum flexible approach to ensure the necessary administrative capacity in managing authorities and beneficiaries. This will ensure the resources to ensure effective implementation of projects and programmes. I call on all of you, colleagues, from the other parliamentary groups to hear and support our proposals. On our part you can expect constructiveness and rely on our votes for constructive proposals, which are in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and solve the most ill problems of society. I wish all of us serious work, willpower and courage for real changes! Let us work so that in 2016 we significantly increase the trust of the people in the institutions and the National Assembly! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" "The Chairman of the group," Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u18	Clear the room, I don't see any interest in the important priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u19	I invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting another pointless political season in a parliament where nothing is decided, as it has long served as a transmission here to ratify another nonsense from Brussels or to pass some other lobbying law. You don't expect me to talk about an accelerated reform, because a reform in a concentration camp isn't being done? Reform is made by free people in a free country. You also do not expect me to talk about priorities and prosperity of our dear homeland, because there can be no prosperity in a country that has no sovereignty, a country that has no legal order, a country that has no army and no working economy. In a country like this, talking about prosperity is ridiculous. So I'm going to jump over these clichés that a lot of colleagues have come up with here. I do not want to deceive the Bulgarian citizens who are watching and listening to us, they know very well that from next year they can expect nothing better than last year. Therefore, to you, all here MPs, I will wish you in 2016, in the first place, to be free, in the second place, not to become the victim of a show murder, because this has started to happen very often in our country. This as a wish is enough, the rest you have and I hope in good health you will end this year as well. I will also not dwell on all these events that offend the Bulgarians, only they do not have the stands that we have, unfortunately. I will not dwell on the fact that a year and a month or two ago a coup took place in Bulgaria. A coup that brought down the legal government then dismantled the legally elected parliament to form an odysic coalition that today governs how? First of all, bringing the country into a huge debt that has never been seen and heard before, 21 billion. BGN, with interest rates. 30 put them on. This money will pay for generations after us. This is naturally a sign of good governance, isn't it, of stability? A government that made us a front line something that wasn't before, and that was the previous, bad government. We didn't become a front line. Yeah, we had U.S. bases yet, but we hadn't become a line on the front, stretched from the Baltic to the Bosporus. We are now. Now here, through the management of the Odysic coalition, which is in power today, in Bulgaria every other month, through two heavy American equipment arrives, and when heavy foreign equipment comes, something is prepared. I've spoken over these months many times from this tribune. There was no rumor here, there was irony, there was an attitude that I could call the softest irresponsible. It was irresponsible the behaviour of the rulers in terms of geopolitical realities. We have a threat of an acute conflict between Turkey and Russia. How did the government react? Not at all! Well, one of the parties in parliament reacted, changing their leader, but that's not enough, as we have a gross interference of a foreign country in our internal affairs, I mean the Republic of Turkey. On this occasion, we have submitted a declaration to the Office. I hope we live to see the moment when she enters the Chamber so that we can vote. In this declaration, we condemn the intervention of other countries, in this case Turkey, in our internal affairs. I think the government should have done it a long time ago. I think the Foreign Ministry should have given a note to the Turkish ambassador a long time ago and asked the government in Ankara to call it off as a persona non grata. And it hasn't been done so far. But now the season is about to begin, and it might happen. We'll see!? Since I do not want to dwell on the reactions of public organisations, of citizens, of various political and non-political formations on the subject of increasing crime, not otherwise, because we have stopped on this topic; not otherwise, because we have, before all, requested the resignation of the Minister of Interior, who has been elected here by you, the odysia majority with ovations and the finding that she is a woman. Even then we were of the opinion that she could not handle this job, that it was not for this job and it became clearer. Therefore, I will not repeat myself and say that this resignation of Mrs. Bachvarova is already late. She's not up to date, she's late. But even Bachvarova's resignation will not fix things, because things in a colonial territory, such as Bulgaria, are enslaved, without its own economy, can be corrected with moves that are in the direction of o-vo-god-to-no by colonial slavery. What could be such a move? I have to offer it to another government, like I've been doing for the last ten to eleven years. What the government will do, we'll see. But the move that can really move the country forward and bring jobs, raising the standard of living, moving Bulgaria's dead economy is the reconstruction of the South Stream project. What the caretaker government of Bliznashki did, in particular his Minister Stonov, should be corrected because, ladies and gentlemen, the only move one of the Bulgarian governments made with regard to South Stream was the letter by Minister Stonov, telling the Russian side that Bulgaria is ending this project. I'm skipping the media statements of this or that prime minister or minister. They have no legal value, they have no value of an interstate contract. That is why I am now addressing today's government and offering it from an opposition point of view, but from a state-owned and constructive point of view, to restore the South Stream Project. There's no better time than today. Turkey is in severe crisis as it executed the order from Washington to bring down the Russian fighter plane. This won't go without consequences. The crisis between the two countries will increase between Russia and Turkey. We will be very stupid if we do not use this moment and by written request, I repeat and stress it again, not by interviews in this or that media, by written request, officially by the Bulgarian government, we turn to the Russian government and say that we want to recover the works on South Stream. To continue the three signed contracts by Prime Minister Borisov in the cabinet Borisov 1 with the chief of the Russian Prime Minister and so on to continue this work. The next step to be taken by the Bulgarian government is to convene on our territory in Sofia, the heads of state of the countries interested in this project. First of all, Italy, Austria, Serbia at least eight countries in Europe are interested in South Stream. This is one third of the member states of the European Union. One third of the European Union wants a South Stream. This must be stated clearly by Sofia and in a cultural but persistent way to tell Brussels that we will do it, because while Brussels is wondering what to do life passes and goes away and Bulgaria is sinking further and further down as the other countries will support us in this regard. This, if the Bulgarian government, which is called, will have fulfilled its historic task. Whether he does or not, I'm not gonna go into hypotheses here, but I have to propose this move. I would like to explain and give another argument in support of my proposal and it is related to another, very sharp topic, which is also slightly jumped by the speakers, the flow of migrants, which is now becoming Europe's number one threat. You see what is happening in Germany, you see what movements are already emerging in Europe against this invasion of migrants. The European Union has practically shown its helplessness. Bulgaria must start building a wall with Turkey. Not a wire fence that anyone can cut with pliers, but a wall that Israel built in its own country against the Palestinians. The Democratic State of Israel, we all respect it, don't we? It built such a wall.. tens of miles high, three and a half meters high, and thus partitions the possibility of crossing certain territories. This should be done from Bulgaria. The next thing to be done from Bulgaria is to seek protection for the geostrategic project South Stream. In fact, we are receiving this protection automatically, ladies and gentlemen, because the danger of migrants, the threat of terrorism that is being spoken of at the moment, but nothing is being done, will be largely minimalized if a South Stream is being built. Why? Because behind it, first of all, will stand the most powerful military state in the world. She's going to protect this project. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because he's pretty much hers. From then on, we will be protected against what is the danger of 2016 and the coming years of breaking down, taking over Europe by barbarians. Therefore, if you are reasonable, accept my advice that it should not be so that in a few years you will say: "Abe, Siderov was right again, but we did not listen to him. " - Only then I do not know if Bulgaria will exist. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u21	On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, the Chairman of the group Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u22	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I will allow myself to point out which are according to the ABB Parliamentary Group the main, key positives achieved in Parliament's legislative activity in 2015 have expired. We believe that they are two, and in their chronological order these are: the legislative changes adopted in the pension system and the corresponding constitutional changes adopted. Changes in the pension system are one of two significant achievements in Parliament's work over the past year, because they are directly related and relate to the current lifestyle of more than 2 million. Bulgarian pensioners, as well as all other Bulgarian citizens who are about to start or have already started their work. The pension system is directly linked to the management of the most important productive factor "Human labour," which defines the place and as one of the most essential elements of the successful functioning of any economy. Even what has been said so far about the pension system justifies its extremely high level of importance and, accordingly, the complexity and responsibility of the legislative changes adopted therein. I am far from thinking that we have achieved perfection in each of the legislative amendments that have been made. What is important, however, is that the construction of the new pension system as a whole is a legislative solution which has been postponed for years by various governments precisely because of its high level of public importance and its resulting complexity, burden and responsibility to the nation to make changes in substance. Honourable Members, all this gives me reason to define the legislative changes made in the pension system as the first real reform of a substantial public economic system in the country during the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly. The other main positive in the legislative activity of the parliament, which the ABB Parliamentary Group defines as the main one, are the constitutional changes adopted, which give the necessary legal foundations for subsequent serious changes to the judiciary. Moreover, depending on the extent of the importance of these changes, I would also consider them a prospect of real reform in this system. I would add that an essential element in constitutional changes is the elimination through them of a certain serious opportunity to put political pressure on the judiciary, to which the ABB Parliamentary Group has made a definite contribution. I say an opportunity for real reform and this condition in my speech comes from some fundamental conclusions that can be drawn from the nature and manner of adoption of both constitutional changes and legislative changes in the pension system. The most important of these conclusions is that at the heart of every successful and good legislative solution is the constructive dialogue and this has clearly shown in the adoption of the changes in the pension area. The call for dialogue between the represented parliamentary political forces, from the ABB Parliamentary Group, we have made it from this tribune since the beginning of last year. In this sense, I do not say anything new, and I probably owe an apology for putting it again, but it is clear that some parliamentary political forces represented or rather their leaders directly involved in reforming the judicial system are stubbornly sticking to another style of parliamentary relations, a style of parliamentary hubris in communication, a legislative hubris and a non-agreementary denial of any other view, a style of absolutely unacceptable political confrontation and giving final assessments and qualifications to those who do not perceive their views. All this against the background and on the occasion of the most obvious unacceptable legislative proposals tabled by them. It's an infertile style of work, fellow Members! A style of permanent conflict and its resulting inefficiencies. I am convinced that the usefulness of our legislative work would be far higher if this unproductive style was replaced by the style of defending opinions and positions, but not based on confrontation on everything and with everyone, but a style of defending its opinion based on sensible and constructive dialogue. Should I remind some political leaders that policy at each stage is a matter of possible solutions achieved and not of those we want? What basic tasks does ABB have in the new year? A major priority for us continues to be overcoming the demographic crisis, quite deliberately refraining from saying a demographic disaster. In this regard, I already have to make one clarification, because still from the parliamentary tribune, the work on overcoming the demographic crisis with only one ministry's work continues to be identified, given the Social Ministry. This identification is so simplistic and false that it is surprising to me how otherwise experienced and intelligent representatives of a particular political force continue to speculate with this thesis, and it is in the name of the very incorrect achievement of dividends by denigrating the political opponent. From this high tribune, I find it uncomfortable to remind these leaders of elementary truths, such as the fact that demographic policy is a policy at national level, it is a macropolitical policy, and as such it is a set of all sectoral policies, but not as a simple result, but as a synergistic effect. The activities of the Social Ministry, although undoubtedly important, implement only one of these sectoral policies. Moreover, social policy is a function of economic policy, with possible parameters of social activities being determined by the achieved economic results. In this way, as a top priority for overcoming the demographic crisis, we will point to ABB's views on some of the main issues of key sectoral policies that are at the heart of success. First of all, these are economic policy issues and economic growth. The high rate of absorption of European funds under operational programmes in the economy, as well as the preliminary data on the growth rate achieved over the past year, is definitely encouraging if we compare them to those of 2014. However, if we compare them with the average indicators for the development of European economies, they are quite inadequate. According to these indicators, the Bulgarian economy is at 40% of the average of the indicators for the European Union and only in order to stop mechanical labour exports from the country, it is necessary to reach at least 65-70% of the value of these indicators. This means that the demographic crisis does not become an irreversible process of demographic disaster and, in turn, requires at least twice the economic growth rate. We can clearly point out that with the current structure of the Bulgarian economy and with the current volume of public and private investments, this cannot be realised, despite the very high rate of absorption of European funds. In this regard, the ABB Parliamentary Group will develop a comprehensive scheme for structuring, functioning and financing both in the ABB's support agreement with the political party GERB and in the government programme, an investment fund for opening new industries, because we adhere to the principle that the best social policy, the core of the best social policy, is the creation of new jobs. In this context, it will probably also be necessary to re-evaluate the suspension... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a second, I apologize for continuing. ... Re-evaluation of the suspension of some of the major investment projects in the area of changes in health legislation. The most serious weakness we see in the fact that the system of health, in the implementation of legislative changes, is approached unsystemically, works fragmented, piece by piece, mixed top issues with such of an operational nature, submitted extreme and unprofessionally supported proposals, and most importantly, there is a targeted policy for a strong reduction of the social parameters of the health system. Something that we cannot agree with. I'm running out of time, guys. I only mark that in the field of secondary education we believe we have achieved definitely good results with the Law on pre-school and school education, there is a discussion on changes in higher education. The dialogue that has begun gives us reason to believe that good results can be achieved there too. Effective work and health in the new parliamentary and calendar year! Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Colleagues, we move on to the legislative part of our work on today's plenary day. Please turn off the cameras and microphones for the direct transmission. To be continued: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX. I recall that the reports of the Commission on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under this bill were presented in plenary on 3 December 2015, after which the bill itself was presented on behalf of the importers by Mr. Boris Yachev. There is a debate on this bill. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u24	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not present the reasons again, because at the end of the year Mr. Boris Yachev presented them and in order to save time I would just like to present to your attention the opinions of the Ministry of Justice on the bill. I'm not going to read the entire Justice Department Opinion, but I'd like to introduce you to the two most important paragraphs. The project should be supported. In this regard, we believe that the amendment proposed by the importers of the Bill to art. 58 of the Administrative Procedure Code replacing the silent refusal with silent consent will be an effective means of protecting citizens against the administration in the event of failure of an administrative act within the time limit laid down by the law. Finally, the Ministry ends with the following: We believe that the introduction of the principle of silent consent when providing services or regimes will contribute to reducing the administrative burden and will discipline the administration to rule within a period that will allow business activity not to stop because of the administration's silence. There is an opinion, colleagues, and from the Industrial Capital Association. The business says the following: "We categorically support the presented bill as necessary and useful for the Bulgarian business and citizens, following fully the motives of the importers. The proposed amendment fully corresponds to our multiannual demand to extend the application of silent consent as an incentive for more efficient administration work and for its discipline. And just a few more paragraphs. A similar principle change will ease businesses and citizens in their relations with the administration and improve the regulatory environment and thus the conditions for more intensive development. The objectives set out in the visated draft law have also been the subject of our proposals in recent years. In this sense, we are extremely satisfied with the fact that our arguments are shared and tabled for discussion and acceptance by the National Assembly. Finally: The Law is aimed at improving the business environment and thereby increasing the efficiency of the Bulgarian economy. Colleagues, I'm gonna take the liberty of saying a few more words. As mayor, he ran a big city for eight years, this notorious art. 58 really creates huge obstacles for citizens and businesses. When I was mayor, I even submitted such a proposal to the parliament at the time in all the parliamentary groups to change this article. Then, unfortunately, the necessary initiative has not been taken by any parliamentary group, but we of the Patriotic Front believe that by changing this article we would very seriously stimulate both the administration to work better and more effectively, so that the control over it will be greater and, above all, the citizens and, accordingly, the business will be more satisfied, because much faster they will be administered and, of course, will not be subjected to the relevant blackmails, as very often occurs in administrative circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Do other MPs wish to take part in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I will personally support this bill. I like the approach that fellow Members of the Patriotic Front have taken to solving this very painful business problem, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, which often encounters the so-called silent refusal by the administration and follow long court procedures in which they must fight to invest funds, waste time and so on. What I particularly like here is the approach that they have taken, not to consider that non-exportation within the time limit, is equivalent to consent and the activity applied for, or activities, can be initiated, but is considered to be consent to the issue of the act. That is to say, the authority in question must nevertheless issue an act on the basis of which the applicant, for example, if it were to say, arms trade and a licence is required, cannot begin to carry out that activity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Or, in other words, it eliminates one of the main dangers that opposers of silent consent point out, and this is the danger of inaction by the administration of the licensing regime, and it is important licensing regimes to kind of be skipped. There's no such thing being offered here. Again, it is proposed to consider that there is an agreement to issue the act in question. Either, in other words, the administrative authority will really have to take appropriate action on the basis of this and, on the basis of them, the applicant will either receive or will not receive the licence concerned. It seems to me that this is different from what we are used to hearing over the years, as an approach to giving the so-called silent consent. I will support it, my colleagues from the Reformation bloc also say that they will, for the most part, support it. I think it deserves to be really thought about and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u27	First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u28	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Slavov, thank you very much that your parliamentary group will support us. I just want to say that like any human made, this isn't perfect. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it at first reading as a bill, and now, at second reading, some of the things will be cleared and refined, of course, in cooperation with business organisations, with legal organisations, and, above all, in cooperation with the experts we understand from administration, we will clean up as they say, the small hooks in the problem. But let's not throw away the baby because of the dirty water, as a classic says! So I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u29	Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u30	My fellow Members, I would like to inform you very briefly. A few months ago, when we were discussing this Law in the Economic Policy Committee, we had very interesting debates. I would like to warn you that the law is extremely dangerous. We supported him, by the way, with many, many conditions. At first glance it is very pleasant, positive, helps the Bulgarian business. The topic of silent consent is a very interesting topic. It's an old theme from 10 years ago. I suppose this Law at first reading will pass in the Chamber, but I will ask the committee responsible to very carefully refine, because this can lead to an incredible escalation of corruption practices. With the silent consent, we create an environment to increase these practices along this food chain. We're just feeding her. My request is for a second reading to actually not rush, ask for a longer period and very carefully discuss things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u31	Third line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleague Slavov! I, too, would like to thank you for supporting this bill. We give ourselves a clear understanding of the pros and cons of this Bill, but still in an accurate analysis the facts are that the pros are much, much more than the negative things that colleague Kanev hints at. There must be a reason. We have also refined them, but let us not forget that the Committee on Economic Policy has also decided to establish a working group on this bill. What is important, however, is what you have neglected to say, about which I take this remark, that, in the general opinion of both state institutions and businesses, and of non-governmental organisations, this Bill does, so to speak, a small reform in relation to local administrations in municipalities and the state administration.............................. is already a question of the executive itself. Naturally, we will also make efforts to make sure that the Law is as good as possible. It was a good thing to say that in your speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u33	A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I will mostly respond to my colleague, Kanev. I am not surprised that I am being replicated from the left, but I am rather surprised that my colleague Kanev, who has been doing business for many years, says these things because I am convinced that over the years he has faced inaction of the administration and has probably repeatedly sought ways, including through the court, to defend his rights against such inaction and lack of care. The point of this Bill is that such acts should not be encouraged, but, on the contrary, to create an incentive not to happen, but to oblige the administration to do its job and to be aware that by failing to do it, it will have great consequences. That is, the ball will no longer be in the applicant man who has to fight this administration, but the administration itself, on the basis of the adoption of this bill, will now have to clean up my eventual carelessness. So, I think it's really worth supporting the bill. I do not share what has been said to be dangerous and so on because, once again, the bill does not say that silent consent means that the actions requested can be carried out immediately, but only says that the administration concerned is deemed to have issued the act in question, which can, of course, be challenged and a further procedure can be developed. The interesting other thing, as has been said, is that there are probably things to correct. Personally, I do not share what has been mentioned further in the Bill that the appeal should not stop implementation. Personally, I would leave here the general order under the APC, i.e. the possible challenge of such an act issued in that order or accepted that it was issued in that order, seems to me that it can be stopped by appeal, so that it can be clarified whether there is really no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u35	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u36	Mrs. Chairman! Why I abstained in the Legal Commission against voting on the proposed draft Law! A silent refusal does not mean that the country is unable to protect its interests. He may be appealed. It's mass practice. With such a general description of the dangers facing us or could occur what is being said here, but no one has said concrete examples! Here I will make a note: the association of municipalities is generally against this bill not because of the principle, but so signed. I'm on the principle, too, but he has to be... There is no way between first and second reading to be refined in this Law. In separate laws, yes. And I immediately ask: at the request of the deactivation of a municipal building, the property may not be a building, and the property is not pronounced the administration, according to the so submitted and claimed by colleagues, it is considered that by the silent consent there should be the administrative act. I do not want to talk about the cases where the administrative act is the final act, and before that it precedes those agreed with other institutions, where there is no response, no opinion or it is late. The deadline is running out, we accept that there is a silent agreement and then there are relevant opinions that do not imply consent to this act. Let us not reduce everything just to issuing a construction permit or some business investment, honourable colleagues. It's a common law, it should apply to absolutely all cases. I agree with the principle, but it could begin to introduce itself into the various laws that regulate different public relations. Here I do not want to say that, in such a silent refusal, we accept that there is an agreement, a silent consent, in fact, only the party concerned or the one who has submitted the request, only it will be known that there is a silent consent. What about the other interested parties? I am therefore not opposed to the principle, but not to be a general principle valid for absolutely all hypotheses when there is a need for the administration to rule. A moment ago, yes, we have the hypothesis, silent consent, but that does not mean that the country will immediately begin its actions, it will have to wait to give its act. And when you don't give the deed? In practice, we are going again to the hypothesis of silent refusal and should appeal the reluctance of the party to issue the act on the basis that we have accepted that there is a silent consent to the issue of the act. We talk when the act for the country is positive, of course, about the interested party. I'm not against the principle, but not in this general law. Yes, this principle can be introduced into separate hypotheses in separate laws, not in general. And I'm gonna end up refusing a property dispute with the municipality. Because the municipality in one version does not wish.. by there is a refusal, will defend its interests in the court, in the other case it is that just so decided.. let us delay the case, we cannot decide within the term and suddenly it will appear that the municipal property is deactuated and has become private.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u37	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! I wasn't going to take the floor, but Mr. Lazarov's statement challenged me. The truth is that a ghost roams not in Europe, but in Bulgaria and this is the ghost of administrative irresponsibility. He is strangling business, harassing citizens for 25 years I no longer know how many governments, countless politicians say loudly that they are struggling with it, and it is growing, strong and continues to hinder the development of our country. No one can get lazy clerks to work. This is working. You can be a serious entrepreneur, you can have wonderful ideas, market niche, you are ready to invest and open jobs, you can go to one permit, for example, you can wait one, two years and they answer: there is no administrative capacity. The administration has no responsibility. The officials don't have any responsibility. Meanwhile, someone else is borrowing the niche, someone else is making the investment, somewhere else is happening jobs. All of this, we've been watching him just for decades. It's the same with citizens. Yeah, you can have a legal right, you want it to be officialized through an administrative authority, but he doesn't. You appeal to his silent refusal, you get a decision that he's bound to go out and he still doesn't. That doesn't make any sense. Somehow this wicked chain has to be broken. I participated in some of the meetings with the business and with the trade unions in connection with the proposed by us Bill.. Before we submitted it we consulted him, people said that there was a need for an administrative revolution. We can't always justify that we don't have the capacity, it's dangerous and so on. Yeah, well, it's dangerous. Isn't inaction dangerous? It is much more dangerous because it is multiplied in tens and hundreds of administrations. So my argument is that we have to bet on jumping in the water and learn to swim fast, at least the administration to learn. Otherwise, we keep talking about stability, which is low-level and vegetation. And we need to develop. It's the truth! I am impressed that none of the MPs in the parliamentary committees who have discussed the bill have voted against the draft, because there is no objection, there are abstentions. Because they know the principle is right, and they have to. My colleagues have repeatedly suggested that we give a longer period between first and second readings, if we have to make working groups, to refine the texts, but in any case to start this administrative revolution, because we can still postpone, we can still say that we will regulate in separate laws and generally nobody will notice anything from the administrative reform that we promise will happen. My appeal is support at first reading. Life and health, there is plenty of time to refine the texts. The important thing is to do something useful and justify our stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u39	First line, mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u40	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u41	Mr. Veselinov, jumping into the water is the easiest action, and coming out of the water is the more complex and my personal opinion is that with this bill we will not achieve it. Colleagues, the good intentions of which I do not believe there is a Member of Parliament who is opposed to easing administrative procedures, fighting bureaucratic procedures, with your bill, in my own opinion, is not achieved. On the contrary, what you are offering us beyond the explicit deadlines in various administrative laws, to extend these deadlines by seven days, without any guarantee that this will happen. I read you correctly the texts you are proposing. Title: Silent consent, para. 1: The non-production within the time limit shall be deemed to be a silent consent to issue an act. So far, so good. See what you're offering in para. 2: In a 7-day period from the expiry of the above, the administrative authority is obliged to issue its application. If he doesn't give him up, what happens, Mr. Vesselinoff? What if the administrative authority does not issue the administrative act within this additional 7-day period that you are submitting? What are we doing? We do not achieve the goal that you set yourself and in which I fully support you, because it is necessary to do so. But this bill does not solve the goal behind which we can all unite in this House. On the contrary, it is extended by 7 days this period and again we are in the hypothesis of a lack of an act, because you cannot only be regarded as having an act to replace the content of an act. Before me, it was said about the deactuation. There are so many props. There is no way, by virtue of the text, that we can say that it has not been published, but it is because that is how we have foreseen it in the Law. Explain to me, how do you plan to overcome this conflict that you tabled with the Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. Second line supposed by the public representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Veselinov, I said yes, I am about the principle. But, see, how is it written in this general law? What if it concerns harmful activities that would damage it? Or if we are talking about activities that are regulated in a very strict order, we are also talking about dealing with hazardous waste, we are talking about food work and many, many other activities? And we accept the silent refusal, the time has passed and it is assumed that there is a silent consent. What about when we talk about a property dispute? When a country is the municipality or state I just gave you the example? I don't mind, let's do it in individual laws, when it comes to some licensing regime, give me permission to make a commercial site, if I meet the conditions, or do some business, or taxi services and so on. Yes, give in these laws to do so, I agree with you. But that's the way it's supposed to be!? It would be important for absolutely all the services that are in the business life and not only in the business for relations between citizens, relationships between owners. We're talking about one of them applying for a construction permit, yes, but someone else is contesting it or would argue it, but he doesn't know it. Do you understand? That's what this is about, I agree. As for the fact that in any way order should be put in place, let us do something simple, if the administrative authority does not rule within the relevant time limit, as if the citizen or the company fails to fulfil its obligations within the relevant time limit has a payment penalty or a personal fine, let us introduce it if, within one month, it is not decided to impose a payment penalty on the municipality concerned, to the department concerned. Then people will signal, then we can talk that there will really be some civil society that will thus exercise control over the activities of the administration. And when the end of the year comes and the time comes for wages or in the middle of the year it will be that there are property sanctions imposed in this municipality for 10,000. BGN as I, you and we all pay our fine or penalty payment that we have missed the deadline to submit applications that we have transferred our car or apartment and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let us introduce this to this common law. Let there be a penalty payment for the administration if it has not done its job in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u45	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, in fact your line about what would happen if para. 2 is not executed, it means to accept that the administration has the right not to comply with the law. Then I agree with Mr. Lazarov's opinion that we should introduce a penalty for those who have failed to comply with the issue within the 7-day period. What's more, this al. 2 regulates that the relevant administrative act has all attributes, to be declared in due order, that is, avoids all those things which Mr. Lazarov claims to exist as a threat. I say again, this may not be the perfect formulation. In any case, this is a very clear sign to society that awaits such kind of legislation. We can improve it between first and second readings so that the interest of the state, the municipalities is sufficiently protected and at the same time clearly felt by the citizens and by the business care of the state and the legislator to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote Draft No 554-01-43, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 5 March 2015. According to the report, the leading Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the plenary not to support the bill. They voted 129 MPs: 28, Against 2, abstention 99. The bill is not supported by a first vote. We move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is a proposal under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, made by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, in particular by its Vice-President Cornelia Ninova: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for extending the period between first and second readings for submission of proposals under the Railway Transport Act by three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u48	Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Ivan Valkov to extend the deadline by three weeks, becoming maximum, namely four weeks. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 113 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The report of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee will introduce us to her chairman Dr. Hassan Ademov. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 554-01-165, submitted by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 18 November 2015 discussed and discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Social Security Code with importers Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the National Insurance Institute. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the national representative Georgi Gokov. The Bill proposes to bind the amount of compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age to the amount of minimum wage. Thus, according to the importers, the practice of subjective determination will be terminated each year with the State Social Security Budget Act. The bill aims to settle the amount of compensation in our legislation permanently, taking into account the country's real economic situation. The reasons for the bill are recalled that for 2015 as well as for the period 2009-2013, the compensation is unchanged and lags behind the minimum wage of 40 BGN. According to importers, this amount can cover the monthly fee for children's cuisine or the one-week meal cost of a child up to two years of age. If the bill is approved, security and predictability will be introduced regarding the amount of compensation. It will enable mothers and families to plan their expenses and receive additional support for raising their children. With regard to the financial justification, importers used data from the National Statistical Institute, according to which the number of insured persons receiving child benefit from one to two years of age is around 39 thousand. The funds needed to secure the bill will cost the state social security budget around 19 million. lv. Annually. The Commission received opinions on the Draft Law from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute and the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, which are negative. The discussion was attended by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Hassan Ademov. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 4 votes in favour and 8 votes in abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes that the National Assembly should not support at first vote the Draft Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 554-01-165, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u50	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. No reports have been submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. It's 11:30. We will be familiar with the opinion of the importers at another next plenary session. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. From 12:00 we continue with Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u51	Colleagues, please take your seats. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The Blic controls include Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the four deputy prime ministers. I recall that each parliamentary group has the opportunity to ask two questions in order according to the number of parliamentary groups. My request is that questions be asked to the Prime Minister first, if any, because there is a commitment after 1300 hours. First is the group of GERB. Question to the Prime Minister? I won't. [[Radio.]] From the group of BSP left Bulgaria? On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria a question to the Prime Minister will ask Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Prime Minister, serious discussions have been going on in Europe over the last month on measures to address the refugee problem. A decision was adopted to conclude a treaty between the European Union and Turkey and to provide 3 billion. EUR per year and also to it for redistribution within four years to 400 thousand. Syrian refugees specifically from Turkey and their displacement into the European Union. At the same time, serious discussions are taking place on the subject of changing the Dublin Return Regulation to the first country in which refugees have entered. So far, there is no articulate position of the government in Bulgaria what is our position on the fair distribution of refugees. There is a risk that if the Dublin Regulation is not implemented in view of the processes currently taking place in Germany, which at one time invited these refugees to apply the Dublin Regulation strictly. And then the pressure on Bulgaria not only on Turkey, but also back in implementation of the Dublin regulation, to increase. And my question is: what is our government's position on changing the Dublin regulation, so that the European Union can more fairly distribute the burden on refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u53	For a response the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u54	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mikov! I am taking this opportunity to congratulate you on the new year and, as the first meeting, the Parliament will be successful. Dublin doesn't work. Our position has always been clear that not only quotas must be made. The public and at the council itself my position was to immediately close the borders. Those who have entered Europe, who will be, as you call them, displaced, others who will be integrated, for which you will be able to secure education, work, social care and those who actually flee from death and those who persecute them to. The others should be returned to their birthplaces. Of course, we supported the quotas, but the quotas could not work for the simple reason that we would not then be making a refugee camp, but we should be doing prison because we have many cases of our refugee centers, especially those of an open type, six or seven times we keep people running, they come back. So that's not gonna work either. In a word, you have correctly guessed or correctly said, I do not underestimate the question or the word "sniffing" that there is no position in Europe to tell us exactly what will happen and how it will happen. Different countries build their interest, protect it because their nations themselves do not like what is happening. Yeah, some guys invited them, only some guys have to give billions to support these people. You recently know that it was the prime minister of Bavaria Zeehofer, who in our conversation said that over 400 euros per person cost them refugees. That's billions. Recent events have shown that these tables will be very difficult to integrate. You also see at our border what we are holding and reporting on the ballots are mainly Afghan citizens now. These Afghan citizens, I have nothing against them, but they grew up in wars and around Taliban. In the sense, it is very difficult to integrate such a person into a democracy where human rights and attitude, if you will, to women or to gender is quite different from their upbringing. I have always stressed one of the good things that the previous government did was the beginning, the building of the fence. The fence doesn't sound good. The facility that supports the border police. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In a word, our position is such that it must immediately stop the influx of refugees, as the United States did, and until the matter is resolved, others must not be accepted. Dublin practically doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u55	The line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, and I in turn wish you a healthy and successful year in personal terms and as Prime Minister this is important for Bulgarian citizens. It's clear Dublin isn't working. Clearly, that experience, which was made for proportional or some fairer distribution, is also not happening. I believe that Bulgaria's interest requires our government to discuss this issue and to have a clear position in Brussels, a position that will be similar in my opinion to the Romanian and Croatian, because we are outside Schengen. It is already heard, and the Italian side is talking about Europe at two speeds. On the subject of borders, it is right to have European solidarity, and it is our interest to put this position in place. If we wait for someone to understand us, you correctly said that each country stands for its own interests. Our interest is the Bulgarian government to say clearly as a government of a member country, we demand revision of the Dublin regulation, which does not work to take account of the opportunities of individual countries. In this sense, the border countries of Bulgaria, Greece, cannot bear the burden under the current Dublin regulation and the urgent revision of this regulation on the basis of solidarity and justice must be the position of our government, at the cost of everything, otherwise, the situation here at the southern border can become very difficult. Bulgarian citizens do not feel European solidarity in these discussions. Each goat on its own is fixed in this situation, and I believe that our position should be very clear. It is not only Bulgarian, it is of those countries that are outside Schengen and are at the southern border. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope that such a position will accept the government and defend it in Brussels publicly and clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u57	A hole, Mr. Borisov? You won't use it. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prime Minister, we are expecting a problem with the purchase of tobacco. Tobacco producers are waiting for the position of power in terms of subsidies, as the prices currently offered are very low. The first question is: is there a change in subsidies compared to last year's? And the second question is: what measures will you take to regulate the purchased campaign in relation to scandalously low prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u59	Mr. Karadaye, in the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure, which are asked under blitzcontrol, must relate to the general policy of the government, so I accept your question only in the part concerning a common response as a buy-in policy, but there is no comment here on specific prices and a specific amount of subsidies. For an answer, Prime Minister Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadaye, there is a very specific question in your question and I am afraid of this tribune to say something that is not accurate enough. The fact is that last year we gave tobacco producers 107 million additional deposits. I am sure that we will make sure that their interest in producers is protected now. Of course, there are some elements in their demands that we cannot satisfy, especially when it comes to a lower quality of tobacco or its preservation, so there is always some percentage on which there cannot be an understanding of the purchase of tobacco. The fact is that in China we also talked with the largest tobacco company "Caiina Tabako", if he could, directly start buying tobacco from Bulgaria, which would be much better than the intermediaries or through Turkey at the moment what they are buying. Our policy will be to support this industry because practice shows that it is difficult in these regions that people can change or alter their way of life to produce something else. Of course, if there is more specific that you are interested in, the Minister of Agriculture, she will be kind enough to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u61	A line, Mr. Karadaye? You won't use it. On behalf of the Group of the Reformation Bloc Mr. Velikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, first of all, to congratulate you on the New Year's day, to wish you health and fruitful work to you and to our entire government for the good of our country! Part of this work would be related to regional policy, to the policy of supporting underdeveloped areas. In this sense, we know that Minister Lilyana Pavlova, her team has prepared a targeted investment programme for both Northwestern Bulgaria and other poorly developed regions. How far did the adoption of this targeted investment programme go? Will there be any funding for this year? What assistance would you need from national representation in relation to necessary perhaps some changes related to the tax benefits envisaged or measures to provide work and housing to young professionals for these regions? We and our colleagues, who are mostly from the three districts of Montana, Vidin and Vratsa, have held several general gatherings, support this program, but we want you to, if possible, a little more to stop what the development is at the moment and, of course, if there are any deadlines or more specific views at the moment, share them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u63	For an answer, the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u64	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Velikov! Very soon, we launched a tour of Montana, which was just one thing not to say. I'm glad we've been able to close this project in the last few days. It was good for the city, for Vratsa. Very soon, now Deputy Prime Minister Donchev told me that this program is probably in the next Council of Ministers, or the next maximum, will be approved. What makes me optimistic? It makes me optimistic that for the first time in the Programme "Competitiveness and Innovations" and where there is a lot of money and mainly companies, mainly municipalities from the South, so to call it, participated so far, now in this period and the first projects, funded for more than 130 million. BGN, the vast majority of companies are from Northern Bulgaria, which makes me optimistic because these are working companies and this money directly goes into machines, in energy efficiency, in improving competition and in one word: more profit for the companies themselves, respectively for the region. In this Programme we have huge opportunities and, fortunately, people already know them. We introduced electronically to submit their documents, so to a large extent bureaucracy is being removed there. For the city of Montana itself, if you're interested. There we promised the people about two boulevards that stand them, and, of course, about the Holy Spirit Church, which has been being done for years, perhaps there you know how many years, to help the municipality release it. The same goes for Vidin, the same goes for Vratsa, the same for Pleven, for Dobrich, for the Northwest. Of course, you know for a long time my opinion on the issue that the highway will be the important transport hub for Northern Bulgaria. I hope this year the construction of the two Lots to Lovech will begin. Since there are no projects, we are currently designing engineering for the next lotts. Of course, it is extremely important that the road Ruse "Turnovo" is also made, because in these centers a large part of our economy is concentrated. Unfortunately, we didn't have time for the tunnel under Gabrovo. You know he's been frozen for a long time. If you go to Gabrovo now, you will see the columns of the highway leading to the tunnel. They're by the mountain. They're sticking out, but we're running out of time in this period. That means we'll have to do it with budget money. Gabrovo's patrols are ready. For me this is a vital project, because the barrier of the Shipka Pass especially winter time, and when the weather is good, they are extremely difficult to overcome by transport. We are making a lot of effort and we hope that during this period we will have a good result for the Northwest as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u65	The line, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u66	Thank you, Madam President. That won't be quite a line, though that's the way our Rules are. I would say, Prime Minister, that we value this effort. Thanks to the good teams of Minister Lukarski and Minister Taneva, many projects have been adopted, evaluated, concluded contracts, and more will be held in the more competitive and more rural areas. What we are noticing here is that we have talked with our colleagues Linkov, Rumen Hristov and others from our group that there is a certain distortion that may be natural, but because the Northwestern planning area, apart from Vidin, Montana and Vratsa, covers Lovech and Pleven. Since Lovech and especially Pleven are more powerful in terms of potential of investors and companies, many of the projects are downloaded to the easterner part of the Northwestern planning area. That is why we were talking, and perhaps colleagues from the other parliamentary groups would support such a call together with Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to be seen and, if necessary, to send some notification to Brussels instead of a notification, and to try the Northwest Sub-region Vidin "Montana" Vratsa to have additional preferences. In this sense, this seems to be necessary in some foreseeable, albeit short-term future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u67	Would you like to use your coat, Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veliv, for these, as you have called them three areas, I would very much like to have a target subsidy. I've assigned my colleagues to think. If this year does not work, it will be for the Rhodopes and Strandja next year. These are several places where to boost the competitiveness of these regions, we need to help the municipalities a little bit. It takes a lot of money, but if a fund of 100 is made, 150 million to be distributed properly, of course, through the budget and Parliament, I explicitly stress that this is an idea that we will work on. I think everyone in these settlements will be pleased. Many of them are so set up that they are poor and could hardly raise that much money to make capital repairs and something in infrastructure. That is where the state must help them, again I say with Parliament's decision so that we can bring these priorities to a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u69	Here comes a question from the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Karakachanov will ask it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u70	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question relates to the changed geopolitical situation in the Balkan region and the Middle East. I am referring specifically to the conflict between Russia and Turkey, the uncertain situation in other Middle Eastern countries, especially Egypt. Turkey and Egypt were two serious tourist destinations, where every year around 4 - 4.5 million tourists, citizens of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and other CIS countries spent their money there. This changed geopolitical situation shows that there is already real data that much of this flow of tourists from the mentioned countries will be looking for other destinations for their holiday. This purely geopolitical shift in the region opens up opportunities for the Bulgarian business, for the Bulgarian economy and especially in the tourism sector. My question is: is this situation being assessed by the government and is it being considered specifically for measures where visa facilitation measures are being taken for these countries or other measures such as opening additional centres to which visas are issued so that we can attract some of this potential? I'll give an example. This isn't about any ideology. As you hear, I mention Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and others. It is purely about economics, and the economy determines politics. A similar tourist for his stay in countries like Turkey and Egypt spent about 1,000 euros. If we manage to attract 10-15-20% of these 4.5 million tourists or 400-500 thousand, this means 400-500 million euros for the Bulgarian economy and especially for Bulgarian tourism. Unfortunately, we hear quite controversial speeches. The Minister of Tourism said he would want visa facilitation in order to attract more tourists, but we heard from the Foreign Ministry that this could not happen. My question is: are there serious thoughts on the question and what concrete measures will be taken to support the Bulgarian economy and especially Bulgarian tourism?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u71	For an answer the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, in a few days in Bulgaria will be the Minister of Tourism of Russia on this topic, because we, as an external border of Schengen and as a member of the European Union, have certain dependencies on the issuance of visas. This means that we can open more desks in Russia, Ukraine, in Moldova. You know, the sanctions and countermeasures last year have affected our tourism. We, as a loyal member of the European Union and NATO, have never acted against our neighbours by taking advantage of one or another of the conunctures. Quite the opposite. We've always had a predictable friendly policy towards everyone. I hope that was appreciated. This year, the tide of tourists that had last year, at least the more information that I have and which is sent as a message, will be that. We have a problem issuing visas at the entrance. Our lawyers are looking for an opportunity to ease the issuance of visas as competitive in other markets. However, keep in mind that terrorism lies. Yesterday, I sent condolences to the Turkish leaders for the attack, and to Chancellor Merkel, and before that to Paris. Terrible things happen, and they happen in the most visited tourist centers. Istanbul is a cosmopolitan city, Paris is also one. We must balance very carefully between tourist interests and our commitments. Believe me, we're making great effort and talking. In any case, we are quite active to recover, not so much to attract tourists. That's what we're gonna do for this season. It is good for the tourism industry to consider, I repeat, once again, the quality of services, because for many of our countrymen who prefer other resorts, this is one of the main reasons. At the same time, with the infrastructure we provide, I think we are helping to a large extent the tourism industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u73	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u74	Dear Prime Minister, from the Patriotic Front we are also about good neighbourly relations, but, as our new friends from the United States say: Nothing personal, everything is business. When there is an opportunity to help the Bulgarian business to earn money, to put more money into the budget in order to have more money for pensions, for salaries, for security, we must help the Bulgarian business. That was exactly the question and it comes from a practice, and I think there is nothing to worry about from European bureaucrats. Those same European bureaucrats for ten years discussed same-sex marriages, whether they should be introduced or not, while Islamic fundamentalism was raking around the world. Now they know when they blew up in Paris twice last year. I suggest more courage. Let us not take into account various Europeans, but watch what their own countries do. Italy has already introduced free visas. Free visas exactly, hoping to use this situation to win the Italian business. Greece also, Cyprus has long been a relieved regime. Here the issue is only about the economic interests of Bulgaria. By the way, this issue has been placed very seriously by many representatives of the tourism business on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, which in the last few years for a number of reasons also for this European solidarity, we have suffered losses in our tourism. They hope a little bolder, more categorically there is no concern here, it is not about breaking European legislation, it is about being more flexible with these exported centres, with a reduction in the price of visas, especially being able to serve more willing ones. This is about all the countries of the former CIS, that is, a huge contingent that has been pouring billions into countries like Turkey, Egypt and some other countries in the Middle East. This is an opportunity, and I suggest you don't miss. It is unacceptable for the Minister of Tourism to speak one thing, the Foreign Ministry to speak another. After all, all of us as MPs, including ministers who have one opinion or another, are counting on receiving the salaries from the taxes that the Bulgarian taxpayers bring in. And they charge taxes by having something to do, what to earn, and what to spend taxes on. Thank you, Prime Minister. I hope that this opinion will be taken into account and, above all, I say, it is a wish and an opinion of the Bulgarian tourism industry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u75	Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, and we are currently issuing free visas to organized tourist groups, especially children in children's camps, festivals and all others. We will discuss now with Deputy Prime Minister Donchev how much and how much visa prices can be reduced. I think there was a regulation here, too, which I need to check to tell you. We are making great efforts, I repeat, to assist the industry. Of course, it should not miss in its advertisements that the Black Sea, our rivers and mountains are already 100 percent ecologically clean. The anti-promotion that was taking place against Bulgaria in the tourism sector, with the contaminant of the Black Sea feces, based on these treatment plants that we have done everywhere, I think that our sea no longer gives in to our competitors in the tourist destinations. So it's nice to discuss this with you and the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u77	There will be no question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Mr. Chukolov from Ataka's group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I hope that everyone in this Chamber is well aware that the intervention of the Republic of Turkey in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria is a process that lasts a long, long time since the release of Bulgaria from Turkish slavery. I hope that many of you have read books of former counter-intelligence officers who share how during the so-called so-called socialism, what intensive activity Turkish intelligence has carried out on Bulgarian territory; how the Republic of Turkey has tried to influence everything that is happening in Bulgaria. I hope you don't have the illusion that this process is continuing today. We have been pointing out specific facts from the Attack Party for over 10 years, requiring concrete action not to actually happen. Unfortunately, this process continues. We have made numerous reports to the media, to the public, to meetings with voters, to political meetings in which we have participated with other parliamentary groups. Today, in those days, after these processes took place in the DPS and just during the Christmas holidays, we call it "Turkish Christmas," so you have turned it, honourable colleagues from the DPS, and the Bulgarian public has sharpened their attention on the impact Turkey has on Bulgaria. You yourself, Mr. Prime Minister, said how leading factors from the Turkish state were trying to influence your decisions or what you should do or not do. Information came out that representatives of the Turkish state called Bulgarian politicians, MPs, political actors on the ground, tried to convince them of something. Here again direct influence in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. We have written a declaration by the Parliamentary Group of Ataka which, Madam President, I hope more quickly, in the normal way, will be moved by the respective parliamentary procedures. A statement by which we condemn, we propose to the National Assembly to condemn the rude interference in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Republic of Turkey. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question to you, Prime Minister, is: what will your government do, how will it react to the removal of the Turkish ambassador from Bulgaria, his withdrawal to Turkey in any way, any note? Will you take any action to show the Turkish state that this process should not continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u79	For an answer, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u80	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chukolov! Bulgaria has always tried to have normal, collegiate, friendly relations with the guides of our neighbours and in this order of thinking we have maintained really very decent relationships of trust, relationships in which we could ask ourselves questions that we are interested in. We did not intervene or react when in Ankara President Erdogan and President Putin practically moved the South Stream and renamed it Turkish; when the construction of Russian nuclear power plants began; when Turkey failed to comply with the embargo, which the NATO countries and the European Union respected; when tourists who just said Mr. Karakachanov from Bulgaria were going to Turkey with the direct order of the Russian leadership. We were careful, patient, knowing that one day things would come to their places. And they came back because there are unsurpassable factors, and Bulgaria is an insurmountable factor in the Balkans and in its policy. Of course, each country has its favorites for preference, as it is under the European People's Party, European Socialists and Social Democrats. Everyone, as they say, praises his goods or seeks support from those he trusts. It's everywhere. So I am more inclined to believe that the Turkish leadership's desire was to inform how predictable the processes run in the DPS. I do not believe at all that neither Russia nor Turkey have any dependence. I can tell by intercepting information from the intelligence services or counterintelligence services. On 23 or 24 December, I may have confused the date, but somewhere there was, the Turkish ambassador was called and was given a note at the Foreign Ministry for his actions and behaviour. Of course, as good neighbourly countries, we have avoided making a lot of noise on these topics, but everything diplomacy and the order in which we have to tell them what they can and cannot do, we have done it. At the same time, I have repeatedly thanked the Turkish leadership for helping much in the refugee flow not to go through Bulgaria. What the honourable Mr. Mikov has asked me, we are not faced with this chance to return us to the first point tomorrow so many refugees. Yes, you are! Can you imagine what would happen to Greece and Italy if the Dublin Agreement were to be triggered? So the balance is fragile. I would love to come to a Council of Presidents to debate a topic that we all, including GERB, are avoiding for 25 years, but it must find a solution and I would be very happy if in Parliament we find a common language or a common solution to this question... how are Bulgarian Muslims trained, where are they trained, how are their diplomas issued? It's a subject that we surround because we're all afraid of being blamed for supporting the DSS, whether it's something else and so on. I would be happy here and the DPS itself to be a participant in solving this problem. Because for Christians it's clear we have a Seminar, we have trainings, a curriculum, we have who can be a pop, who can't be and so on. And we all stick our heads in the sand like an ostrich and say... We have hundreds of thousands of Muslims, hodjas, mufti, creeds. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , a large part of which is alimony to the Turkish state and we all knew it, both you and us, and at the right. If at a chairman's council or in a normal environment we say all these things and find one correct solution... Because I understand the one who says: "Let's make a Islamic Institute to train, it can immediately fall under a very sharp criticism and say all sorts of things at his address and perhaps that is helpful. Including I say, I set an example with myself, to transfer this issue from year to year, but you see the moment when this terrorism is spread, not at all and not always, the feeling that these countries or these people are terrorists. On the contrary, being tolerant, we need to provide them with the best training and, accordingly, their religion. Do you have them? He's got it! Let's make sure he's under the leadership of Islam-related curricula. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope, Mr. Chukolov, that in the coming weeks and on this matter and in the Law of Religious Religion, we will all join in and give our opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. The line, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Borisov, I do not understand why you have involved both Russia and the training of the Bulgarian Muslims in your response. In fact, I understand because you have reason not to answer specifically the question I asked you. But you really need to understand that we at Ataka have considerations to ask this question, because what is it about? It's affecting our national self-esteem. I am sure that no one is pleased to see Davutoglu say: The Ottoman Empire will expand in its old borders, how we see maps on which half of Bulgaria is cut off, how other responsible Turkish factors make ineligible statements, I think of Erdogan's statement in the city. The horse, we don't like it. The Bulgarian public wants to see some reaction, some national dignity to broadcast outside because what is left of the Bulgarian citizen? No financial security, no street security. At least a little bit of what is said to feel that we have a country, that there is someone who represents it at an international level in a strong way. Because everyone loves the strong. When we emit power, of course they will respect us more. This procedure, which is at the moment of these blitz controls, we use it just like that. If you wish, answer this question. When Davutoglu came here on December 15th, did the question of the compensation that Turkey owes us for the Thracian properties then arise from the Bulgarian side? You know that in 2011, on 8 April, the Bulgarian National Assembly adopted one such decision here in this Chamber, which obliges the Bulgarian government to move this issue eventually to settle these relations that stand between the two countries. When all the problems are settled, yes, of course, then we will be good neighbors, then, as it is said, we will not look at the past with an unpleasant feeling, but indeed these issues must be settled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u83	Would you like to use the back, Mr. Borisov? No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u84	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u85	ABB's group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u86	Dear Prime Minister, the war in Syria is the main challenge for the international community at the moment and this war, I would say these wars, because they are fought by different forces, each of these forces comes from their own national interests, first and then the fight against the Islamic State. A few months ago, the Republic of Turkey launched the idea of creating a security area in northern Syria. This security zone coincides with the territories of Syria populated by Kurds, which is no surprise, because one of the strategic objectives of the Turkish state is the fight against Kurdish separatistism. At the same time, however, Kurdish forces are the only forces on the ground that oppose the Islamic State and who successfully fight Islamists. It is known that this war cannot be won either in London or in Paris or in Moscow. It will be won on the spot. Thus, trying to create the so-called security zone on the territory of the population, which only successfully fought against the Islamic State, Turkey kind of blocked the activities of international coalitions to fight against the Islamic State. My question is: what is the attitude of the Republic of Bulgaria to this project, which recently, with the attacks in Turkey, has been reactivated to create a security area in Northern Syria without sanctions of the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u87	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u88	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kuchukov! My answer to the question will be consistent with what is now briefly brewing me, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, because so delicate... and Mr Vigenin as former foreign minister may know more, but this is an area with Turkmen that are inhabited more, an area over which the Russian plane was shot down, an area from which from several countries bombarders are attacking Russian, French, English, American and whatnot. I have not in principle heard the international community have any general opinion on this issue as the Security Zone. Minister Kalfin has advised me to answer you so evasively, because I am going to go into a subject where, if there is really a competent person in the world, there are probably several people. Thank you. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u89	A line? I won't. According to our staff, in the blitz control, non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs are entitled to a total of two issues in writing. Such a request was made by Mr. Velizar Enchev. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev, to ask your first question to the Prime Minister. If there are no other independent MPs, you will be able to ask yourself the second question in the second round.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u90	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Prime Minister, a month and a half ago Russia unilaterally terminated the contract for the construction of the Turkish Stream. Russia unilaterally terminated the contract for the construction of the Turkish Stream after the Russian bombardier was taken over the territory of the Republic of Syria. There is a unique geopolitical opportunity, a unique energy opportunity, I would say figuratively, for the Republic of Bulgaria to take advantage of this confrontation, which really geopolitically in the regional plan is extremely unpleasant for Bulgaria, but sometimes there is good in the bad when we talk about geopolitics. The specific question to you is as follows: what steps has been taken or plans to take the government headed by you to reboot the South Stream project under the name of the European Union and, of course, in harmony with the two crucial factors in this case.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What steps have you taken and are planning to take, as this is about protecting the energy interests of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u91	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u92	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! We have never led our policy against or in the interests of one or the other country or vice versa. Of course, when I repeat, in Ankara President Putin and President Erdogan drew the energy maps together with our neighbours Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, it was already known that this would not happen because there are geographical factors, and I repeat: Bulgaria is an insurmountable factor in the Balkans and I hope this will be for centuries. As such, South Stream is in history and the gas distributor is on the agenda. There, together with the European Commission, you know how many commissioners, head of directorates were in Bulgaria and now on the 23rd and 24rd we continue the working meeting, to take it out as a priority of the European Commission, together with interconnectors with Romania, Greece, Turkey, Serbia and the currently available for Greece and Macedonia. For this purpose, we replace our compressor stations with the most modern reverse stations and we are ready, when necessary, to increase the capacity of the pipes. When this time comes, I will enter the parliament and ask you to support us to invest as a country in our gas distribution and main transmission network and only Bulgaria to collect its fees. The gas distributor has its advantages because it, first of all, already has a great interest in European companies, global companies, to participate. In it, apart from ours, after ten or as Mr. Stoinev said yesterday after 12 years, but they and 12 years will pass the time, and from Han Asparuh, from Theres, from Silistar, from the Galata, and why not from other sources in the country, I hope the real southern gas corridor from the. This is the fourth largest locality there, from the azeri with which we have negotiated, signed agreements, but this gas must come, and respectively Russian gas across the Black Sea. There is already one big problem, because from what I have as information, the Turkish part of the Black Sea will not be allowed to pass, even if one day we go to build it. In a word, relations are quite deteriorated there, and in my opinion, quite lasting in the future. The European Commission considers that a similar gas distributor with several diversified sources of gas, including the ten billion pipes that we are making with Greece, will allow, if liquefied gas comes there, their NG-terms, in this gas distributor to actually collect from several sources of gas. This is very real to happen, especially against the backdrop of the North Stream 2 (North Stream) which started. There is indeed much progress in this regard, but I will say nothing more, because we have turned things around a bit now. Together with the European Commission, when we are ready, to propose this joint project to stakeholders accordingly. Personally, I'm optimistic about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u93	Would you like to use a line? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u94	Prime Minister, I'm not hiding that I'm surprised by your answer. At least for the first time I am hearing such a strong negative assessment of the project.South Stream, as you were quite recently a judge for the realization of this project and on this occasion I would like to remind you that you are somewhat consistent in your negativity, because exactly one month ago during a forum of the Bulgarian-American Chamber of Commerce, you said frankly that you are the person who has the greatest merit for stopping energy projects such as South Stream and the Bulgarian-American Chamber of Commerce. Your Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Bachvarova also said shortly before you that the government of Boyko Borisov has the merit of stopping the project South Stream and the NPP project Belene. In this sense you are consistent, but consistent, in quotes, of course, but it seems to me that, again, I say: you are also at odds with the policy of your first government regarding the South Stream Project and the policy of Mr. Plamen Oresharski's next government. At the end of the day, as you mentioned the project "North Stream 2"...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u95	Oresharski stopped him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u96	...I can't understand the logic of the North Stream.The South Stream project should be transformed into hubs instead of developing in its original version and under the name "Bulgarian Stream." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u97	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u98	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! I hope that everyone's memory is large enough to remember when and how and how they were signed from 2006, and how these projects were implemented. Each of them has its positive and, of course, characteristics that could not be continued. Infringment procedure towards Bulgaria was carried out during the government of Oresharski by the European Commission. Don't you remember? Mr. Oresharski himself came out and publicly said that he stopped South Stream. If you don't remember that much, as you quote carefully what I said, keep an eye on the rest of the stuff. Secondly, what negativity is there after the Russian president came out and said in Ankara that the South Stream is dead and becomes a Turkish stream? How can we force someone to bring gas?! Thirdly, since there is a European rule on the third liberalisation package, we must respect it. Fourth, I am just talking about the Bulgarian stream. I am talking about the Russian company not 50-50 to become our pipes, but to be 100% Bulgarian. What don't you like about it? What don't you like about 100% Bulgarian pipes?! It is precisely a Bulgarian stream. And if the Russian side wants to sell at our border, they are welcome in this gas distributor, where we are taking it, as Turkey is working with them. Turkey buys at entry and sells at the exit, why not make us and already interested parties - Serbia, Hungary to Austria - use it? We are keeping our third package with the European Commission's sanctions. I think that would be something that you would all support, it's good. I understand that your goal is to say something negative about me. [[crowd cheering, laughing]] But no one can deny what I've done. [[Applause from GERB.]] In that order of thought, Mr. Mikov to say that yesterday this joke he made with the dog Chaika was unique. [[(Laughter) Loud noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u99	Prime Minister, thank you for participating in today's blitz control. [[(Radio.) Loud noise.)]] We move on to the second round of questions to the Deputy Prime Ministers, the group of GERB is the first. Do we have a question? Here you are, Lord Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Vice Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Today, as the beginning of the new year in Parliament and in the new session, the parliamentary groups made their declarations and presented their main priorities for next year. Our GERB group declares as part of its main priorities namely the fight against corruption, the holding of an accelerated debate on anti-corruption law and its subsequent adoption by the National Assembly. We declare ourselves zero tolerance against both domestic and serious organised crime, as well as to continue judicial reform. Last year we had focused on amendments to the Constitution and now we should continue with the laws that should be proposed. Since the very beginning of our full membership in the European Union, Bulgaria and Romania have been subjected to a specific mechanism for cooperation and verification in the area of justice and the fight against organised crime, and this year the report is expected to come out on 27 January. The reports in question are also a kind of measure of the state and what has been done during the year, and a number of individuals have already spoken about the upcoming report. [[Loud noise.]] In this regard, my question is to you, Mrs. Kuneva, as a representative deputy prime minister for relations with the European institutions: what are your expectations for the Commission's report on our country's progress on the cooperation and verification mechanism, and what do we expect the report to include on 27 January? Thank you. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u101	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Colleagues, the noise in the hall is very high.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u102	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue is really important and very timely at the beginning of this session. Allow me, taking the floor now before you for the first time, to wish you many courage and many successes in our joint work. Indeed, we rely on the National Assembly, of course, on the parties supporting the majority, but also on all of you, things that I now want to share, to become a national priority. If I have to answer you in one word, Mr. National Representative, my expectations are poor if I have to answer you in two words....................... What we will see in the report will, of course, be a peer-review outside, an objective look. We will take care, together with Minister Zaharieva, who is actually coordinating all the work on the mechanism, to give the smallest detail that is related to something that has a result and something that has been done. You know that the European Commission has several missions to prepare the report, with representatives of the Commission meeting with all the authorities, including you. The last such mission was the beginning of December. What are the passes we made? Parliament has not adopted the Law on the Prevention of High Level Corruption. We have scandalous recordings that still haven't been tested. We have no convictions for high-level corruption, we do not have much movement in flagrant cases that the European Commission is watching, but I will also concentrate on what is still done in my communication with the Commission, something that I am doing all the time. Changes to the Constitution, giving way to judicial reform. The expectations are that they will be strengthened by the Law on the Judiciary. The division of the SJC has been adopted something the European Commission has long pleaded for. We have an elected Chief Inspector of the SJC, to remind you, there was not three years ago. The IDC adopted changes to the possibilities for imposing non-violence measures, as well as wider control possibilities for their effective implementation. Rules have been adopted for the assessment of the workload of the judges, which will take effect from 1 April 2016. The rules regulate objective measurers for the legal and factual complexity of the cases. National Anti-Corruption Strategy has been adopted. An Interdepartmental National Council on Anti-Corruption Policies and a Civil Council was established. Sectoral anti-corruption plans for more risky areas of health, energy, agriculture are being developed. The first one we discussed at the National Anti-Corruption Council was the Ministry of Interior's plan. At the moment, the focus is indeed on the Judicial Law, which will respond to many of the European Commission's criticisms. Of course, I would like to stress that this is a key Anti-Corruption Act. We have a prepared version of new proposals that we will discuss with the parliamentary groups. I would especially like to thank Mrs Tsacheva for her commitment to discuss how to move forward faster. I wish we wouldn't waste any more time and achieve these important results. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is no doubt that the bad report automatically means a bad image of the country. And when we talk about investments, when we talk about the Bulgarian Presidency, when we talk about how strong Europe is, the answer can be as strong as its weakest link. I do not want Bulgaria to be a weak link in Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] You won't take advantage of the right to a line. The next question is from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers! For many years, Mrs. Bachvarova, welcome from China! It's obvious you just landed and managed to hold a press conference. While you and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior were on a business trip, the country was goosebumped by violent crime robberies, raiding villages, killings. Yesterday, on a matter of your resignation, the Prime Minister, whom you acknowledge to be your most personal consultant in the affairs of the Ministry of Interior, has fiercely defended you by transferring responsibility to the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Today you have been able to hold a press conference and have stated that there are circles aimed at destabilization of the Ministry of Interior, government and state on the one hand. On the other hand, Mr. Kamenov, the mayor of Vratsa, says that here in Vratsa, this is a daily life, meaning the absence of police officers. In fact, what is going on at the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Bachvarova, and you, as head of this office, are you confident that you can guarantee the security of Bulgarian citizens? And one more thing. How many more corpses does it take to damage your sense of stability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u105	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Merdjanov! I'm impressed that you've quickly informed yourself of the briefing I gave, but you're misquoting me. The Ministry of Interior is working extremely hard. At the briefing in question, I had the opportunity to say that while Bulgarian MPs were resting, businessmen also had long vacations, the Ministry of Interior worked and during the holidays there were no problems. At the beginning of the political season began some speculations which I determine are attempts, speculations with interpretations of events. You must be extremely ill-intentioned in order not to take into account the fact that the Ministry of Interior is working extremely hard on each of the cases we have in recent days. We're working extremely well, but there's still an attack on the Ministry of Interior. The attack on the Ministry of Interior for me is an attack on the security of the state. I, as Minister, interpret it this way. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] . We work well, there are results. If you are well-intentioned, you will remember whether you had problems during your vacation, you will follow up on the work on specific cases and you will look at the statistics to see that what is happening is extremely unpleasant, ugly and I sympathize with the victims. However, speculation on these cases, which are being made, are politically motivated, are related to interests which, although they seem only as criticism of the Ministry of Interior, actually want to destabilize the Ministry of Interior. What I can say is that there are circles that have an interest in the Ministry of Interior not working. These are these circles, and they are the authors of this attack.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u107	Which circles?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u108	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u109	I said that to the briefing: "In the media you will recognize them! " - and I defined them very accurately. The responsibility, I am far from giving you advice, but our common responsibility for the security of our country is not to speculate on the topic of the Ministry of Interior. What has happened in recent days is exactly such a series of speculations and it is not random, it is not from one place, it is from many countries. These speculations on the topic of the Ministry of Interior destabilize the system, demotivate employees and create in citizens a rather exaggerated sense of inability to deal with this problem. There's no objectivity of grades. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There is no objectivity of the assessments on this occasion. So I think it doesn't matter who the Ministry of Interior is being attacked, at least for me. The great danger comes from the fact that, indeed, these trials, which are with quite a lot of acceleration and continuation, are aimed at destabilizing the security system. I won't let them. I'm here because someone has to say it. None of those who have spoken these last days have actually told the truth. Everyone uses the subject to accumulate their own political or any other dividend.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u110	Line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u111	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, we are not authors of speculation. We ask questions. We have no claim that we understand from the work at the Ministry of Interior, but we ask questions and we cannot be calm when citizens ask these questions. In addition, your chief consultant yesterday in the briefing, defending you, determined the Bulgarian reality with the American series. But do you know the difference between American series and Bulgarian reality? In American series at the end, killers are always exposed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u112	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u113	Mr. Merdjanov, you are a member of the Internal Commission and you know that solving a crime is a process for which different institutions are responsible. No one is saying that, in the end, whatever the Ministry of Interior does, the prosecution and the court is dependent on other institutions as well. No one pays attention to that fact. The Ministry of Interior didn't catch the killers, yes, it could catch them at the scene of the crime, but when you have a well-prepared murder, there are other institutions involved and they are also responsible. And you, as legislators, must take this responsibility to see how much I will not give the definitions, but how many points of legislation can be changed so as to support the work of the Ministry of Interior. Some of the proposals will be presented to you, but there are a series of others that I hope you will still be aware of as a specialised Commission and members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u114	But we don't have a chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u115	I can't comment on that fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u116	But please don't engage in dialogue, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u117	There's no motive the Ministry of Interior wouldn't want to solve these murders. On the contrary, the motive is fast and immediately do so. But if you know the process itself, you know how many difficulties there are afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u118	There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u119	They're gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u120	There won't be a question. The Reformation Block is on the move. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u121	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question concerns judicial reform and is therefore aimed at Mrs. Kuneva. My question is this. Obviously, there are enormous public expectations for judicial reform and its adequate continuation this year. We have heard in the declarations, I think of all the parliamentary groups that they share this issue as an important and priority and obviously concrete action is expected from both the executive in the face of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly as a legislative body, as legislative changes are needed. In the first days of the year we heard from the new Minister of Justice a request for the establishment of this Council on Implementation of the Strategy. In fact, this is the Council, which is set in the strategy that we adopted at the beginning of last year. Here were stated intentions regarding the Law on the Judiciary. But here it seems that we could comment on things a little more in detail. For example, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I think it is interesting to say whether it has been commented on by the Council of Ministers and whether it is envisaged with regard to the Law on the Judiciary to adopt what has already been prepared within the Ministry of Justice and whether it should be adapted and upgraded or if there is any other vision of the way it will work. We all remember that this Law went through a very serious public discussion, including in judicial areas, and it gave quite good suggestions for improvements. That's one direction of my question. Of course, we all also know very well that in order for judicial reform to actually happen, only the amendments to the Constitution in the way they were made, of course, not in the best way, but in themselves they are not enough and without the corresponding changes in the laws that will not happen either. So obviously the parliament is expected to adopt the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the procedural laws within these three months quickly and adequately. So, if you could generalize something like an action plan, if it's already been discussed how to act within this really very short period of time on these extremely important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u122	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u123	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! First of all, I would like to tell you that both the former Minister of Justice and Mrs Zaharieva are open and dialogue people. Therefore, at any time when there is a need for further discussion of the time when production will be presented to the Ministry of Justice, I am sure Minister Zaharieva will be available. I will also add my efforts and collegiate support. With regard to the Council: yes, that's right. She invited us to propose lawyers, including from the political offices, so that a good idea could be realized.. the functioning of such a Council to help and strengthen the pace in the implementation of judicial reform. There is no change in the Strategy regarding judicial reform, remains to be implemented the same. As for the extent to which all the comments given in the discussions will be used, let us give her the opportunity, however, to say more detail. But the direction is to work in continuity. The constitution has set very rapid deadlines, and that is why the Ministry of Justice is working very hard to fit in at this time. I want to tell you that Minister Zaharieva is absolutely aware of how much depends on the good performance not only of the Ministry of Justice, but also of the government bill. She will be very persistent in dialogue with all the parliamentary groups in Parliament and with the Legal Committee, of which you are part, so I know that you will have many opportunities to work with her. In my opinion, it is more important to focus our efforts not on what is laid down as a term in the Constitution, which supports us and on which you have already made a decision, but on things that are no less important and we must be no less ambitious. I'm talking about setting up a new penal policy. You know, it's a very, very important pending commitment to us, and it's been a long time. We have said ourselves that we want a new penal policy and a new Penal Code, and then we have not been able to produce. That is why Minister Zaharieva, and today we have spoken on this issue, will focus her efforts on presenting such a concept so that the project itself of the Penal Code can be done more quickly. There is no sense, naturally, to give something that does not work just to fulfil a commitment that has been adopted before the European Commission two years ago and, as they say, people are looking for dues. Once again, I assure you that Minister Zaharieva will be dealt with in terms of continuity and full openness.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I hardly need to repeat how high public expectations are. I would just like to recall that at the end of last year, somewhat as an expression of these expectations, a citizens' initiative was introduced into the National Assembly, which also insists on judicial reform, even to reopen the Constitution on the more serious proposals that Parliament did not consider. In other words, we do have a very important and responsible job and a very serious responsibility to society. It seems to me that we must make the most of our efforts to fit within the time limits recorded in the Constitution, which we are obliged to comply with. Of course, there have been cases in the past, you, I think, also remember very well when such deadlines have not been respected. I will remind you, for example, of the division of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court at the time. It wasn't done until 1996 and the Constitution was adopted in 1991. I won't recall who in those years ruled, but I wish we didn't repeat these bad practices. In this sense, my appeal is really to concentrate on what we already have as a product, to upgrade and improve it and to really not aggravate things within this short period of time, so that the changes in the Constitution can work out and give a real start to reform, not to aggravate things at all. Perhaps indeed with this new penal policy that you mentioned, which is undoubtedly necessary, but can hardly be prepared and proposed within such a short period of time. I also remember that there was even a new penal code project, maybe a year or two ago, which didn't get public support and practically hung, and it was working for a long time. My personal belief is to divide things, to concentrate on what is most urgent to do now, and the rest we continue in perspective, as well as in strategy, I think it is done and it seems to me that it is the best option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u126	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u127	Just to be clear. The law on the judiciary is bound by a term of the Constitution. The new concept of penal policy comes to correct what, with a previous project, passed at the expired legislation of the previous National Assembly, we are obliged to do. Without good substantive laws, you can't go forward either. Stability is necessary in order for us to be ambitious and I hope this will be a starting point in our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u128	There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question will be to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev. It would be good for him to answer the Prime Minister, but you heard in previous questions that there were MPs who were very interested in various foreign pipes, through which to carry energy sources, naturally without any of them to justify what Bulgaria would benefit from the transfer of these energy sources. In fact, the big question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is Bulgaria's energy independence as a country. From this point of view, my question to you is: what is going on with the research of our own fields, in particular..................................................... and the field..... Han Asparuh.................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, I would like to recall that, as early as 2012, the OMV, "Total" and "Repsol" received a concession for exploration and extraction of gas and oil in block 1-21, i.e. "Han Asparuh." But in recent weeks and months we have received unpleasant information that for almost six months these activities have been practically stopped. No action is taken, and we expected at the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 precisely from this locality already in Bulgaria on the Bulgarian pipes and transmission network to start, to finally run our Bulgarian gas. I would be delighted if Bulgarian gas flowed back to the Bulgarian stream to the Jugba station and to the Russian station in Anapa and we could sell it at these decent prices between $400-500 to our neighbours from Russia, from Ukraine, from Turkey. This is the important question: what happens, what are the prospects? We know from the published analysis that the data on serious amounts of gas is very encouraging in the field of Han Asparuh. At the same time, we know that the Romanian side may be drawing gas from the same locality and already serves almost 90% of its needs from such an energy source. My question is: what is Bulgaria's energy independence policy? What are the deadlines in which we expect to finally begin to supply ourselves with gas, and, God willing, with oil from our own fields? I will ask you to give me an accurate and comprehensive answer as possible from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u130	Mr. Donchev, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u131	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mr. Bayraktarov! The list of questions, their strategic dimensions and the requirement to provide technical data can hardly fit in the short time I have within the procedure. I'll try anyway. The fact is that when talking about energy security, especially in the gas sector, conversation is often done the wrong way. The import from other countries is often commented, whether we are talking about the direction from the east, understand Russia, or we are talking about the direction from the south, Caspian gas or gas supplied throughNG-terminals, which is incorrect positioning of the poles. The emphasis must be elsewhere and it must be linked to the possibilities for its own extraction. In any way commenting on new gas routes, which is a good topic, should not exclude, should not replace this hierarchy of priorities. Several rather technical markers. The fact is that neighbouring Romania satisfies about 90% of its own production consumption. However, the clarification is that it is not done in the Black Sea. Much of the yield has been fixed, and for decades, in the land part of the country. Bulgaria also has its own yield at the time that varies over the years, but could provide us with no more than 7, 8 to 10% in a good year of the entire volumes of gas used. As for the ongoing procedure, you can imagine that one of the reasons for the delay in 2015, which is not a secret, was commented, is the low prices of gas and oil, which makes all companies involved in the large consortium, which is developing Han Asparuh, to postpone their programme by nearly one year. The information I have, the assurance I have, is that all activities, including real drilling, will happen in 2016. I hope this commitment will be respected. From here, the question is the steps for the other blocks, including the other blocks, for the Silistars, despite record low gas and oil prices, to continue at the necessary speed. I see you've been tracking the data. Indeed, what we have at the moment as a forecast is extremely promising. I wouldn't commit to volumes or years, but it's better than we expected years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u132	The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased that we have a one-way mindset on this issue, because in fact it also concerns the future economic development of Bulgaria, which is extremely important; it is also a matter of national security, if I must say so. Perhaps it is an argument the decline in gas and oil prices in recent years, there is nothing wrong with that. The bad news is for others who trade with such sources. I think that, despite everything, we need to stand up for our position to be developed and, at the right time, to start being exploited. In this respect, we have no reason to put up with such a delay. I think that in this direction the government should be more persistent, more often reminding the concessionaire and the companies who received permission to study the 1-24-Silistar block because, as you can see, this benefits the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people. I'm pleased with your answer. I am glad that we have a one-way thought, because energy independence is perhaps a prime issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u134	A hole? There's not gonna be a duvet. The group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center is now in order. Mr. Haytov, we're listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Usually in this procedure, I ask questions about crime, about the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. This time, however, my question is in another direction and this is the following. More than 15 thousand CEZ subscribers in Montana, Vratsa, Lovech and Pleven districts and more than 30 settlements remained without electricity in the most hated morning of January 7th this year. Unclear responses from the electricity distribution company followed. In this regard, my question is that the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev will answer, if not, which you decide: what the state is doing so that the Bulgarian citizens do not remain without electricity in these freezing days, because as we have learned from the information emissions, there is a strong chill. It is extremely unpleasant in the 21st century for more than 24 hours to stop electricity and people to have such difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u136	For an answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u137	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Haytov! Cold and snow are usually not a problem with electricity supply. The possible problems, as was the case in particular, are from icing the electrical cables. This was the specific reason for the difficult situation in Northwestern Bulgaria and the inability of many citizens to use this basic service. It's about accidents on the network for low and medium voltage. In their main part they are commitments of the company quoted by you, which is responsible for the electricity supply of end-users in Northwestern Bulgaria. As far as I am informed, a great deal of the damage has been removed within a relatively short period of time, I mean within the given day. If there is a delay in the removal of damage due to inactivity or insufficient mobilisation of the company, there is a way for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to impose sanctions if there have been such cases. However, at least my information was that much of the cases were removed within the same day or day. In other similar situations, regardless of the operator's responsibility, we have carried out additional mobilisation if such assistance was requested or needed. This is about other structures for the ESO (power system operator), NEK. When there is a crisis situation, it is ultimately clear whose responsibilities are, but any additional mobilisation and any assistance from another structure is beneficial. God forbid in the days ahead, when time is expected to deteriorate, we should have such situations! However, if any appear, unfortunately not for the first time, there is a preliminary readiness, plan and organization. All State resources, including state-owned companies in energy, will be mobilised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u138	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you yourself as a position and function are sufficiently authoritative. I believe that the main thing that we should do from now on is to prevent such incidents from happening again. What you said was useful and positive. It's accurate. I'd allow myself a collegiate council. Perhaps a letter from you would sound more correct. Pay attention to this company to fulfil its commitments so that the Bulgarian citizens in this part of our country do not suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u140	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u141	Dear Mr. Haytov, I will allow myself to comment on your particular and principled issue in a slightly greater depth. It relates not only to how companies fulfil their commitments, but also to something else. The fact is that many of their networks are in poor condition. Here I am not only talking about Northwestern Bulgaria, there are specific cases in Sofia as well. The fact is that new investments are needed. I would only point out that, at any pricing, when they pass through the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, this issue is raised that it is necessary to raise the price in view of new investments. You can imagine that any decision in this direction is difficult to raise the price at the expense of new investments. Currently, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, selected by you, which is independent, has a balanced opinion on this issue. One second theme is how the servers are maintained, the routes of the air lines. Since the snow disaster last year in the region of Smolyansko, there was a concrete proposal for expansion of the elk in which the electricity lines are moving in order to avoid the risk of falling trees from heavy snow in cases of icing electrical cables. Although such a solution seems simple and easy, I would like to assure you that it is not. You can imagine that in terms of such a proposal there is a negative opinion from a number of NGOs working in the field of ecology. An additional complicating element in such a simple proposal is that when establishing a new, wider waitout, i.e. a wider route away from the cables, a further establishment of property rights is needed, which costs money. This, however, is a subject that must definitely not be closed, and it must not be remembered in the next snow disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u142	Now follows the group of "Attacka". Professor Stanilov will ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u143	Mrs. President, my question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, at the end of last session I asked you a question about the crisis with the car signs in Sofia and throughout the country. Then you explained to me in detail what the difficulties are, where they come from and how they will be resolved. In addition, you said that the crisis is practically over, signs are already there and this will not happen again. At the end of last week and at the beginning of this year it actually turned out that the signs in the Sofia government had ended again in some of the district governments in the country. In addition, the media are full of reports that this crisis will soon not be overcome and that signs will be gone for a long time. Against the background of geopolitical and political turmoil in the region and in the country, this question may seem small, but it has caused great difficulties in the citizens, their business suffers. If you believe your words, this crisis should not have happened again. Please answer me how and in what way will you overcome the crisis and within what deadlines? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u144	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u145	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stanilov, thank you for this question to make another clarification on this so painful topic recently. The appeal case of each step in the award of public procurement contracts for the delivery of the necessary signs is deepening. I would like to start by telling you that today and in a conversation with the Prime Minister, we have found a solution that I hope will help us quickly overcome this situation. Especially in Sofia, the circumstances are as follows. The company that has won the direct contract with the SDVR has announced that there is a technical problem that will be removed by the end of the day. As I told you then, we decentralized the orders in each region to monitor much more closely what the needs are, how the charging itself is going. Currently, each Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior is negotiated separately with a supplier company. This negotiation was reached, you know, after two proceedings were appealed. They're both suspended because of complaints. Under the first procedure the work continues and tomorrow the proposals with the prices of the individual companies will be opened. However, even if a company is chosen, the Ministry of Interior still has no right to enter into a contract with this company because we are waiting for the court's decision on the previous complaint. You say the media is constantly reporting this problem. Yes, I have ordered very detailed and continuous information to be given to citizens, especially where there are difficulties so that we do not waste their time waiting for them to be able to plan their actions and at any moment when we are ready, they will know that they can go. The case is very complicated. I hope that the new Public Procurement Act will find a solution. Today's decision also hopes to get us out of this situation very quickly. What I can say is that the Ministry of Interior has been dealing with this problem since August last year and we are acting according to the laws and regulations. It turns out that this is not the best strategy, because there are other contrasts that allow such an important public procurement to be appealed continuously and in this way to hinder the work of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u146	The line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u147	Dear Madam Vice Prime Minister, I again accept this explanation as valid. It must be because in Bulgaria this is not only the case with this public procurement. The point is that citizens are not interested in this. They're interested in the fact that there are no signs. I'm saying it again. If there is a difficulty with the procurement, with public procurement of such a nature, then your experts could introduce a special amendment to the Public Procurement Act in order to overcome this case more easily. In the practice of public procurement, there is another moment - there are public contracts for which the appeal does not stop the procedure. We in the National Assembly will probably vote on such a proposal if the Law introduces such an amendment that this type of public procurement or group of public procurement should not be stopped because of the appeal, this issue could be resolved more quickly. As far as I recall, I have been a Member of the National Assembly for the past eleven years, so far in the National Assembly this issue has not arisen. How they've been decided so far, appeals haven't been made, and I just can't explain it. I hope that you will resolve this matter as soon as possible and that this will not happen again, of course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u148	Will you use the hole, Mrs. Bachvarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u149	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u150	Now there's a chance the ABC group. There won't be a question. Mr. Velizar Enchev's question to Mrs. Kuneva, according to his preliminary request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Ms. Kuneva, four days ago Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said he would request an extraordinary meeting at government and state level in the European Union on the occasion of attacks on women during the Christmas celebrations in Germany. At this meeting, he will raise a very serious issue, first of all, with regard to European Council President Donald Tusk, and second of all, to European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker for tightening control and security at European borders. Whereas when we are talking about refugee quotas, and this subject will be affected at this extraordinary meeting, if it takes place, Poland has already announced that it will accept only one percentage of refugees, Hungary has rejected the quota principle at all, and countries such as Romania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia do not want quotas for refugees without specifying any percentages. I will even add as a final option that Slovakia has already announced that it is suing the European Union in the Court of Justice of the European Union. My question to you is perfectly specific: do you support, do you approve this position of Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico and if there is such an emergency meeting, and there should be such an extraordinary meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the European Union, what do you think the position of the Republic of Bulgaria should be?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u152	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u153	Mr. Enchev, you actually asked two questions. One is linked to quotas and the other is related to the reaction to what happened in Cologne. Isn't that right? I got it right. Whether Mr. Fico will propose such an item on the Council's agenda, of course, that the prime ministers and the Council's permanent representative, Mr. Tusk, would decide if it could be included. In the beginning, there are two forms. One is official, the other is during informal conversations. During lunch discussions, no doubt this will be a topic of discussion. I know how it goes, and I know that this kind of event never goes without a comment, even in an informal format. My opinion is absolutely supposed to this is unacceptable and compliance with the law is for everyone. In this sense, I know that Slovakia is actually in an election campaign. Mr. Fico changed his campaign logo. It was a work for Slovakia. It is now a work for Slovakia. At the same time, from another political spectrum, by the French Prime Minister, there was a statement that the Stability Pact, which affects financial stability and the deficit, must now go into the background, because the Security Pact is more important for Europe. The starting point here is that we cannot have a double standard in terms of respect for human rights. What happened in Cologne is an attack on guaranteed human rights and a violation of public order, which is absolutely unacceptable. With regard to the admission quotas for asylum seekers. They are not an instrument for transferring responsibility from one side to the other, but an attempt to distribute the burden so the Bulgarian government considers it. In this sense, they are an emergency measure. As you first heard from the Prime Minister, Bulgaria supports them because it believes that as an external border of the Union at any moment, it may find itself in a position to seek solidarity with others, as Italy and Greece are seeking solidarity at the moment. We are a responsible member, we are protecting the Union's external border very well, as the British Prime Minister has established and confirmed, but Bulgaria cannot and should not run away from solidarity in the distribution of the migration burden. Poland, which is currently known for serious anti-migration moods, has begun to accept people under the quota system, although it is officially opposed to the mandatory migration burden. Until Poland started the reception under the quota system, about 200 people were restocked at a certain number of 140 thousand for the whole Union. Ireland has built 26 such centres, changed its asylum law as well. This law, for example, does not tolerate the gathering of families, which so far has been a very strong policy of each of the countries and of Europe as a whole. Ireland will accept 4,000 people. Bulgaria is fully capable of fulfilling its part of the quota agreement without leading to economic, social and demographic turmoil. At the moment, fortunately, there are fewer than 1,000 people in the SAB centers. The quota system is not a permanent but a temporary solution to the migration crisis in which the European Union is yet to resolve. There are two issues: the integration capacity, which is very important, and how we solve the refugee problem permanently.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u154	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u155	I'm partially satisfied with your answer, but to be perfectly specific. I think, as my personal opinion and as a person who has worked for seven years in Bulgarian diplomacy, that Bulgaria should join the position of the so-called Visegrad Group (Visegrad Group), to which, I understand, Romania is solidarity very much, as the Visegrad Group is too close to our interests, and we are also a border state. The fact that the data that you are exporting is absolutely true is a modest number of refugees in Bulgaria compared to the problems that countries like Austria and Germany have, but as many world analysts have already said, a new refugee wave is headed towards Europe in the coming months, which could surpass even a million. In this sense, it seems to me that if we speak in a preventive manner, nothing prevents us from joining the Visegrad Group on this position, when it comes to, I repeat, only the refugee quota. That is, to establish an exact percentage or to reject at all the refugee quota, which, of course, I am aware, is not real, as we are a border state and should not even afford such ideas. But what prevents us from putting a percentage, as Poland did a percentage, really too modest? I am not referring at all to the possibility, such as Slovakia, of suing the European Union for the quota principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u156	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u157	Mr. Enchev, there will really be no more important problem than the issue of refugees and migration in the European Union. I believe that it will remain during the Bulgarian Presidency in 2018. I hope that we will contribute to finding a universal solution. Other than quotas, at the moment the European Union cannot offer as a form of solidarity and not weigh on just one country. I am glad that you have actually highlighted this yourself. Otherwise, whether there should be a ceiling of how many refugees Europe can accept at all is really a thinking debate. From there on, however, we need to be aware that it applies, and if there is a way in which refugees are distributed, yes, the quota system is exactly that. She means both the population and economic opportunities and gross domestic product, if you will, at the moment and what Europe can provide as aid. You know, there are two new funds that actually deal precisely with the support of migration policy. I think that a good direction is what the Commission is currently developing by giving more money to countries that are bordering and from which refugees come, including our neighbours, so that the main burden can nevertheless be directed beyond Europe's borders. That would be a good long-term policy. Another thing that I think it is important to emphasise, because you said about diplomacy, that would actually be the answer to the question. If these conflicts start to decrease, Europe has a plan by 2018 to accept the so-called.Syn card, similar to the green card in the United States of America, so that it can control this process of people who come outside Europe and want to settle down to work here. All talks about the ageing population of Europe and the need for labour are a fact, but we need to actually know what kind of labour and what kind of people enter Europe. Indeed, this is a point of intersection of a very complex conversation, security, humanity, opportunities and public sentiment. But this is one of the issues our Parliament should be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-13.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Colleagues, thank the deputy prime ministers for their participation in today's blitz control. Less than five minutes to 2:00. I declare a regular plenary session tomorrow with the starting hour "9.00." I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
