ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced at the end of yesterday's plenary session, we have concluded the debates on the First Voting of bills amending and supplementing the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. On the basis of our Rules, the vote was announced this morning at 9:00. I therefore put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Privatization Act and post-privatization control with importers Manol Genov and a group of MPs, I recall, supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 114, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Privatization Act and post-privatization control with an importer, the Council of Ministers, also supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 111, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. There has been a request for a declaration on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Today is June 2nd, the Day of Botev, the people who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria, an expression of the deep worship and at the same time many questions about the fate of Bulgaria as they wanted it and for which our national heroes fought. On the Epiphany 6 January 1848, in a new style, the star of Hristo Botev rises in the day of purification. 168 years since then, this star has been lighting up our path. He was born to be great, he was born to be a leader, he was born to love his country more than anything, he was born to abandon his personal happiness for the sake of the happiness and well-being of his people, his Bulgaria. He inspired many big Bulgarians to walk, to be in his step and to give their lives for the country, together with him to shine on the Bulgarian sky. He was born to become a genius poet with only 20 poems translated into dozens of languages throughout the world. He was born to become an irrational national hero, to become a true patriot, infinitely necessary today. His covenants are unshakable: Only he who is free can be called man in the full sense of the word. As the eye is used for light, the ear of sound, the mind of understanding the simplest truths, the idea of freedom is all-powerful and the love for it can do anything! Immortal is Botev's example. Its 2 June is a day of hundreds of our compatriots who died for the honour and freedom of Bulgaria for its worthy place in the world. We are heir to their example of faith, patriotism, humanity, democracy. That is why, as people's chosen, we have a role model, an incentive to be equal to the ideals of heroes and to want to make every effort, mind, will, wisdom for the good day of Bulgaria, for the safe life tomorrow, for a future that meets the ideals of Botev, Levski and thousands sacrificed their lives for us, for justice, for freedom, for democracy and independence. 2 June is a symbol that Bulgaria does not want to be a slave! This is what makes us all stand peacefully, peacefully before the insatiable spirit, peacefully for yet another popular tribute! And when the chosen people of Botev can tell only one thing from good and evil, to make the right choice when the sirens turn, when the bells strike, we hold our breath for them and for us! Never be traitors or infidels, never betray our people, no matter how difficult it may be, to find in our heart that light given by God, which shows us the right way, to be, above all, men and patriots, to be grateful for everything we have inherited as spirit and self-esteem, such as faith and courage! It's June 2nd. The sirens are roaring, the bells are ringing, and the echo from the Balkan sings, "He's alive, he's alive!" He's alive, he's alive! He's alive, he's alive! Bow to their bright memory! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. A report came in from the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to your kindest attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 654-01-67, submitted by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin on 20 May 2016. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 26 May 2016, a draft law on supplement to the Law on Radio and Television was reviewed, No 654-01-67, submitted by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin on 20 May 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivo Atanasov, member of the Council for Electronic Media. The bill on behalf of the importers was presented by Ms. Polina Karastoyanova. The aim of the bill is to provide a legal opportunity for the Council for Electronic Media to implement the procedure for the selection of general directors of public media through a competition and not to have a gap in the management of the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television. On behalf of the Council for Electronic Media Mr. Ivo Atanasov expressed support for the bill. After the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Radio and Television Act, No 654-01-67, submitted by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin on 20 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. On behalf of the importer, will you present the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u6	Thank you, Madam President. The motives are very short. The very fact that the project has been signed by all colleagues in the Commission, representatives of the parliamentary groups, fully consensually, is an expression of support for the work and of the Council for Electronic Media, and is a kind of guarantee for the work of the public media and therefore their leadership, and I believe that specifically the main and sole purpose of the proposed Draft is to provide the Council for Electronic Media to strictly implement the selection procedure through a competition and not to be void in the management of BNT and BNR if the three-year term expires during the specific procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Karastoyanova. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to join it? The text is short, very clear. I can't see. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 654-01-67, submitted by the MPs Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin. Please vote. Vote 115 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 12. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure, Mrs. Karastoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose that the bill be adopted in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u9	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote this procedural proposal of Ms. Karastoyanova to hold simultaneously in a plenary sitting in the first and second votes on the bill. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 116 MPs: 105, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We're listening for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u10	Thank you, Madam President. "Address to the Law on Radio and Television" It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 66 supposed to In case when the mandate of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Radio expires, the choice under para. 1 has not been carried out, they shall continue to exercise their powers until the new Director-General takes office.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u11	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This text seems routine and logical when the authority that designates representatives in regulatory institutions has not made the choice to continue the term of office of the person in office. And this principle is not only specific to the management of national radio and television, it could act in any case. If we look at the consequences of such an extension of the mandate, we will see that this is becoming a practice and not an exception. It became in the Competition Commission, likely to happen with the Financial Supervision Commission and with other authorities. And here is not the question of evaluating the work for the management of the Bulgarian National Television, I can even say that we should give stronger support to the public media, because in today's reality they can be one of the few islands of relatively objective and diverse information and opportunities for political discussion. So I appreciate their role in today's times and again I say that they should even receive additional support from Parliament and other institutions. But just because indefinitely the mandates of the leaders of important regulators are being extended does not mean that there are no potential candidates to appear and hold a contest to start a new term, but that it is much more convenient to influence on people who know that they have already passed their mandate and probably until the presidential elections or other important events are over, things will have to be what they are now are. This is a style of governance that is applied by the current majority, and I am even surprised that this does not meet an objection in the National Assembly, because this is now a political and not just a technological question of how to manage the various institutions, since they have not started their new mandate. That's the big question. That is why I abstained from first reading, so I will not support the proposal.... precisely for those reasons that remain disguised and they are neither mentioned in the specialized Commission, would pass through the Parliament such an important political issue. Because the role of regulators is to be independent, to provide a broad representation and objective control over important public sectors, not to add to any government, or in them people to look for comfortable places to occupy their respective positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u13	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! In a way, I would agree with the opinion of Mr. Stoilov, who spoke before me. There's another point he missed. What do we do when the CEM doesn't act? If the CEM decides not to elect a director, we should now wait for them to organise and do so. However, if such a step is not taken, a new Director of BNT will not be elected and thus will not comply with the current Law. The other thing that is probably right and we should think about the national directors of television and the BNR to be elected by the National Assembly, given that they allocate a budget of over 100 million, about as much as the budget of a ministry, and all ministers pass through here and vote on them. Why shouldn't this choice go through the National Assembly? In this way, such inaction will now be the political responsibility of the parties that are in parliament and not of the people who are elected to the CEM and depend entirely on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u15	Any lines to Mr. Ananiev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow Members, the considerations of colleagues before me have their reasons, but it is subject to discussion when the time comes to discuss the Law on Radio and Television in full. Yes, he certainly has imperfections. Undoubtedly, the matter there is partly settled with additives that have been made chaotically, even lacks systemicity in certain texts. What we are doing today is precisely in order to prevent this moment of crisis, as we are witnessing in other previous elections of directors of BNT and BNR. Such a crisis, I would remind you, had occurred in 2001. Such a crisis was later with the introduction of European standards and rules by the Council of Europe and the European Commission. These are facts I want to share so that you do not get the impression that the need to amend the Law on Radio and Television is not felt and is not understood. Today's amendment we make is necessary so that we can predict a conscious and good choice. I wouldn't want to go into a line from my colleague to put the bankruptcy of the Council for Electronic Media here. We have chosen it and thus delegated to the Radio and Television Act their powers and, of course, their legality and, where appropriate, their actions. So let us not now put their bankruptcy as an authority, but rather give a chance to make a meaningful and good choice. What we're doing right now is creating a buffer to enable them to work well. Perhaps a month ago the election of Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio was held. You know the growing tensions there. In the same month, the CEM also took place with the filling of the three members, who had to be re-elected, we saw how much tension there was. Let us not allow this chaos to be repeated within the next election of the Director of the Bulgarian National Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u17	Any lines to Mrs. Sokolova? I won't. Mr. Rosen Petrov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! As a person who has spent some time dealing with television, I would like to tell you that these time limits, which are in the current Law on Radio and Television, related to the mandates of Director General of BNT or BNR, have always, instead of creating security, created chaos in the system of functioning of public media. So this is an extremely important amendment that will create security and calmness in public media. You know how hard it is to make the SEM, you know how hard the SEM makes elections. The fact that he was thus elected Director of BNR is practically an exception to the Bulgarian practice. Therefore, we should thank the new management of the CEM. Finally, I want to share a personal impression. However, all political forces were represented in our Commission. They had the opportunity to express their views on the amendment in question and everyone supported it. In other words, it might be appropriate if someone had any obstructions, to share them with the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u19	Any lines to Mr. Petrov? I won't. Any other MPs willing to take part in the debate? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know if there's a legal gap in the Law on Radio and Television on this occasion. I am not convinced that colleagues from the Committee on Culture and Media have the necessary legal capacity to assess whether such a gap exists, perhaps even have it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u21	Not every doubt should be spoken out loud, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u22	And I can express them, and I have that right. So let's not give each other lines and dots, dear Madame Chairman. However, there are some interesting facts that we should mention. I ask: what is happening in the Financial Supervision Commission, in which there are members whose term has expired for more than two years? Does she cease to exist? Do these members cease to perform their functions and duties, or are they still performing them today? The texts are absolutely similar there. I agree, for example, with what my colleague Yanaki Stoilov said, that in this way the question actually arises: is there really a need for a mandate after introducing such an amendment that can make this term an unlimited and eternal life? Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, in order to prevent this from happening, I am proposing an editorial supplement of the text to be completed after the point and quotes of the General Directors, with no more than three months. That is to say, this term will first oblige the National Assembly to require that this procedure be carried out by choice. And secondly, there will be no opportunity for a lifetime term for anyone without having anything personal to the Director of BNR or BNT. I think this is the right approach to create a balance in the proposed text if there is such a legal gap. And to be calm, I am not convinced either, and I also do not have this competence to determine whether there is such a legal gap that someone is not offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replices, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, I take the floor to support your proposal. I will also ask my colleagues to take into account your arguments, and they are quite substantial, I would say. Firstly, with the lack of time, we say, in fact, that the CEM is untenable or unable to hold, under the current Law, the competition for a new Director-General. However, I think that the composition of the CEM, during the election of the Director General of the Bulgarian National Radio, proved that it can do its job very professionally. In fact, through this proposal, we are making the mandates of the Directors-General timeless and this is an actual, perhaps sustainable practice of this National Assembly, which I think is not good in terms of making the relevant regulatory authorities professionally do their job. My line is more in support, I say again, of what you offer the term. Putting on this border will show that the CEM can do its job professionally without any need... Either way, it will be a framework that will motivate the CEM to make the competition professional and in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u25	Second line? Will you use the hole, Mr. Bayraktarov? No. Any other colleagues willing to take part in the debate? Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we didn't wake up this morning. We had to show this activity at the first reading in order to be able to look at a second reading, that is, not to accept in one session the amendment in the Law and to make the corresponding editorial proposals between first and second readings. Nevertheless, I take the floor to support Bajraktarov's proposal, precisely because if there is no time limit, it would allow the temporary government to run forever, so to call it. So I realize that there may be objections here whether this proposal is editorial or essentially, but I think it would be good for the National Assembly to really limit this inability of the regulatory authority to take a decision by a certain deadline. That three-month period would be very appropriate. I propose that we support this editorial proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Atanasov! And what happens when there is no choice within the three-month period or whatever the deadline is? Hey, this is the problem with the current text that it interrupts the mandate at some point, without taking into account whether the body it chooses can carry out, has or does not have such a pending procedure. Rather, if we are looking for such a commitment, it must be in a completely different place, not with regard to the mandate, but with regard to the authority, in order to say: This authority shall open and implement the procedure in question within such a time period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u29	Second line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u30	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member Kirilov, first of all, I am a little worried about this absolute unanimity with which this text has been adopted in the Commission, but I do not want to discuss what has happened there. I have not been involved in the meeting of this Commission. The question that you are raising should be discussed there when you are looking at this text. Provided that we adopted the Bill at first reading, there were no objections in the House and absolutely legitimately proposed, that is, it is possible to look at a second reading, we have no option now but to set a time limit within which the regulatory authority to organise and rule. If it's not organized and the regulatory authority doesn't rule, it's so much worse for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u31	The word for speech is Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is no doubt that this bill raises the principled question of the figure of mandate, of the legal figure of mandate. We have to admit that this figure is absolutely discredited as a practice in both directions, both in terms of amendments to the Bill as appropriate, which interrupt mandates, and by pleasing and convenient silence with inactivity of leaking mandates, which go on sometimes really unacceptable beyond those set out in the Law, that even in the Constitution deadlines. However, in connection with the proposal for a second reading version, about which some agreement is being formed, I would like to remind only my fellow Members who have written the proposal that the mandate itself sets a deadline. And once we set a new three-month deadline, we really don't have an answer to the question: what if due to the same circumstances and in the next three months we don't have a choice, what do we do? What's the end of it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u33	We're leaving the CEM.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u34	Well, end it now, if that's possible. To end now, if that's possible! The very idea of the Director-General staying in office until a competition is held is possible now. Or if it's not possible now, how will it be possible in three months? You don't have an answer to that question. Rather, we need to focus on such amendments to make it impossible to extend the mandates and to interrupt them as politically appropriate. Otherwise, honourable Members, with the editorial amendment in essence, we will extend the mandate of the Director-General by three months, we will make the exception a rule, and now, in this version of the Commission, at least there is a feeling of exclusivity of the situation. However, when you set a new deadline, you create the feeling of an extension of the mandate by three months. The proposal for editorial amendment should be considered very carefully. I think that instead of solving the problem, it can deepen and practically have the effect of extending the Director-General's mandate for three months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mestan, isn't it a worse precedent to turn this term into a lifeline? Is that something better? I will repeat my words from the statement, which seemed to have been supported by the statement of my colleague Danail Kirilov that there should have been legal competence here. Yes, someone has decided to make this proposal unprepared, and if I use your terminology to please someone, I can't be sure, but this three-month period is in case, I repeat, is in case, but here now the role of the SEM should be such that it doesn't come to this case. It's better to set a three-month deadline for this choice now than to make it a living. Otherwise, I agree with what my colleague Kirilov said that these changes had to be elsewhere. We are offered a text that we have little to change, or the other option to reject. He's no good to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u37	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mestan, I very much agree with the analysis you have done in terms of mandates. I think that's basically the case. In your speech, however, there was a hint of what was different about the Law on Radio and Television. So I take the liberty of asking myself: what is different about this Law? This is the only Law in which the general rule of the interval is not applied, i.e. when we do not have appointment and designation, in this period the so-called old manual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u39	Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, that is exactly the point of my speech. The law on radio and television was an exception to setting a deadline for the expiry of the term of office, after which the Director-General was no longer in office. If we leave all the other bodies to which the mandate applies, they continue to carry out their duties until the next legitimate choice. It is therefore better for this institution to enter into the common regime. If we create a new special regime, with another three months, it is much more correct to write: the management of the Director-General is three years and three months and not three years, because it will actually have this effect. With regard to whose responsibility it is that no choice has been made by 30 May, this is already a very controversial issue. Is this not our responsibility, the institutions that form the CEM?! Because of some or other political bargaining, we miss all the deadlines for holding these elections. We have a responsibility to the authorities that conduct the election of a Director-General not to be constituted within the relevant deadlines and to delay. It is better not to make our own mistakes with other mistakes, this time in legislation. The most correct solution is with regard to the figures of the Director-General of BNT and BNR to apply the general rule of law. They perform their functions until the election of new Director-General, but as we could not be in the mode of endless mandates, we could not be in the case of the judicial inspectors, the FSC, the KPC and others, the issue here is to organise the work of the institutions, and we could not be in Parliament to stop this vicious practice of unprincipled extension of mandates as a practice and not as a legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! All the statements made by this tribune clearly give the impression that we had little hasty decision to pass this Law at second reading today. There are substantial proposals, doubts, objections, including what Mr. Kirilov said that perhaps the right place for such restrictions in order not to receive unlimited mandates is the body CEM itself. In this regard, let us take the opportunity given to us by the Boards to postpone the discussions at second reading for a further stage, as quickly as possible, so that the Commission can come together so that it can examine once again the doubts and objections and adopt this Laws and these amendments when we have clarity that we are doing something better and not worse. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u43	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, we are currently in debate mode for a second vote. What can be postponed under our Rules of Procedure is only for the next sitting, but to continue the debate. We are not able to return to the Commission, as the Commission's meeting precedes the debate on a second vote in plenary. If you are making a motion to postpone the next sitting to examine the second vote on this bill, then I will put your procedure to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u44	That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u45	Okay. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's proposal to postpone the debate and vote at second reading. Vote 117 MPs: 34 against 54, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing the debate. Are there any other colleagues who wish to participate in them? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the addition made to Mr. Bayraktarov in paragraph only for a change in art. 66, para. 4, finally after the word "General Directors" instead of a point to set a comma and to add "not later than three months." We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 36, against 14, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Full Act supplementing the Law on Radio and Television with its name and Paragraph only for changes in art. 66, where a new para is created. Four, all by importer. I'm voting on the Import Bill. They voted 121 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 30. The law has been passed in a second vote. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: PROJECTS FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE PROJECT FOR THE INVESITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF A NEW TYPE OF PATROL GUARD AND FOR THE ACCEPTION OF THE PROJECT FOR THE INVESTIONAL DISCLOSURE Dear MPs, I recall that under the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 16, p. 7a provides that the National Assembly shall adopt by decision a programme and/or projects for investment costs for acquisition and/or modernisation of arms, equipment and equipment for the needs of the Armed Forces where the value of each of the projects exceeds 100 million. BGN, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has received draft decisions on these legal grounds. The National Assembly should vote on a decision on the government's proposal. The draft decisions are allocated to the Defence Committee, the Budget and Finance Committee. We have reports that we are about to hear. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u46	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, before the reports, I would like to make an admission procedure in the House of Gen. Konstantin Popov, Chief of Defence, Major General Rumen Radev, Commander of the Air Force, Major General Andrey Botsev, and Rear Admiral Mitko Petev, Commander of the Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u47	Colleagues, we are voting on the proposed admission of guests to this House. Vote 72 MPs: 68 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Valentin Radev will brief us on the report of the Airplane Defense Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe on the examination of the Project Decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft', No 602-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft', No 602-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. 13 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by: Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev, Deputy Defence Minister Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Defence Chief General Konstantin Popov, Air Force Commander Major General Rumen Radev, Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mitko Petev, Land Forces Commander Major General Andrey Botsev, National Representative Velizar Enchev and former Defence Minister Boyko Noev. Exhibition with the reasons for the project was presented by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. He pointed out that approval of the project is a strategic solution, which, given Bulgaria's belonging to collective protection within NATO, will solve the issue of interoperability with the allies and chronic problems with the maintenance of MiG-29 aircraft. The present MP Velizar Enchev agreed with the Minister of Defence on the need to acquire a new fighter plane, but he defended his opinion that this should happen at a later stage given the possibility that the resources of the old MiG-29 aircraft could be extended to 2030, which he said the Russian manufacturer would guarantee. In addition, the practice of countries such as Slovakia and Poland, which support and make maximum use of MiG-29 aircraft capabilities, such as the first country of Slovakia, has concluded a subscription support agreement for the next period until 2019. In the subsequent discussion the MPs Vladimir Toshev, Hristo Gadzhev, Atanas Zafirov, Plamen Manushev, Milen Mihov, Krasimir Karakachanov, Neno Vlaikov and Valentin Radev took part in the discussion. All, with the exception of the MP Atanas Zafirov, have defended the need to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft and the use of MiG 29 aircraft in the transitional period until the delivery, training and introduction of weapons of the new type of combat aircraft. It was pointed out that the country has been a member of NATO for 12 years and the modernization of the Bulgarian Air Force is extremely pressing. Postponement of modernisation once again, on financial or other grounds, will put the existence of the Armed Forces at risk as an independent type of armed force, with which the effects of state sovereignty will be irreversible. People's representative Atanas Zafirov said he was not convinced of the depletion of MiG-29 aircraft capabilities in the Bulgarian Army. According to him, the modernisation of this aircraft will enable the project to be financed for a new infantry war machine for Ground Forces, which are also the biggest contribution to collective protection, but unknown why Land Forces are underestimated and announced that they will vote abstention. The detailed and reasoned answers were given to the questions asked by the Chief of Defence and the Commander of the Air Force, who with military technical arguments defended the Project for the purchase of a new type of combat plane, with which Bulgaria will solve all the problems of joint operational actions with the Armed Forces of NATO member states, the protection of air sovereignty and the interaction and maintenance of the Land Forces and our naval fleet. After the final debates, the members of the Commission with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 abstention, decided that the project for investment expenditure for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft could be proposed for approval by the National Assembly. As a result of the vote, the Defence Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to adopt by decision the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft" No 602-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Read her the solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u50	Project! DECISION on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft' The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts Project for Investment Cost
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u51	Thank you. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft', No 602-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring a new type of combat plane', No 602-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. The document with the importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev "Deputy Minister of Defence." According to the Development Plan of the Armed Forces by 2020, adopted by Decree No 382 of the Council of Ministers by 2015 and the Programme for the Development of the Defence capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 for the maintenance and development of the defence capabilities of the Air Force is necessary for the implementation of an investment project "Acquiring of a new type of combat aircraft" which is Priority 1 for the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria (Air Force). The old aircraft park further hinders the introduction of important regulations and directives of the European Union and national plans and programmes for the implementation of key infrastructure, transport and communication projects in the Republic of Bulgaria On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly should give consent to the implementation of an investment cost. After presenting and discussing the draft decision, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I would like to ask you to read the next report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the acquisition of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Navy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol vessel for the Navy', No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Project for a Decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Accession of a multifunctional modular patrol vessel for the Navy', No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. The document with the importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev "Deputy Minister of Defence." According to the Defence Capacity Development Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020, adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 25 November 2015 (DV, No. 93 from 2015) and the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces by 2020, adopted by Decree No 382 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, for the maintenance and development of the defence capabilities of the Navy, the implementation of the investment project is necessary. It should be borne in mind that, according to the received responses to requests for information, the shipbuilding industry in the Republic of Bulgaria is of considerable interest and a full participation of it would lead to: less funds for purchase, provided that the project is implemented by a Bulgarian shipbuilding company; less funds for logistical support; easier logistics maintenance procedure; shorter time for emergency and planning repairs; job creation on the territory of the country; income from taxes and fees in the Republican budget and the acquisition of On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly should give consent to the implementation of an investment cost. Following the presentation and discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on the adoption of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a Multifunctional Modular Modular Patrol Ship for the Navy" No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Now the report of the main Commission on the Defence Committee on the Project for the Acquisition of a Multifunctional Modular Modular Patrol Ship of the Navy, in one with the Project for a Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. General, gentlemen of Admirals and Generals! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on the consideration of the Project for a Decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a Nogofunctioning Modular Modular Navy Patrol Ship, No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a Multifunctional Modular Modular Patrol Ship of the Navy', No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. 13 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev, Deputy Defence Minister Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Defence Chief General Konstantin Popov, Air Force Commander Major General Rumen Radev, Navy Commander Rear Admiral Mitko Petev, Land Army Commander Major General Andrey Botsev, National Representative Velizar Enchev and former Defence Minister Boyko Noev. The Minister of Defence presented the Project and the reasons for it, justifying the need to implement the Project in view of the status of the available warships, their capabilities for carrying out the tasks of maritime sovereignty and the important national and allied commitments in the Black Sea basin aquatory. In the discussion of the project the national representative Krasimir Karakachanov took over, who noted that the needs of the Land Forces of new fighting equipment are much greater than those of the Navy and expressed reservations about the appropriateness of spending such a significant financial resource. In line with the opinion expressed, the national representative Atanas Zafirov noted that now is not the time for realization of this project and with its delay funds can be released for other urgent things. People's representative Plamen Manushev categorically justified the appropriateness of the project, pointing out that its unrealization would lead to a collapse of the capabilities of the fleet, given the inability in any way to implement modernization of the current frigates. Statements were made by the Minister of Defence, the Commander of the Navy, the People's Representative Petar Slavov and the Vice-President of the Commission Valentin Radev, who argued that the need to implement the investment cost for the acquisition of the vessels for the Navy was protected. It was noted that only the timely implementation of this Project and the additional repair and equipment of available vessels can guarantee the performance of the tasks of the Navy. After the final debates, the members of the Commission with 10 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes in abstention, decided that the project for investment expenditure for the acquisition of a multifunctional modular Navy patrol ship could be proposed for approval by the National Assembly. As a result of the vote, the Defence Committee adopted the following: STATEMENT: Offers to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's work to adopt by decision the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a Multifunctional Modular Modular Patrol Ship of the Navy" No 602-03-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 April 2016. Vice-President of the Defence Committee Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. On behalf of the importer, I realized that afterwards during the debate, if necessary, the Minister and our guests in the Chamber will be able to take the floor. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. I remind you that the debates are together regarding the two proposals for investment costs. Your statements can be both for the acquisition of the multifunctional ship and for the new fighter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u58	Is the time doubled?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u59	No, no, it's a common point. Parliamentary groups have the time in principle for speaking at one point. We just have two draft decisions to vote on separately. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? The first request was the popular presentations of Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today we will make a decision that will extremely burden the Bulgarian budget, I would say fatally, with at least 2 billion. lv. For this reason, I propose that everyone from here who speaks after me who lobbys or, more precisely, advocates that new fighters should be bought and that two new patrol ships should be built to declare conflict of interest. Because during the Commission meeting, which I attended and, as has been said, I took the floor, a Member of the Party GERB said that I should declare a conflict of interest because I have defended the interests of a foreign arms concern. On the contrary, I do not lobby for the purchase of a new fighter plane, nor for the purchase of MiG-29, nor for the construction of patrol ships by a Bulgarian company. So I'm lobbying in a little while, I'm going to tell you what about staying the old resource both in the Navy and in the air force. I propose and I think it is moral that each of you who believes that we should acquire these two new patrol ships and squadron planes, declare a conflict of interest. About the purchase of a new fighter. Dear colleagues, which country affords the luxury of giving up a combat plane that has an operational resource for another 14 years? There are only two answers: either a very rich country that can afford this luxury, or a very corrupt country, as its officials believe that commissions can be taken from the acquisition of a new fighter. Commissions cannot be taken from the continuation of the resources of the current MiG-29 fighters, whose operational resource, as I said, is up to 2029. 14 more years. In fact, another 14-year period is the operational resource of the three frigates of the Bulgarian Navy. During the Commission meeting, I said and will repeat it again: how are we worse than Poland and Slovakia? Slovakia is a member of NATO, Poland is a NATO member of Slovakia, which has a contract to maintain MiG-29 with subscription services, and Poland, the same contract for the supply of engines and spare parts. In this context, the two countries benefit from the so-called European Commission Regulation No 512 "which allows for an exception to the sanctions of the European Union imposed on the Russian Federation. In this Regulation, if I have to translate it more easily, it sounds as follows: when it comes to the supply of spare parts and to the repair of military equipment, production by Russian corporations, the NATO Member States that possess such equipment may invoke Regulation No 512, to carry out such repairs and receive the necessary spare parts. Since Poland and Slovakia can afford this, I ask myself: why do we not afford it? And I immediately answer: because we want to be bigger Catholics than the Pope, but that is the simple answer. There's another answer to the commissions. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah. And to be even more convincing, I will tell you that Slovakia has allowed itself to address two US companies -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Finally, when I talk about aviation, I would like to say: on what logic did the government decide two months ago to buy back its plant "Avionams".. this is the former Repair Factory "Georgi Benkovski" in Plovdiv, after this plant is licensed, has all the documentation and can perform the repair of MiG-29? Two months ago, we bought this plant with solid financial resources, and now we will decide to give up MiG-29 planes, and more precisely, to buy a new squadron of planes that essentially land MiG-29, even though they will be supported, why did you take the Factory Avionams, you bought it from the state? Another question is: how was it privatized in a criminal way, and now you're giving up MiG-29? This is a very interesting question that I do not know if a meaningful answer can be given. Now I'm going to go to the other topic, the theme of the Navy. From now on, I bet Mr. Karakachanov spoke very well in the Defence Committee last week that he could put in a closed envelope the name of a Bulgarian oligarch and of a company that would definitely win this tender for the production of the two patrol ships. I can say that this is a prominent Bulgarian oligarch in the field of pharmaceuticals, which was able to deliberately purchase this plant in Varna and concluded three very good contracts last year with three very serious military concern from the Western World military industrial complex, which will basically equip these two patrol ships. But why buy two more patrol ships? I ask the same question when the three frigates still have a 15-year service period? It's true, with the NDSV government, these three frigates were purchased without armaments, without rockets, without navigation, without modern command consoles, and it's a complete corruption deal, but not to go back to it, it's already a fact. If we want to correct one mistake with a new mistake, it seems to me that on the state budget this will cost exactly 800 million. BGN, and we could only get away with 200 million. BGN if we invest in the refurbishing of these already acquired three frigates. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Same goes for the air force. Instead of giving about a billion, a billion and a half, two, and only at the first stage, for the air force, we can settle for three times less, because I just received one information from the.MIG Corporation that from 2006 to 2016. It is only about 14 million dollars that have been given in exactly ten years. lv. for the maintenance of MiG-29 aircraft. So in ten years, fellow Members, only 14 million have been given. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So if we allow ourselves now again for the Navy to repeat the exercise for the Bulgarian Air Force, the Bulgarian budget will ease by several billion without any serious financial motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u61	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. I've given you enough time and a half over time. I hope you haven't, figuratively speaking, eaten up the time of other colleagues of yours who are not members of parliamentary groups. - What's the line? Mr. Radev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Enchev, first of all, I will declare that I have no conflict of interest if you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u63	Closer microphones only.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u64	I declare that I have no conflict of interest. You're obviously an advocate of the old MiG-29 aircraft. So were we. I from this tribune can say, I suppose, all those involved in the subject would thank the Soviet Union back then that we had a MiG-29 modern plane back then. They know very well those who stand in the last ranks... and General Popov, and General Radev of them personally I have heard superlatives about this plane. Yes, but all this, Mr. Enchev, is in the past. And I ask myself, have you read this is my line, the whole project? It's written there, not to point out the pages, I think it's offensive, but it says why MiG-29 is morally outdated and can't be used right now. Then, yes, I said good words. Six, seven, nine are common reasons, according to NATO standards, for which this aircraft cannot be used today. Secondly, pay attention to the money. We're talking 1.6 billion if we keep going, as you said by 2030. For 40 years, we've been using MiG-29 to acquire a new type of battle plane for 1.5 billion, which means there's less money. Not to mention, I say again, about comparability of what one and modern multifunctional aircraft is, which we are trying to purchase. Mr. Enchev, I end up with this because it actually provokes me by listening to you. You talk about Slovakia there are experts there, you talk about Poland there are also experts there, and we turned to them for help. I ask myself, and I asked myself in the Commission, but then I led the Commission and I could not ask you: Who do you really believe in the experts of Russia, Slovakia, Poland and do not believe our own professional guides and experts who wrote this project? I, Mr. Enchev, trust them. It seems to me that you should trust our experts, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u65	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line is very short. I do not mind those who really speak to declare conflict of interest or interest, or whatever was formulated, but I appeal to declare belonging to the former State Security, to the KGB and related structures, because obviously, when you are campaigning for post-Soviet equipment or equipment from the time of the Soviet Union, there is no wonder that there is a link between what some or other people have taught at the schools of the KGB or State Security. This is also a type of conflict of interest and let it be declared.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Manushev, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u68	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, in what you said about the ships, there was very little truth. We talked about it a long time in the Defense Committee. I think we've been trying to give an answer. It's not true that we can get away with 200 million and have ships for the next 15 years. This project will enable the naval forces to have four or five warships, and in the documents adopted by this National Assembly, it says that we must have six warships to ensure the fulfilment of the tasks, to ensure the maritime sovereignty of Bulgaria and the Belgian frigates, which will be modernised, but not completely, because if the most modern weaponry with life is put in place for 30 years and the ships have 10 or 15, there is no way to spend that money, to put it in place and then the missiles and weapons to stay and not have ships. So the project is even extremely late. Such a project had a similar project in 2005, which was accepted for four corvettes, was made such an auction, it was won, but the contract was never signed from 2005 to 2009. Then the contract was removed because there was no such huge funds. Out of four ships for 700 million euros, it was 700 million euros for two ships. This late mistake, which we made, failed to fulfil the obligation to the Bulgarian Army and to Bulgarian aviation including to have warships, to have planes, must be corrected. This effort must be made. Even if it's hard, it has to be done. It is an investment for the next 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u69	Thank you, colleague Manushev. A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm not against the purchase of combat equipment and new ships and new planes for the air force. On the contrary, I think we need to buy a new fighting technique........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But not at the moment! Given that this technique has a resource use for another 14 years.............................. exactly another 15 years, not at this time, Mr Admiral, these two ships should be made, when it comes to patrol ships that are lower class than frigates. I don't know if you're the one I should be telling. And I say again: especially when I talk about the deal of the Navy, I am trying to quote our coalition partner Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, who made a wonderful statement in the Defence Committee, but you then, Admiral Manushev, did not object in the same way as you object to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u71	On the contrary, look at the record!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u72	Yeah, if I missed it, I apologize. I fully agree with Mr. Karakachanov's thesis, which he carried out because I say nothing new, I say no more than what Mr. Karakachanov said then. And I say again, where's 800 million? BGN, which we have to give for these two patrol ships in the lower class, where is 200 million. lv.? You claim that the numbers are completely different. I'm now addressing Mr. Radev. Mr. Radev, I believe in Polish and Slovak statistics, and I agree with you, but I believe more in the problems with the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian finances. I say again: we must refurbish the Navy and the Navy, but not at this time, not now and not with this money! Finally, again to put the question to which no one answered me: why two months ago the government took the express decision to buy back from the private worker, the factory "Avionams"... the former factory "Georgi Benkovski" in Plovdiv, which is the only one in Bulgaria and I do not know whether in the Balkans, if I am wrong, correct me, gentlemen generals, can repair MiG-29, as it has all the documentation and license for this. And once we buy this factory back and it becomes state property, we say that the MiG-29 planes will no longer need them and we let them finish up their operational resources while buying new fighting equipment, new squadron planes. Whether the old F-16s from Portugal, which will be extremely scandalous, whether the new And I would also like to conclude with another opinion: MiG-29 planes are quite enough to protect the Bulgarian air space. They will not go on missions abroad, not in Iraq, not in Afghanistan, not in Syria. So for the next 10 years at this stage, they are quite enough to protect the Bulgarian airspace and nothing more! And that's enough for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u73	Thank you. For the next speech Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Generals and Admirals! I have no conflict of interest, Mr. Enchev, unless you accept that it is a conflict of interest that I was a Minister of Defense. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The importance and attention given to the proposals for a solution is, in my opinion, determined by three key factors that also matter to our attitude. The first major factor is the importance of these projects for fighting ability, capacity, compatibility, the range of defense capabilities for the Bulgarian Army, which are acquired as a result of the implementation or not of these projects. The second major factor is the amount of public financial resources that should be set aside to implement the projects. And the third major factor is whether and how far we will be able to overcome the technological and technical backwardness that we are currently observing with regard to the weapons and fighting technique of the Bulgarian Army with the armies of our partners. In fact, a difference that, in my opinion, is already approaching the size of a gap. That is, we must take certain steps anyway. I am in a hurry to say right now that I will support the proposals and I support the proposals that have been made. I must point out that this is an attitude which is different from the position of my parliamentary group, which does not support the proposal, but my colleagues will state and have their arguments, the position of the parliamentary platform. I will support the proposals with understanding, first of all, that we are giving the green light today to start the talks on specifying the parameters of future contracts that must return to the National Assembly to be considered, whether approved or not by the Members of the National Assembly. Secondly, I support the proposal with the understanding that this is a late decision. So late that, together with the other necessary projects for re-arming and modernisation, it reaches one, let me not say colossal but respectable amount that exceeds 5 billion. lv. But that's what happens when there's no consistency, and there's no continuity. In this respect, I should point out, colleagues from GERB, that your previous four years of governance were a lost time. At the same time, let me add that we listened for four years to how contracts were planted, which Borisov and GERB paid as if if the proposals were now approved and the contracts were gone, there are no other governments after yours to pay these colossal amounts, which are concerned with the debts themselves. But my vision today is to acquire the new type of combat plane and, respectively, the patrol ships, the subject of today's proposals. And not even to the acquisition of the platforms themselves, but to the combat capabilities they create and develop for the Bulgarian army. And this, for its part, is part of the state policy in the area of defence and security and is the responsibility of everyone who is involved in the country's governance. We, in my opinion, need to answer not so much today if we need new planes and ships, but do we need new combat capabilities and operational capabilities and achieve a higher level of compatibility with our partners. My answer is yes. What specific capabilities and capabilities the new battle platforms carry is the subject of so many analyses, assessments and publications lately that I really do not find it necessary to dwell on this side of the projects. In addition to the specialists, there are probably many more people in this room who feel that they are experts in assessment of combat capabilities. But even if we don't talk about the capabilities of the new type of battleplane to strike, for example, land and marine targets, it is enough to mention the possibility of operating in any weather environment and at any time of the day. Or even if we don't mention the ships' ability to strike underwater and underwater coastal targets beyond the radar horizon, it's enough to mention opportunities for e-intelligence, the possibility of landing helicopters, the opportunities that there are in terms of search and rescue, not even so much in terms of combat capabilities. To this whole complex of project implementation issues, there is another issue which, in my opinion, can also be referred to the results with a plus sign, but, of course, in the case of skillfully And this is the possibility that the projects will not only be a cost, but also an instrument for investment and economic and technological benefits for Bulgaria and it will be directly and indirectly worth not less than the value of the projects that were mentioned at this time. This is also one direction in which we should look for the respective benefits for the country. Finally, a question that raises the most doubts, concerns and reservations: the price and payments on these projects. This is worth thinking about, because, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, there is a discrepancy between the forecasts of the percentage of defence spending.. 2% of the gross domestic product somewhere to 2025, the forecast budget of the Ministry of Defence according to the Ministry of Finance forecast as a ratio between personnel costs, on-going maintenance and capital expenditure, even if we forget this ratio of 60 lv. per year. If we add to them the necessary probably 100 "150 million capital costs for everything else, we make a sum of about 600 million. lv. only capital expenditure of the Ministry of Defence per year. The question is: if all the payments are saved, salaries, additional wages, insurance, ongoing maintenance of army personnel, including the cost of combat training and the current amount of exercises, without any change, this is approximately 1 billion. lv. I repeat: by 2021, without changing it 1 billion. lv. To them, if we add that 600 million. BGN, billion and 600 million. lv. make 2% of gross domestic product at least in 2017. There is no ambiguity here, there are no clear and clear answers and, I repeat once again: without any change in remuneration, additional remuneration and maintenance for the Ministry of Defence, which is simply impossible. That's just not gonna happen! Once again, I say: the answer to this question is missing in my opinion, and I have, to some extent, my doubts and my reservations that we will now give the green light to the start of the projects and, at the same time, we will not come again to the concrete realization and purchase of the new type of combat aircraft and, accordingly, to the construction of the new patrol ships. I hope I'm not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u76	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u77	Before that, I'm gonna ask for lines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u78	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Naydenov! As a matter of fact, if it wasn't for one small part of nagging about the various activities of the government, I would probably applaud you for your personal position and for your expert speech. As for the costs that we found in the first GERB government, they were worth more than half a billion, which had to be provided and by the end of 2012, we paid these costs, which really made it difficult to conduct defence policy during the first term. That was a huge problem. Indeed, we could always say that during the government Oresharski also had a delay, there was also an update of the budget, which was intended for the modernisation of airplanes, but was also not implemented. But here I would rather dwell on something that is very important, which you have said about the possibilities for industrial cooperation with ship manufacturers and aircraft manufacturers. It is very important to think seriously here, and very expert on how it could happen, because the examples of indirect offsets that were carried out in the transactions for the purchase of transport helicopters and aircraft proved that they did not have so much influence on economic development, not even to say that there are very drastic examples of the opposite. You are right, there should be such an offset, but very carefully consider how to be connected to the operation of the machines itself. If it's about airplanes, it's about the operation of airplanes, not, as there was an example of one of the previous contracts, a rose factory or a biomass factory related to the purchase of airplanes. Let it be connected to what we're really going to acquire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Naydenov, I am not surprised and I accept your support for the two projects in the sense that you are making a direct literal recognition of the right policy of the government and the Ministry of Defence, GERB and the ruling majority at the moment, related to these two projects and the policy in the security sector, I would summarize, because these are the largest funds allocated in 15 years or at least the intention to be separated. But two things I can't agree to. Firstly, you mentioned a late decision lost four years by the government during GERB's first term. I can't agree to that. Yeah, a late decision. What do you mean, late? You tried not to make it late when you started buying other things. It wasn't helicopters, transport planes, then we were sadly able to reduce them from 5 to 2, from 18 to 14, that is, the Panthers halfway by 3 less and so on due to the crisis. I have said many times that there is an apology condition for what you did then or a reason.. no one thought there would be such a crisis 2008. But so to say that time has been wasted... Let us recall that at the end of 2012, we were ready with the project and we had gone literally to negotiate the F-16 from Portugal. We didn't have enough political time. I'll ask you right away: you were then Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u81	Uh, you planes picked them out?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u82	Please don't enter into an irregular debate with the House, Mr. Radev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u83	Yeah, of course, that's when we were about to decide to take. But you came, and you spoke here, and you mentioned that word, and it also turned me on and I went out on the stands. Why didn't you continue this policy? We all know that we are not in the Warsaw Treaty anymore, and we are all Euro-Atlantic. Continue this path over there! You did the opposite! By the way, you're the one who signed a maintenance contract for MiG-29. Nothing bad. There is good news out there that we are still able to work with him at the moment, but it was a turn in the opposite direction and it is not good for you to say that. And one last thing, of course, who's going to pay that money? I'm very surprised to see you say that. The money we paid the first time was 576 million, this little over a billion at the end of 2012. We spent the entire term paying the old money. And now those who are eventually about to be spent will still be paid for by us. I am almost convinced that 5 years ahead will rule a centre-right government, not you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u84	Your time is up. Thanks for the line. [[Applause from GERB.]] Third line? [[BSP LB.]] Don't shout out of the hall, please! [[BSP LB.]] I've made enough remarks for him. As I understand it, you have a procedure in a matter of time. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gazhev and Mr. Radev, I accept your lines in the order of the usual political quarrels because I see nothing essential in what you have said. Mr. Gajev, I would agree with you on the offset that we must be very careful and not accidentally confirm and mention that they must be skillfully played. The fact is, of course, that each amount of offset went into the original price, that is to say, it was somewhat inflating the price at which the respective equipment was acquired, so let's say, armed and military equipment, which was the reason why it was eventually removed, somewhat forbidden. I'm talking about industrial cooperation. I am talking about the possibility of using, as is the case in any normal state, the re-arming and modernisation of the army as an instrument for economic growth and economic revival, including in areas where, for example, the construction or corresponding deployment of the respective battle platforms is assumed. And here I think it has great potential, great potential. So I mentioned less than the value of the two projects. Or in general, not less than the amount of re-arming and modernisation in general. Is this government policy support, Mr. Radev? No! This is a conscious necessity, a deep belief of mine, which I have always defended when I had the responsibility and, accordingly, the right to comment on the topics related to the reform of the Bulgarian Army. Just as it is my deep belief that there comes a time when the army shouldn't just take it, it should be given, to put it rudely. Because if there is, and this is my belief, a reformed system in Bulgaria, this is the system of defence and the Bulgarian army. However, for the most part of the time, this reform was mainly expressed in reducing personnel to arms and equipment, not in developing abilities that we can see today in the proposals that have been made. Whether we bought helicopters and spent unnecessary money, excuse me, but you are talking about the 2004 programme and the 2004 projects. Since 2004 on contracts that were concluded by a government before the government of the Triple Coalition! Just like you don't get tired of saying things that aren't true, and I won't get tired of explaining them to you. [[the President signals that time has run out]] that there were no contracts signed at the time of Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev. As far as choice is concerned, this is the result of military expertise and the proposals that were made at the time. And if that was wrong, I'm not commenting right now. But it's a fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u86	Please complete your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u87	Otherwise, I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any concerns about MiG-29, and I'm even happy to accept the words you said I made a contract. Yes, because you solved a problem within the framework of a framework agreement, which was inherited by you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u88	Thanks for the douche. Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to note to you that from the very beginning Mr. Angel Naydenov said that he would express an opinion other than the opinion of our parliamentary group and he came into the hypothesis of art. 55, para. 4 of the Rules, in which it is written that up to three statements of Members of Parliament are allowed, who want to express opinions other than that of the parliamentary group in which they are members. The speaking time of the MP is up to 3 minutes. That you have allowed more than 3 minutes is your problem, but do not punish our parliamentary group with this time. Therefore, I ask you to restore the group's time in its original form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u90	Mr. Ermenkov, I follow the rules strictly. Please, troubles of your parliamentary group do not transfer them to my field.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u91	Please read! [[Shows the Rules of Procedure of the President of the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u92	Officially Mr. Angel Naydenov is a member of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u93	He said from the beginning that he would speak an opinion other than that of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u94	It's a hypothesis that has nothing to do with the formal fact. Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u95	It's written in the Rules, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Please the ball is in your field. [[Relations and excitement in GERB.]] Next statement, Mr. Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The statement I have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u98	Colleagues, there is a list of the first at the time is first in law. I follow the requests as well as the mixing of parliamentary groups. Mr. Slavov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, the speech I am about to make is shared by my colleagues from the Reformation Block, so I hope that there will be no exclusion from our group, because I am afraid that in some other groups they may also resort to similar primos from our distant past. But now, basically, the debate. Indeed, expert speeches have been heard, and I will try to be as expert and less emotional as possible. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to one of the main issues of spending and the cost of the projects so proposed and what the state would have paid, anyway, by 2030, if it had to maintain obsolete equipment. What is interesting here is that the cost Bulgaria will make by 2030 to acquire new aircraft will be lower in practice than what we would have paid by 2030 if we had to rely entirely and only on Soviet MiG planes. Here the interesting moment is actually another one, as you can guess, and it is that after 2030 the MiG resources would be exhausted completely, that is to say they can no longer be used entirely, while acquiring the new weapons, we have a horizon of at least another 20 years, in which to use it and really provide these so needed defense capabilities for both the Air Force and the Bulgarian Army. If I have to illustrate it with a simple example, I imagine it goes down like this. It's like getting an old gigolo to put an engine on a Mercedes. But that's not gonna make a Mercedes, is it? The old gigula will remain an old gigula and when it is 30 years old, it begins to rot and at some point will fall apart. So let's really think about investing in new equipment, not in a senseless pouring of funds into an already morally and physically outdated post-Soviet weaponry, which at one point inevitably becomes obsolete, and then we still have to buy new equipment and we will have to give the same money once more. So to this, first of all, I pay attention as an argument. Secondly, I suppose you know that there are problems with the so-called "avionics" and the radio navigation of existing MiGs. For several years the European Commission has been seriously warning us that there may be problems, including with the suspension of EU funds, sanctioning under the Operational Programme "Transport" and so on. We have an obligation to release a radio frequency spectrum, and that hasn't happened so far. In other words, it is quite possible, at least from what I have read as opinions, that somewhere is within the joke, but it is not possible for the planes to hear the railway dispatcher on which track to stop and one train to hear the air traffic controller at which airport to land. These are obviously ridiculous things. They obviously have to change. The amounts to be given now for the replacement of radio navigation in the MiGs range from 100 million BGN and more. It's huge amounts of money that I think we can save by investing in new weapons. I cannot fail to mention something to which colleagues from GERB pointed out that in 2012 we were very close to implementing such an investment project for the Air Force, which was unfortunately not implemented. I have thought that if we had then succeeded in realizing the deal from an intergovernmental agreement to buy the so-called Portuguese fighters, we probably wouldn't be leading this debate. The problem would have been solved and we could have thought of the other types of armed forces, namely the Navy and the Land Forces, which also deserve attention. Colleagues, the debate must not concentrate solely on the Air Force and the multifunctional fighter. I suggest that we support the two draft decisions. To provide the necessary programmes providing resources for the Air Force and the Navy. Let's think about our land troops as well. They, unfortunately, rely again on post-Soviet heavily depreciated arms, which also needs replacement and, of course, additional funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Vladimir Toshev from the parliamentary group of GERB party.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, gentlemen Admirals, generals, officers! I would like to express my satisfaction with the strong professionalism and expertise in the vast majority of previous speeches. It was the same in the Defence Committee when we looked at the government's proposals to acquire new fighters and ships. I would also appeal to my colleagues: not to politicize the debate, but to seek to bring it back to the national security mermaid. This is about something extremely important that will prejudge the development of the armed forces, the army and, accordingly, strengthening our national security for decades to come. I would agree with my colleague Angel Naydenov because we are late. We're too late to debate this issue. I hope that today we will adopt a decision that will start the process. To those Members who are not in the subject, I would like to say that we are now launching the process, that is, we are not making a final decision. We are starting a procedure that will last for years and will cost the taxpayer a lot of money. Let's see what we're doing right now. I'm glad the three commanders of the armed forces are here. I express my extreme regret that we are only looking at two projects. 12 years ago, when we signed the NATO Treaty of Accession and became real partners in the North Atlantic Pact, and 8 years ago, when we entered the European Union, GERB did not exist. The procedures that we are starting now are actually predestined long before GERB exists on the political map of the state. I know colleagues from the Commission who will abstain or will vote against it, but in fact they have signed what we are now doing! Our NATO membership treaty contains more than 50 capabilities that the Bulgarian Army should have, and it should have had them years ago, and we only have a quarter of them. My regret is that, indeed, with the acquisition of new planes and ships, we will meet NATO's requirements for full and actual cooperation with the armed forces of the NATO States, but much of the capabilities that we need to possess and are in debt to the Land Forces, and for them we do not foresee money for the acquisition of new weapons, especially for infantry war machines. That's my pity. Otherwise, fairy tales of lobbying and conflict of interest are emptiness. If I have to declare anything, from this tribune here I will declare that I am a strong lobbyist for the national interests of Bulgaria and for the Bulgarian national security. If anyone can accuse me of anything, let them come here and say it! There are few people here in this room that we can say: yes, we have served with Soviet weapons. We trained in Soviet military schools and academies, but that was the time. However, now the time is different "The Warsaw Treaty and the Soviet Union are gone. He had a wonderful technique. I've served zenith rocket complexes that didn't have an analogue of their time, but that was one time! Let us live in the present and think about the future! What they're saying about MiG-29 is true, but it's true about past tense. Colleagues, several figures have been mentioned, which I would like to repeat to find out what this is about. If we continue to rely mainly on MiG-29, 2029 we will not have planes and we will have spent about a billion and 700 billion and 800 million. lv. to support something that will no longer be there. This one first. Secondly, it is absolutely untenable that they can carry out their tasks in a cooperative with NATO air force. I said it in the committee, and I'll say it here. I'll try to be a little popular so you can understand. In order to fly something in the air, it must be recognized from the ground and from others in the air around it, so that it is not considered an enemy object and be shot down, whether it be peaceful or wartime, whether it be a peaceful or a conflict zone. It's called getting to know one's own foreigner. I've studied this equipment in Russian, Soviet technology. I mean, we knew everything else, including the wavelength of radiation on the radar stations, but we didn't know anything about how and on what principle the equipment of its own-experience works the most secret thing. There's no way anyone can upload NATO equipment to Soviet combat equipment that will be repaired in Russian factories! There's no way this thing's gonna happen, understand it! That would mean that our MiGs would be separate combat units flying around for some reason in the air. Second, for the engines. A new Russian engine for MiG-29 has 500 chunky hours. There's about 350 hours of repairs. There's no NATO plane without predicting what it's gonna be like if it's American, French, European, which has less than 2,000. bloated engine hours. And the next thing: if we get over all the things I've said so far and we go flying in the air, we have to communicate with NATO colleagues somehow. The information systems of MiG-29 and NATO aircraft are completely incompatible and cannot become compatible. It is not possible to replace the apparatus block to remove one block, to put another and to start working. What we would like to do now is to enable the current government and the current leadership of the Ministry of Defence, based on the expert assessments and reports that have already been made, to launch this process. And one more thing about colleagues who are off topic and who do not remember the amendments that we voted here in the Forty First Assembly in the Defence and Armed Forces Act: when it comes time to sign contracts for a particular plane or for a particular ship, they will be voted again here in this room specifically. So we're starting the process now, and we're not allowing money. To get to the Chamber, these two investment proposals were discussed very carefully in the Council of Ministers. And if anyone can accuse Minister Goranov of anything, at the very least is that he gives easy money, or gives easy consent to spending money. Everything is agreed, everything is planned, and unlike previous projects these are provided in time and in the future. Let us fulfil our political commitments first to Bulgaria and to our national security, let us not think that it is more important to fill the refrigerator without closing the door of the apartment, because first we have to close the door and then think about what to fill the refrigerator with. And that makes it everyone at home. That's what I'm asking you to do now. Let us vote on this proposal. Please extend the time of our group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u102	Thank you. Please extend the time. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. The People's Representative Janko Yankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Chief of Defense, gentlemen Generals, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that the only interest in which it will be motivated is the interest in the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the first thing I would like to say, honourable Members, is that the political party's parliamentary group will support both proposals for a decision of the National Assembly unanimously. The reasons for this are as follows. Firstly, we have always declared more than once, and our political leadership more than once, that the DPS is a party that exclusively and seriously supports the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Bulgaria as a guarantor of the country's national security and not least as a guarantor of democracy in the country, which is linked to rights, lifestyle, quality of life, freedom and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, although we are opposition, we must say categorically that it is honoring the government at the moment.. such a financial resource for the modernization of the Bulgarian army has not been set aside so far. We have to be honest about this. And this financial resource, which is being set aside now, honourable Members, will not be spent perhaps within the mandate of a single government. Therefore, here, from this tribune, and our representatives, the commanders of the Armed Forces, and all the servicemen, and the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, I think, would like to hear and see a desire for continuity, a consensus in the end, at last, ever related to the national security and the future of the Republic of Bulgaria and the way of life of the Bulgarian citizens. Because, honourable Members, the high professionalism of the Bulgarian military, which has repeatedly been highly rated in NATO's system, cannot in any way be sufficient if it does not have the necessary equipment, if it does not have the necessary technique, high-tech, highly efficient. And we have now come to the point that sometimes the technique they use to guarantee the country's national security endangers their lives. There are two sides here, and I don't know why, for unexplained reasons, we only focus on the second side. The first country is: is this modernisation necessary and should we support it? And the second is how specifically to technically implement what planes to provide, who to deliver them? Colleagues, that's what this is talking about, a conflict of interest. We should actually announce here that we are not the biggest experts in the Republic of Bulgaria exactly what plane to be purchased, how to repair it and so on. Our expertise is another political one. Our responsibility is different. From this point of view, we must say that the modernisation, the purchase of aircraft for the Armed Forces, for example, for the Republic of Bulgaria, is an extreme necessity. It is not at all true, honourable Members, that the planes we have at the moment are sufficient. The erpolising is not even enough and sometimes extreme measures are taken to ensure the necessary potential for aircraft to ensure erpolising. So we had to pass such a joint airspace security law, if I'm not mistaken. It is clear that for the needs of the Republic of Bulgaria only about 30 pilots are needed for the erpolising, which means corresponding planes. From this point of view, we need to support the decision to purchase airplanes. What are those planes going to be, guys? We have extremely high professionals here. They will make the appropriate expertise, submit it to the National Assembly and we will decide. We don't have to predict certain things. But for us, it must be clear something extremely important "all these modernization solutions in the Bulgarian Army must ensure the effective and complete integration of the Bulgarian Armed Forces into the NATO system. At the moment, honourable Members, for example, our aircraft are using frequencies that should have been in the civilian sector long ago. There were cases filed this way. The locator systems of the MiGs, colleagues, have not been repaired since 1990 when imported. Only certain nodes of them are repaired. The relevant communication systems cannot provide us with full integration in joint action with our NATO partners. One of the main elements of our full integration into NATO is ensuring independence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, outside the NATO system. Therefore, from this point of view, we should not interfere in the expertise, in the professional element. There are extremely experienced people here. They'll tell us what to do. With regard to the Navy, it has repeatedly become clear on various occasions that the Black Sea can provide an extremely serious threat to Bulgaria in crisis situations, refugee flows, conflicts that are not far from our borders. Therefore, strengthening the Navy with multifunctional ships is an extremely important moment. We are a border of the European Union, honourable Members. So from this point of view, this issue is extremely important and we must support it. There's something we wanted to put seriously to the attention of Mr. Minister. Dear Minister, we support these decisions in the hope that a solution for modernisation of the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will soon come in here. This is an extremely important moment. Dear colleagues, all cargoes on the security of the Republic of Bulgaria in the dynamics of modern threats are being landed on the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Personally, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, former Chairman, I am aware of the state of consumables, technology and so on. I don't want to comment on them here, but only figuratively can I say, it's quite disturbing, honourable colleagues, and it shouldn't go on like this in any way. If we want to be fair, quality politicians, we must insist and I turn to the government in this direction indeed such a draft decision to enter for the Land Troops. This would be extremely responsible behavior by the Bulgarian Parliament. My fellow Members, in order not to be very vocal, I believe that the arguments for supporting this decision simply do not have an alternative. We must say them clearly and precisely, support the decision and thus fulfill our obligations as MPs with regard to the national security of the people who have chosen us and sent us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. The next speech is from the MP Ilian Todorov from the parliamentary group of the party Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, gentlemen generals! Mr. Minister, if you'd like to sit in the front, because you don't see yourself in the back, you're hiding a little bit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u106	Please concentrate on your speech. I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u107	We argue here if we need modernization, if we have an army at all, if we don't have one. After all, we must all agree that in order to have a strong army, you must have a strong economy. You have to have working military-industrial complex things that Bulgaria today, unfortunately, is missing. When we talk about an army, let's not fool ourselves, we don't have an army, we have a corps. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is a colonised country; colonised by foreign countries, which we today call our allies. Colonized by transnational companies and they all suck 28 billion each. lv. a year from our country. Then we all stand here and say, "Wait, we're talking about a project of about 5 billion." lv. Where do we get the money to modernise our so-called army? Well, why did you let these so-called allies export 28 billion a year? We could have had one of the strongest armies in all of Europe by now! I heard Gen. Radev, I heard both Mr. Toshev and Mr. Iankov from DPS all say that we were Euro-Atlantics. Sorry, don't put us in this mess. We are not Euro-Atakas. When you talk about your Euro-Atlantism and your allies from the United States, I will give you only a brief reference. In 2014 on their Military Aid Programme for their so-called "Member States" have spent 5.9 billion. The dollar. How much did these 5.9 billion give you? The dollar, Euro-Atlantics? You're allies, aren't you? How much did they give you? I'll tell you how much. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The dollar has given poor Israel one of the fastest growing economies in the world, and 1.3 billion. The dollar was given to Egypt. How much did they give Bulgaria? We're allies, aren't we? When we talk about Israel and Egypt, they are not part of NATO, and they are not part of the European Union. For ten years, the United States has been using our four military bases completely free of charge. Bulgaria has lost more than 2.5 billion. lv. You said, "They are Euro-Atlantic, we are allies." They should sit here. I ask: if they had paid 10 years, as Ataka insisted, 2.5 billion. BGN, would we now be wondering where to get the money for modernization, for our Air Force, for the Ground Forces, for the Navy? We wouldn't have wondered. We have brought in a Project from Ataka with which we have told you: let us break this country's disastrous Defence Cooperation Treaty, which, in addition to being able to bring us into war, but also 10 more years to give free to the richest state in the world four bases, absolutely without a penny, to use them. We're losing another 2.5 billion. A total of 5 billion for the entire 20-year period. When we talk about your Euro-Atlantic NATO allies, just to remind you that very soon the United States literally gave the country Egypt eight F-16 fighters. Why don't they give you a present? You're allies, aren't you? Why don't they give you allies, NATO members? [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Radev.]] Canada, another NATO member state, then offered to give Ukraine a country that had nothing to do with NATO, 20 F-18 fighters. We're allies. How much did they offer us to be given away? Zero. So, dear colleagues, we are not any allies. We are just their lackeys, unfortunately, because they govern Euro-Atlantics like you. Let us move on to this draft decision, which is now being proposed to us by the Minister of Defence, submitted to the Council of Ministers, respectively to the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly tell you, without wanting to offend anyone, an eighth grader would probably do better to write it. There are so many discrepancies here, so many lies I will introduce you to a very small part of them. We have also heard Mr. Radev, and I see in the opinions on the draft decision that MiG-29, which are currently available to the Bulgarian Air Force, were morally outdated. It says here that the capabilities of the new multi-purpose aircraft are twice as high as MiG-29's. I'm gonna keep lying. What does that statement say? Even in deep modernization, MiG-29 remains with significant technological constraints compared to modern multi-purpose fighters. Excuse me, who are these modern multi-purpose fighters? F-16, which was developed in the 1970s. The first model was made in 1978! Is that the modern fighter? I'm sorry, but MiG-29 was made in 1982, if I'm not mistaken a few years later by the modern F-16, the great fighter. Then what are you offering us? Let's give 1.5 billion. BGN to buy fighter aircraft. Okay, why did you bring us here? Why did you pretend to be more Americans than the Americans and break the MiG-29 Maintenance Treaty with the Russian state? For geopolitical reasons?! Yes, we're in NATO, but Poland is also in NATO. There are MiG-29 weapons in Poland. Romania is in NATO, Romania also has MiG-29 weapons. Why did you break the treaty? [[Relations from the National Representative Valentin Radev.]] Because you made a cowboy out of cowboys, that's why you did it. Now we're looking at the proposals. What kind of suggestions are you giving us? Let's buy the used F-16 from Holland. Used, used, but how used? I don't know. Then you give us an offer to buy EUR 1.5 billion from Germany. [[Reply.]] In your project it says..................................................I don't know what Italy you see. That is to say, for the period 2016 to 2021, to buy eight fighters from the European Union. Let me tell you, dear colleagues, that the price of a Eurolighter to date is 61.5 million. Euros. That is to say, in order to buy eight fighters from Germany, you need 500 million. euros, that is, a billion. Why do you want a billion and a half? The other 500 million will go where? For hot tubs, champagne and collaborators registered for prostitution at the DANS! Is that where the others are going? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u108	I'm asking you to humble your fantasies a little bit and get to the point. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u109	Mr. Chairman, I have fantasies about sitting in a hot tub.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u110	Yes, but you're still on the stand, and that's why I'm asking you to stay within normal limits.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u111	The main options for realization within the meaning of the most complete meeting of the requirements are the proposals of Sweden, Italy and Portugal. Which of you has shown me in this Project for a decision where there is a proposal from Italy, if anyone shows it to me, I am announcing a prize for a one-day holiday in Venice for the referendum to drop sanctions against Russia. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Show me where there is such a thing that you now want to vote it out! Where is there a proposal from Italy in this Decision Project? There's no such thing. Then we move on to the best option in my opinion -- personally -- Sweden -- for new aircraft -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Yeah, but a new one is worth 50 million. The dollar. Eight times 50 is 400 million. The dollar. Up to a billion and five hundred other money, where are they going? [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] To Varadero, where your Minister Lukarski and Obama were! In fact, we dragged a foot away from them, so that Lukarski would go and Obama would go! This is your moment, you're Euro-Atlantics! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Let's go that way. You can clearly see how with this Project, the only thing you're offering is to buy F-16 planes, and it's written in Italy or Portugal. I don't see it in Italy, but Portugal offers you this one. Let's stop now what F-16 is. We said a plane from the late '70s, super-modern, third generation, if I'm not mistaken. Americans even develop sixth-generation aircraft. F-35, if I'm not mistaken. The Russians are developing a fifth generation and so on, but we're going to take a third generation for a billion and a half. The price of one F-16 fighter, fellow colleagues, to date, is 18.8 million. U.S. dollar. Remember this number very well! Eight fighters equals 150 million. $265 million, or $265 million. lv. In the Ministry of Defence Project, the Defence Minister wants 1.5 billion. lv. by the Bulgarian taxpayer for something that actually costs 265 million. lv.! Now I ask you the question: where will the remaining billion and over 200 million leva sink? Training? For fuel? Where will this money go down?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u112	For hot tubs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u113	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u114	Enough with the hot tubs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u115	Because if the training is another 200 million, another billion somewhere disappears. Are they going to be on commissions? Are they going to be in the hot tub? I don't know. After that, when... You want us to vote today to buy these cans because these are cans, and I apologize for the 30-year-olds, the third, fourth, fifth use. Do you know what armaments are then? Do you know how much a rocket costs for this F-16? Separately, we're going to have to spend a huge resource to support them. Agree that a 30-year-old plane will need permanent repairs. Where? To your allies. But it's not free, like I just said my thesis. Come on, we'll pay again! Only one rocket-air-to-air-to-air-to-AGM-65 Maverick costs up to 300 thousand. The dollar. Air-to-air! Is that what you want to impose on the Bulgarian taxpayer? Colleagues, we at Ataka cannot support such insanity. A project is made in another way: you make a draft decision, the military leadership of the Ministry of Defence says:... such an airplane we want, this is the most optimal option for us in terms of opportunities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not how you do it! That's how they do it in the third grade. I'm sorry, we at Ataka will vote against. When you prepare, of course, professionally, then we can sit down and talk again. We're not saying we're against buying new planes. Don't get me wrong! We at Ataka have been saying for years that Bulgaria must have strong Air Force so that it does not come to the absurdity of Turkey to protect the Bulgarian airspace for which to pay. Yeah, we're about having a strong army, but not in this way, not in this opaque way that hundreds of billions disappear. We don't agree! Then why are there only projects for the Navy and for the Air Force and for the Land Forces? Aren't they people there? After all, now with this geopolitical environment and with this so-called refugee influx of you, we have called them these people, not to repeat myself, but in the end shouldn't we strengthen the abilities of the Land Forces, which are now at the border, at the Greek border, at the Turkish border, should stop this Islamic tsunami. Yeah, but that's where we're predicting, as we can see, zero leva! Colleagues, I'm asking you very much to get ready and we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u116	To the sea!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u117	Yeah, for the sea. Admiral Manushev reminded me. Unfortunately, here are the colleagues from the Reformation Bloc... Oh, yeah, I see you. Didn't you lie to the people for a hundred years that the state was a bad owner? Those companies are now going to arm patrol ships. One patrol ship is 400 million. BGN, cheap, so those companies that will deliver the weapons and offers received are state-owned. Thus, the state was not a bad owner, but in Spain, in France, in Finland and in other countries. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u118	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. A speech rich in lines. Are there any willing to replicate? I won't. We'll continue with the next speech. It is from the MP Krasimir Karakachanov, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. You have the floor, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, gentlemen Admirals and Generals! The Army theme is a serious issue. You have all heard what my position was in the Defence Committee, especially on the second draft. I want to assure you of one thing I am not a pacifist, quite the opposite. I believe that the Bulgarian army should be strong, capable, and not only to talk about it on St. George's Day and to think about what it was 100 or 103 years ago, during the Balkan and World War I. The truth is, however, that many years of our politicians, not to say almost all of them, explained that when we entered NATO, we would hardly need an army, because there would be someone to protect us, referring to the notorious article. 5. Even then I said that before art. 5 there are other members who require Bulgaria as a NATO member to have armed forces capable of defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state as it is in our Constitution. It is precisely because of this naive understanding of NATO membership that for years the Bulgarian army has been underfunded, chronically underfunded, cut off from the composition, cut and as an opportunity through the military service to prepare the young Bulgarian generations for the protection of the country. And another thing we have to say for years the Bulgarian army has been plundered. Grabbed through the so-called robbery and sales department in the Ministry, we all know what this is about. Sold out, the armed sale of a kilo of metal again with the naive feeling, maybe in some, that there is someone to protect us. So, after years of underfinancing and brutal treatment of the state of the Bulgarian army, today we are in the position to talk about its state in both aviation and fleet and in infantry and in any kind of army as insufficient to fulfil the military duties of our compatriots who serve in the army. This is the real situation! That's why I think instead of designing a piece... Because the truth is that the condition in aviation is super disturbing, but it's no less disturbing in both the fleet and the infantry. It's the truth! We didn't have any, and we couldn't get any planes because of one lobby or another's desire to collect some commissions. It's the truth! That's why right now our aviation is flying out in the open and on its oath, not flying on planes that are able to perform their duties as part of the Air Force. Yeah, it's tragic out there. The same is, to some extent, in other clans of troops. My personal opinion is that the main problem that no one deals with in the army is the state of personnel. Financing is also needed here. About 4,000 people, over 4,000 people, is an army failure, as they say. Four thousand states unoccupied! Is it a fact that officers leave, sergeants and soldiers leave? They leave for two reasons. The first and main reason is us politicians, because the army is viewed in pieces when the knife is in the bone. The army is seen as something they can do without, and the truth is, without an army, they can't. This is the first, purely psychological factor. The second is the unworthy payment of our servicemen. With these salaries, which we give to soldiers, sergeants and officers, in fact, first of all, we predestined as personnel soldiers in the Bulgarian Army to direct people who can't find another salary elsewhere, not people who go, I don't say there are those who go to the army, because here they give some social privileges, albeit insufficient, a paycheck that is better than you can in a small place without special education, to take. Just look at the trend in the last few months. A mass desire to leave to go to work in one of the units of the Military-Industrial Complex because there are three shifts and make good wages. Is it a fact, Minister? That's a problem, too. We're talking about new planes, we're talking about new tanks, but let's talk about the human factor. These planes are being driven by people, these ships will be run by sailors, the army is actually from living people. Again, bow to Bulgarian aviation. You saw at the St. George's Day parade there were interviews with former servicemen as well. People who serve in aviation because they love the Bulgarian Army have a sense of responsibility to their country. Specially, pilots can find extremely well-paid jobs outside the country in all kinds of private companies. But we can't look at the human factor as something that's just like that, with one snap of the fingers, with a magic wand we're going to change. This is our main problem, and this also means money for better pay, money for more social benefits. Except no one's talking about it. This is where we say, "There's no money!" We have entire divisions, honourable Members who are unable to perform their duties exactly because of the lack of personnel, unfilled staff in these units. And that's a fact. We're now falling for a straw for the public. Here we go. We'll buy new planes and build two ships. That doesn't solve the problem. It's a piece of work. I said it in the Commission, and I will say it in front of the entire National Assembly. I personally prefer to see all projects in all kinds of troops in the air, in the fleet, in the infantry, and to see what we do with the air defense, what we do with the special forces, if we take measures to increase the wages of our servicemen, so that the service can attract them and there is an influx, not to flee from there. It's all in one place. We need to assess what the financial possibilities of the budget are and which, prioritizing it, we need to get to the first plan. Not to run here, it is now proposed to build two ships, let us build them. I agree with the sailors. With the state of the fleet, that's not enough. But they have to agree that the infantry needs it, too. I don't separate them. For me, there are no favorite kind of troops. I've served in rocket troops, but I don't have my favorite kind of troops. The Bulgarian army is one. You can't have one hand tied up and think you can do your job with the other. For this reason, I objected to rushing the construction of the two patrol ships, arguing that if we repair both frigates, we can, in the first place, continue to fulfil our duty, by the way, to continue to carry out our duties. I understand the fleet needs new ships, but I'm thinking from a different perspective. Public secret is what is said, public secret is which firm is concerned that it will win the public procurement. Only this doubt should make us take our time and create similar ones, let us call them suggestions, become beliefs in people's minds. I think we should think about the needs of all the troops and then decide what is in our power. Again, let's not forget the human factor. Personally, I think we can think of a recovery in one form or another of the military service. That's money, too. We're talking about an army, but with this army staff, if God forbid, we have no way of fulfilling our constitutional obligation. Because the opponent, who could possibly cause us problems, has ten times, not to say twenty times more armed forces and opportunities than we do. We don't have a reserve. It's funny the situation in reserve. We do not have young people prepared to be mobilized and to carry out their duties if necessary. Nobody thinks in that direction seriously. This is a complex of problems that you need to talk about directly and think about in a complex way. Colleague Manushev at the Commission may have misunderstood me and perhaps he was angry at me for speaking about the construction of these two ships. I say it publicly here is not the issue next to the two ships. The question is the complex view of the state of our army and the opportunities we have as a country. We need to make a very good account of what we can do at this stage, what we can postpone. This means, honourable Members, Mr. Minister and gentlemen Generals, that we all have before us the needs of the entire army, not to divide things into pieces, not to solve matters in part. What is said about these planes does not solve the issues of Bulgarian aviation. It's a partial patching up of the situation. What is said about these two ships, and it does not solve the questions of the Bulgarian Navy. Except I don't hear a conversation about the infantry. There's a new war machine that needs it. And why not mention that there was an offer to build such an enterprise in Bulgaria, from a foreign company and from us to produce. We have no vision for the future. My deep feeling, I hope, is that we're working on a piece, clogging holes, not thinking about whether in time these costs that we're going to do without thinking will solve our problems. We have a certain volume of possibilities. We don't have unlimited opportunities. That's why I think it should be looked at in a complex way. Personally, I believe that the main thing to ignore is the human factor in the army. Because to prepare a Bulgarian officer, the question is not to finish military school and after one or two years of service to leave because the service offers him neither opportunities for development nor normal conditions nor normal pay. The question is, how do you create an officer's corps, keep it, develop it properly? By recruiting soldiers, what kind of people do we collect? There were events I attended in the country. Sorry, but one of them marches with the left, the other with the right foot, and they talk inseparably in Bulgarian. Unfortunately, this is the situation in some places. But with the salary given for a soldier, who are we going to attract?! One part goes out of naked patriotism, but how long with naked patriotism? How long are we going to drive the army of muscle, how long are we going to keep them in this humiliating position?! And when we hand them the straw that we can spend some money, they grab hold of straws. They're not guilty because they think they might not get that chance tomorrow. Only it's the politicians who don't think strategically, they don't think about the problems of the army, but they make a day pass, another day come, and we can get away with this thing, which is why the army exists. Here is the fundamental problem that we need to think about. For this reason, I propose that we continue this debate in this direction in this House, not to talk about who is for NATO, who is against NATO, who was the first Nattic. Here, some of us have become guarantors of our NATO membership. Let's leave these jokes for election campaigns, but when we talk about the Bulgarian Army, let's talk seriously, responsible and think about the future of the Bulgarian Army in perspective, not at the moment. I call on you to have a serious debate on this matter. I've given my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u120	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? I won't. Now we're going to cut the debate on the bill. I'm calling a break till 12:00 a.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u121	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. We are in speaking mode on investment costs projects to acquire a multifunctional modular patrol ship and acquire a new type of combat plane. The next entry for speech is the national representative Mr. Zafirov of the Parliamentary Group of Coalition for Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u122	Mr. Chairman, BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u123	The BSP left Bulgaria. It's about time I learned it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u124	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I'd like to ask you to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u125	It's extended proportionately to everyone, so you're in this mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, absent Minister Nenchev, honourable colleagues, gentlemen Generals and Admirals! I have always wondered how this government manages to sell illusions and to do so in a way that is able to fool and see everything in the years of transition citizens of the country. Today the National Assembly is about to sell another illusion that poor and robbed Bulgaria is able to buy squadron planes and build warships for billions. We are prepared on behalf of the sovereign to give another indulgence to a political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, which, after the inevitable failure of this yet another adventure, will be conveniently covered under the wing of collective irresponsibility. How else, apart from irresponsibility, could I determine the intention of its going-away management to give 2.5 billion for the purchase of second-hand aircraft instead of repairing and upgrading our own MiGs capable of carrying a military service by 2025 and the difference in resources to direct other vital sectors such as health, education and social affairs?! When from this tribune, I regret that there is no colleague from the DPS, we are talking about unity around national priorities, it is also good to look at the sectors I have listed. How are you going to get the money when you know perfectly well that only with piercing tales about smuggling and fictional growth won't work? Or do you enjoy taking credit that others will return?! There is something very fishy about the way you rushed to implement these projects and to load the next government with an enormous burden that could bring down the country's finances. Who will pay the bill, Mr. Nenchev? You look like an optimist who, without a dime in his pocket, enters an expensive restaurant and orders a plate after a plate of clams, hoping in some of them to find the pearl with which to pay the bill. [[(Radio, shout.) Claps by BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u127	Thank you for your beautiful language.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u128	Who gives you the right to sell us a ship-building project today, but not a word about the sad state of the land forces and the screaming need for funds for them?! Or do you think that every time I ask you this question, you will answer me: it will happen any minute. Perhaps we should look elsewhere for the reason for this haste, colleagues are approaching elections, someone will have to help. I expect the Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov to tell us which company should win this order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u129	I'm sorry, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u130	If there is any serious information, please refer the prosecution to this prepared scheme. Enough with the hypocritical concern and the apocalypticism. Did you find out today what hal is the Bulgarian Army and, in particular, the Air and Naval Forces? Thank God that at least you can't blame me for this condition. Politics, gentlemen, is a conversation about the future, not the past. In the last seven years, you've ruled six. We could already have the first new planes if you really had that desire. Or do you think that by throwing numbers and forensics at us, you'll run away from responsibility? For half a year, I have been listening to something that couldn't happen, and it couldn't modernize the Belgian frigates, it couldn't modernize Russian planes, it couldn't buy anything other than American weapons, it couldn't save any money from the stakes and so on. However, I have other estimates that show the opposite. Except no one's telling us where those billions are coming from anyway. In fact, it's a bit shy, half a line of payment, colleagues, with a government loan. How did you perfect yourself in this matter?! The form is indicated: a loan with a state guarantee. Is there anything left that you haven't pawned already? There will be a huge budget load of around BGN 600 million per year targeted capital expenditure only for the Air and Naval Forces to maintain impact aviation and multifunctional ships, which the government has no solution to how they will be covered. The risk of these two projects is mainly based on the fact that the maximum possible suspension of credit payments is not offered for ten to fifteen years, such as the practice of the world, but is subject to a maximum budget within 5 years, providing for other additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Defence for example by about 150 million a year to cover the new increases for the wages of the servicemen. If amendments to the Armed Forces Act are adopted, additional budget loads are expected with a higher price of about 30. 40% of the garments that have been adopted and a public contract has already been announced for them. These social costs cannot be denied because the detention of the increase in wages, which has been going on for five years, is the main reason for the non-completion of staff in the formations and the average salary of the main staff, the soldier's and sergeant's, is falling far behind the average wage for the country. Should a former minister write me an open letter, another former minister of this tribune, today, and I tell you that with just one delay in the construction of ships and modernization of frigates, for which, by the way, 90 million are planned anyway. BGN can be saved nearly half a billion to give, for example, men and women in uniform, who today work for miserable wages. If you keep this trend of incompetence and leave servicemen, in time, Mr. Nenchev, and spaceships to buy them, there will be no one to manage them. One more thing, I don't know why some colleagues are always talking about buying 16 planes for a billion and a half. I see Minister Noev made such a mistake in his open letter. Nothing like that, the amount, my colleagues, is $2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, distributed in two periods: 2016 8 aircraft for a billion and a half and 2022. The other eight, for the estimated one billion and one hundred million by, notice, it is indicated that the value of this stage depends on many variable factors and can hardly be determined. For an idea of where the money would come from, not to mention it at all. The risk of 2020 staying with the first eight planes is completely real. Once again, this is, provided we have 15 fully fit to fly by 2029 MiG-29. I regret that from this tribune there is no way in the little parliamentary time we have to go into the details of our proposed projects, but I would like to assure you that BSP fully supports the fair expectations of society and, in particular, the Bulgarian servicemen for the construction of a modern and combatable army. We are aware that this requires rapid and urgent reactions. However, I will not accept this being done at the expense of other no less destitute sectors and categories and to be done by politicians with dubious motivation, and ultimately to wager more problems than solutions. Our proposed approach today is exactly that, and we cannot support it. In conclusion, I would like to reassure the professional leadership and personnel of the army. Soon our country will have a new better governance, which will immediately address these problems, but honestly, with realism and not Munchausenian. Thank you. [[(Applause and lines from PG of BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u131	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zafirov, you have said things very well, but I think you have missed something very important. When we talk that the funds are not enough, we should have a prioritization even in the field of defence where the risks are, where are those thin places that can violate national security. I did not hear what the sea and air borders of Bulgaria are more risky than the land. Why is it that in all these decisions we make, nothing is said about land troops, even though they are now the backbone of our national security? Please, if you can answer me, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line, fellow Members? I won't. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger outside of group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u134	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, colleagues! You're asking a very correct question. He sounded a lot of the speakers before me, but I'm hardly the person to answer. The person who has to answer is standing right by me and his name is Minister Nenchev. What I can tell you, and I hope the Minister will not deny it that I myself have put this question twice on the blitzcontorl in the portfolio Commission and I always get an evasive answer.........................................and thank you................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u135	Thanks for the douche. For the next Miho Mihov of the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Defence, Mr. Chief of Defense, gentlemen Commander of the three types of Armed Forces, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Today's debate is, in my opinion, much more serious than I imagine, that until now, the views that I am listening to have been distorted or that we will be developing in the future. The task of our meeting today is for us to make the corresponding message and conviction from the starting point of the Ministry of Defence to our people, to the people who have chosen us, and to the people who pay taxes. Our message is to them why we accept or do not accept these two projects. The ABB Parliamentary Group and its political leadership strongly support both projects and with concern we expect the third Land Forces Project. Today, June 2nd, we are discussing an extremely important problem, in my opinion, and as a member of the Defence Committee, which is linked to the national security system and to the main pillar of defence. Our defense doesn't look good. All of us who have the expertise can say it frankly, and that is why I share it with you, and I hope that the people in uniform, the commanders and the chief of defense feel it best today. This is a case that we are looking at today, for the first time since the last 12 years, when we were accepted as a NATO member. Several plans were set out, several governments and the latter were adopted on 30 December last year for implementation. Today we are taking another step, according to the ABB and I think we are taking a step that has a strategic character to say long and historically not so much because of the date. Historically, because our armed forces are being rearmed in accordance with EU and NATO membership. This re-arming has been postponed for a decade, which has ultimately come to this point that we are questioning our allied obligations, which I will say a little later. Today's debate, we must acknowledge, and due to the presence of the former Minister of Defence here, has also been influenced by an open letter which is addressed to all of us, to the President of the National Assembly, with certain different views that I respect. To them and everywhere besides the bills, other than the estimates that we have heard from another former minister and other MPs, influence more important things. "Money is not the most important and they are not drawn out and paid by our people tomorrow. This is an upcoming task. It is a matter of negotiations, a question of treaties and a question of voting here in this Chamber. Our parliamentary group takes this decision to support projects from the belief that the state, its economic and social prosperity cannot be separated from military policy and from the military security of the state. Is there somewhere in the world an economically strong state that is not both militaryly strong and respectful? We want the Bulgarian Army to become respectful because direct investments at the end of the past decade were over 3 billion. Euros, but slowly and surely they are decreasing for this reason, because Bulgaria does not have a secure defence system, there is no reformed Ministry of Defence and police. In all cases, when we want a strong army, we think about the economy and about social prosperity, which will come automatically with this step. In the order of satisfaction, I will share that there is no need to discuss the motives of the government, the motives of the committees that have spoken positively, but this is in any case a good assessment that this year has finally come the time for the government to engage in economic and financial steps in terms of our defence system. I would not say that we should focus on the open letter or on the strong concerns that some MPs, with all due respect, are dealing with the large costs that are ahead. They were bigger, they were related to the presence of union formations and fighting equipment, but today what is present in the territory of Bulgaria does not guarantee its defence ability and as an external border of two alliances. What I share cannot somehow be ignored by the National Assembly. We are not just talking about the Black Sea Basin as an external border, about the problems that exist there and around its shores, we are not just talking about the Middle East, we are talking about the Balkans. Yesterday at the president's summit, something very important sounded from the President of Kosovo. He said the most fighters from our region in the Islamic State are from Kosovo. And you, and we all know that the Islamic State that the great powers are fighting against today is somehow assessed as not so much that tomorrow it will be destroyed, but by the fear that it will be limited and localized somewhere not to spread to other regions, including ours. These things require a stronger Bulgarian army and more capable because it performs tasks in a complex, as the fight is common military and it does not rely only on certain types of troops or on certain systems and platforms for war. It takes respect and I very much respect and welcome at last this courage to address the problems of the three armed forces of the Bulgarian Army. We must not hide, and here it sounded what I share that the technical condition of the Bulgarian army is critical and even we, when conducting a drill, bring out several battle units that mark tens or hundreds of them. The report we were discussing here made it clear that many of the teachings were paid not from our pocket, but from the others who were partners in the teaching, for which we often turn with critical notes, but in the end they built and maintained the fighting ability of certain of our formations. In a sense of security in peaceful days, I would say that not only teachings are a problem. When pilots, sailors and marines fly, sail, or move with faulty fighting techniques, they risk their lives, and this strongly disincentives them not only is it not modern, but also the life-threatening technique on which they conduct a drill and on which they carry the combat duty. Here we are obliged to tell the Bulgarian people that these are our sons and daughters and we must protect them because they are expensive for education. What about military education? How are we going to cook the students and officers in our military schools when we don't know there's going to be a new fighting technique tomorrow from the ally? What kind of lectures should we give them? Let's talk about the attack of the knife. The military education system requires us and our people to say what we will arm ourselves with not tomorrow, but for 10, 15, 20 years ahead when we prepare the footage for this. In this sense, I would also like to share the mature need in the Ministry of Defense, to say that a MiG-29 aircraft must be maintained. A month or two ago, when we discussed here the Polish and other options, we said: "End, we break up with Russia, with military technical, political and any cooperation. They finally matured that there must be a parallel method. MiG-29 should be used in parallel. And the more views of the Minister of Defense and Foreign Affairs are anti-Russian, the faster we have to buy the new technique. I am not saying this because this is also about political responsibility. The plane must be maintained, paid. More will be paid if the connection to the manufacturer is broken through re-export, but the argument is that this requires buying the new aircraft. The plane is the iceberg of the problem in the army because it comes directly to sovereignty, which is very sensitive to us. With several contracts, we gave up part of our sovereignty, but when the Union forces take over the air defense and security of Bulgaria, then our national feeling will speak differently. That is why we support these projects and in this genetic sense that I have, anyway, that these days and months we are deciding something very important for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. Finally, to share something that we often point out as great pride. The Bulgarian Army, the Ministry of Defence, certified many formations regarding our duties with the allies. But how do you verify them? With the same technique, or once and twice available for six or seven battalions, with the understanding and the thought secretly that we will not have to activate the six or ten formations, as the technique will not be enough for the others. This condition many people do not know and hide it. But who's to blame for this? At least the military. We are guilty of this, the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence and all our statehood, which today makes another decision to comple troops and they actually meet their obligations, as last September NATO in our bilateral talks said that Bulgaria is a consumer and not a security generator. Well, how are you gonna wait to trigger art. 5 when for art. 3 you do nothing, you do not conduct consultations under art. 4 of the Washington Treaty? In conclusion, I would say that apart from the plane, the Navy does not solve the problems of day to day with the powerful and larger ships such as the frigates. They are for other destinations, for other more serious tasks. Our daily problems in the Black Sea, both for the fleet and for aviation, require more mobile and faster ships of the type Corvettes and those for which we are having a conversation today, not only that they will be produced in Bulgaria, we also support them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I conclude with the strong concern that we are expecting the project of the Land Forces, which have the greatest contribution to the collective defence system and solve the most tasks on the second mission of the Bulgarian army. [[The President gives a signal that time has run out.]] Dear Members of Parliament, I hope that today's vote will speed up the delay of 12 years. In any case, we must thicken it, but not overload our budget and our taxpayer, think about sovereignty with this decision and, most importantly, do not lose any next generation of troops that disappear due to the fact that they have no fighting equipment. [[The President gives a signal that time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u137	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u138	The motivation of the servicemen is based on the fact that they will have combat equipment. Thank you. [[Private applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u139	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants a line? People's representative Boris Stanimirov is next in line to request a statement from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen Generals and Admirals, honourable Members! I would like to declare from the stands that regarding the modernisation of the Armed Forces in the Reformation bloc there is no ruling and opposition. We will all support these two projects unanimously. Democrats for strong Bulgaria and MPs from the civil quota days ago made it clear that on several strategic projects in the field of foreign policy, defence and energy, we give our unreserved support to the current government not only but also we insist that it implement them fully and to the extent of irreversibleness. With this insistence, I stand before you today to declare our support. Furthermore, I am very pleasantly surprised by the level of today's debate...................................................................................there is no one to fight with today in this room. [[Ataka.]] In fact, I thank my fellow Members from "Attack" because if they were for "Attack," there would be something wrong with the project. But let's take a serious look. I am pleased with the shared opinion of experts in the field, of people with great experience both in political leadership and in the military sphere. But I am also pleased with the criticism of both projects. I believe that many reasonable things have been said that give clear signals to the public and to the Ministry's political leadership that these two projects are only a necessary minimum for the development of the Armed Forces; that we all look forward to the development of both the Land Forces and strategic thinking in terms of Armed Forces personnel; that there is a need for more development in the fleet, and not just those two ships that we are about to vote on. These criticisms must be taken into account and we must continue to exert pressure in this direction. Many arguments have been made about the serious budget that will be allocated next year for the modernization of the army. In the modern environment we live in, long ago investment in the army and the military budget is not a question of luxury and just national dignity. Security and army investment is a direct investment in a business environment and economic growth, because no one invests in countries that are not able to protect their own security and ensure a secure environment for their citizens for life and for business. So consider these costs as a direct investment in the country's economic development. The accounts are clear. Instead of giving 700 million to prolong the lives of three frigates by 10 or 15 years, we will give 800 million to acquire two new ships of 30 or 40 years. It's very clear. With regard to aviation, I would like to remind you of another debate that we had here, the debate on the joint air policy. Then there were very serious arguments whether it would be possible for foreign pilots to rule the Bulgarian sky. In order to perform the Bulgarian Air Force qualitatively the role of Air Polysing requires 24-hour duty on at least two planes. That means we have to have at least 30 certified pilots. In order for these people to have what they need, make it 3,000. hours, this means that they must have planes to fly and have the opportunity to fly frequently enough on them. That means a new squadron of 12 aircraft. I believe that the appropriateness of the political, long-term strategy in these projects is virtually undeniable. We didn't hear any serious arguments against them, which is good news. In fact, even on the left hand side today did not speak the spirit of Todor Zhivkov, although they have been communicating lately. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I will conclude by concluding that we will make today's decision, I am convinced that we will take it, not to fulfil our commitments at the meeting in Wales, and not to fulfil our commitment as an ally in NATO. We will take today's decision first of all because it is an investment in the security of Bulgarian citizens, and the security of Bulgarian citizens is our job as their MPs, in the first place. Therefore, on behalf of the Reformation Block, full support for these two projects and careful and persistent follow-up controls for their implementation. They do not need to remain some declared solutions, with which at the Warsaw meeting to take account that we have taken legislative steps, and they must become real planes on which real pilots fly as often as possible and have a safe sky and a safe sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Replices, honourable colleagues? I won't. National Representative Neno Vlaikov of the Parliamentary Group of GERB has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am very excited to stand on this stand today, as I am obliged to declare a conflict of interest with a 24-year-old mandate. I have spent 24 years in the Air Force. From this position, I would like to tell you that we are really late with the modernization of the army. We are late, but today we are exposed to an economic perspective for the development of the country and unlike other people, I believe that this economic perspective can continue over the next 10 years, which gives us the opportunity to adopt a solution for the modernization of the army and for such a serious investment in acquiring new combat capabilities. This is not just about Air Polysing, it is about acquiring combat capabilities for Bulgarian aviation, in this case our Black Sea Fleet. If we take this matter a little more seriously, it will become clear to you that in addition to fleet and aviation, there is a prospect of acquiring combat capabilities from our land troops as well. Such a third project on my information is being prepared and there is a chance that it will also enter and I hope very strongly that such a project we will see in this Chamber and for our Land Forces. Only in this way, by gaining combat capabilities from the various types of armed forces will we be able to achieve an effect of synergy in defence and in the defense capabilities of the country as a whole. Colleagues, I call you to vote for the two projects. That's what I do as a man of the military profession, as a man of whom it's clear what it's all about. It is not possible for the old fighting technique to upload even the best aviators, the best sailors, the best officers and soldiers of the Land Forces if the technique is old they will not be able to do their job and will not be able to achieve the objectives and tasks that stand before them. I would like to remind some of the negotiators that I did not hear anything substantial in the debate from some of the critics of the two projects. The essentials were purely political calls to the audience. There was a lot of publicity, a lot of talk about populist goals, about gaining popularity, I'd say. I'll just repeat a simple fact. The acquisition or maintenance of the old technique, maintenance of the old frigates, maintenance of the MiG-29 fighter planes will cost, again repeat, more expensive, more money than the acquisition of a new fighter plane. In this respect, the acquisition of a new battle plane, I would like to remind you that in this area we will also need a reorganization of our military education system. [[Applause from GERB.]] My colleagues here are clapping because they know I support this thesis. I believe it is necessary to carry out a reorganization inside the Military University. [[BSP LB.]] I call on you, colleagues, to vote for the two projects because I believe that they will increase the quality of the Bulgarian army. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vlaikov. - What's the line? Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vlaikov, I understand your emotion perfectly. My father was in the Air Force for 30 years, and he'd probably kill me if he found out that I would vote against a project that predicts new planes. However, what I expected to hear today was convincing answers in several directions. First of all, is this the most important thing for our army today, given that there is an incomplete composition, a wage freeze, demotivation, a lack of officers, a lack of servicemen is the most important thing?! I keep not hearing that answer. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Secondly, can we afford it? The Minister of Finance was supposed to be here today, because an annual cost of 500 million. BGN, colleagues, is an additional budget deficit of 0.8%. Can the state afford it, given that we will have such a budget deficit?! Is this the way to finance the purchase of a new equipment for the army through debts that are publicly guaranteed and therefore pass as spending in the budget? Thirdly, we are only talking about the cost of acquisition, and you all know that the cost of acquisition is not more than 20% of the real value for the life of this technique, because inside there is an arm that does not enter, there is human composition, equipment, repairs and all that over the years. Do you think it's the same as the helicopters?! We've seen what happened to the helicopters, we have the bitter experience. Did anyone learn from this thing?! Finally, the National Security Strategy states that there is an integrated approach between the various ministries. At the moment the Ministry of Interior has one communication technique, the Ministry of Defence with another communication technique and at the border they are not speaking to each other because they are not compatible! Where is the integrated approach here?! Where are the other ministries? I expected the Home Secretary to be here, to confirm that this is being done together, because tomorrow they will be back on the border together, especially our Navy, and they will still not be able to communicate. Finally, my great danger is the corruption charge of this Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u145	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u146	It brings my bitter feeling that you are actually preparing to buy your next election through the commissions that will be taken from here. Convince me that's not true. Then I will be most pleased to vote for these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Vlaikov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u148	Dear Mr. Kadiev, to your first question is this the most important, I will say that this is one of the most important things. We all know that the army is a political instrument, and aviation is the long hand of this political instrument. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I'm telling you it's not domestic politics, but the army is used in politics. We can't not be engaged! What's NATO? It's a political, military alliance, isn't it? We, as members of this military alliance, must meet his requirements. I therefore believe that aviation is one of the most important places where funds need to be put in order to modernise. Not just aviation, of course! I am a supporter of the integrated approach that you mentioned in order to obtain synergy. I mentioned the word "synergy." Maybe I didn't use it exactly right on the spot. Regarding the lack of officers and salaries. In the Military Commission, our representative Valentin Radev raised the question to the Ministry of Defence. I think we're working on that right now. The Minister will give a better answer to the question. With regard to financial security, both projects are agreed with the Minister and the Ministry of Finance. That is my information and I have the honor of sharing it here with you. In addition to the acquisition price, the contracts provide for the acquisition to be 50% of the price and 50% more. There will also be armaments and the necessary means for logistics that accompany the respective fighting equipment. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u149	Thanks for the douche bag, too. We continue with the speech of the MP Rosen Petrov from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. [[Noise and lines.]] There are four other MPs on the list. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Admirals and Generals, honourable Members! It's hard to talk after a man like General Mihov, who may have said everything about this problem, but I'll try to talk too. I declare to Mr. Nenchev that I have no conflict of interest. I once fired Kalashnikov more often, once with RPG Russian. When a country is poorly armed, the enemy is always standing at its gate, saying an ancient saying. As a result of our turbulent 26-year development with all its pros and cons, the Bulgarian army fell into a state of chronic underfinancing and was never in such a state. We need to look at this really, really! The debate here is not about, how can I say, MiG-ophili and MiG-ophobia. The debate is about the attitude of the National Assembly, the state and society towards the army, what message we will send today to the army, to its servicemen. What about the Air Force? Could the country that gave birth to people like Asen Yordanov and Dimitar Spisarevski continue to hold its air forces in such a state?! Soon we won't only have flying planes, we won't have fighter pilots! Every flight right now is heroic! We need to be aware of this. Every Bulgarian pilot who is currently taking off is a hero with the hours he has behind his back and with the technique he is flying! Today we have to ask ourselves whether we need an army at all. I think that is the question we are discussing today. Does Bulgaria need an army? Let's take a look at the neighbors, our allies or not allies. The Republic of Turkey "659 000." The Hellenic Republic " 90 000." If I go to list the planes, the tanks, the fleet, where are we going?! Let's ask ourselves why a country like Switzerland can put 600,000 people under the flags in 24 hours. Who threatens Switzerland's country of banks, watches and chocolate? Who wants to eat their chocolate? Maybe the Germans, the Italians, the Austrians? Who?! Why does Switzerland need such a strong army?! Because the army, especially in the Balkans, and all over the world has always been a pillar of statehood! Because without an army, there is no country! Let's talk about the fleet. What's the real situation? Well, as we have driven it, we will soon return to the books of birth knowledge from the time of Comrade Zhivkov, who was mentioned here, where it said that the proto-Bulgarians came on horses and the Slavs welcomed them on one tree. How can we not invest in the Navy, in the Navy?! What kind of marine state are we, for 1300 and a few years, without having a navy?! Soon we won't only have ships, soon we won't have military sailors if we keep doing this. And, of course, I would like to talk about the great absentee of this debate. In this state of the Land Forces, I'm afraid that in 3, 4, 5 years we won't have land troops, but we'll have infantry. Land troops consist of armadillo parts, army aircraft for maintenance, artillery, missile systems. Infantry! We return to the times of Yaroslav Veshin. It's true that we were the best at this, but the last attacks on a knife were during the Korean War. Is that where we're at?! During the Balkan War, such a motto rises in our society: now or never! I think today's message to the army is exactly like this: either today we will do it, or we can directly tell the army: Gentlemen officers, sergeants, servicemen, we want you to have ceremonial functions. We'll pick you up once on May 6th, you'll go to the parade, we won't have any planes. There will be an agricultural two-bedroom with two kites on the side, can sprinkle holy water on us for health. We'll only use the guards. And if that's dear to us, we can invite the Swiss guards from the Vatican to do the parade. I call on you today to support both proposals. They are proposals that send a clear message to our servicemen: You are valuable, you are important! The state wants to have an army! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB, BDZ, RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u151	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, honourable generals and Admirals, there were many calls to speak more professionally. I think we speak professionally enough in the Defence Committee, here is the place and my speech will be a little more political. Today is a good day for the Bulgarian Army and the Armed Forces to paraphrase. I've looked at the clock, we've been talking for four hours about the Armed Forces, about the Bulgarian Army. Here is the color of the command of the Bulgarian Army, headed by the Chief of Defense. That's good. Today we are talking about a lot of money that will be given in the direction of the Armed Forces. Today for the Navy, for the Air Force, tomorrow for the Land Office. As a responsible political force in its first government GERB, except that it paid the bill of that money over a billion, for which I said, we gave no good tone towards our new allies. And that needs to be recognized. We have to admit in a temporary crisis we have paid those huge sums. The second government has once again restored the focus of public attention on, I can say, and the security sector, but let me only talk about the Armed Forces and the Bulgarian Army. And the Minister of Finance, of course. Over 400 million were found only this year, some of them placed in the state budget, for the security sector, 160 million of which were only for the Armed Forces of the Bulgarian Army. The direction is correct. President Plevneliev, Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces, is a bright English-language rhetoric. The Prime Minister Mr. Borisov has changed the geopolitical situation, changed the management program and given money for a sector that is not one of the priorities under this programme of the government. Our Chairman of the Defence Committee.. Mr. Mihov, my colleagues, we all worked in this direction. In my opinion, consistently, with a Europolitical orientation and, of course, with responsibility for national interests. If I have to sum it up, I think it's a job in the right direction. However, this is not enough. The direction is right, I think we are doing good things, but we must be as sincere as possible, and finally in my speech, which will be short, I would like to highlight two things. The pizza, which this time is rich enough for the Armed Forces, is slightly poorly flavored with two spoons. The first one, the Armed Forces. We at GERB first pointed out the miss and several times insisted to be invited and put on the table this project, to enter the Council of Ministers and then to the National Assembly. We haven't made it yet. I hope that in the near future, other speakers before me have spoken about this. There is no emblematic Bulgarian actor here, but I understand that Mr. Danailov has not played either a sailor or a flyer, but he has performed many majors and captains of the Land Forces. I am joking, but I would like to stress the importance of which not only I and Mr. Karakachanov spoke for a long time, and other colleagues, including the opposition, for the importance of the Land Forces. It's a spoonful that doesn't make this pizza tasty enough. And the second, once again, I would like to stress, pointed out by GERB, these are the people in the defence. We asked that question. I thank all those who have spoken professionally in the Commission and have supported it from this platform. What happens to motivation in defense? It's a very important question. If with these two things we manage to taste the pizza in the near future, I think that the task of all of us in Parliament will be well solved and we can boast about it. Finally, allow me to call on all of you and those who have evasively spoken to us to do as in the Commission, almost unanimously, with one abstention to support these two projects under the eyes of the generals of our command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u153	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I can't see. The next statement is from Mr. Hristo Gajev. You have the floor, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen Generals and Admirals, Dear colleagues! First, let us remember that today is 2 June.. a day where we respect Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria. Eternal memory! And a good day to discuss the problems of the people who today care for the freedom and independence of our country. It is an honor to all who have spoken and who have been involved in the debates already throughout the day on the subject. What's really in front of us? Before us, it is not a question to choose which model of fighter it will be, which model of ship it will be. We have actually a very simple question to answer. Do we need the modernization of the army? Should we move on to new platforms? Do we need new fighters? Do we need new ships? And life and health, do we need new investments in land troops? And the second, which is part of the competences of the National Assembly, what is the financial framework? We're not so much experts as to be able to determine the technical details. By the way, that's the beauty of art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which allows us to debate on these issues and to have a broad public debate that has already taken place for more than a month, so that all positions can be clarified, which are for, who are against and from this point of view, to avoid the controversy that we have over the years on projects that have happened not so openly and not with as much transparency as we can debate at the moment, as we have done today about their appropriateness and how they have been implemented. The second thing that is very important is that such an approach allows for consensus in the National Assembly. Governments are coming and changing. Who will be ruling after four years no one knows, but the good thing is to reach consensus on the future of the army, so that no matter who is the next ruling officer I think that we will continue to deserve the support of society to have a continuity and continuity in the projects for the army and for the development of the army. Therefore, I would ask those who would vote against or abstain from thinking whether this is the right position. By the way, about the war plane project, I think we've been talking about it since 1999, which means it hasn't been the subject since yesterday. In fact, the realization of this project was very, very slow. But here we have to answer right now if we need to replace the mig-29 and Su-25 battle platform with modern Western multi-target fighters. That's the main thing we need to answer. And as it became clear in the Commission from the speeches of generals Popov and Radev, by the way, both MiG-29 pilots, a similar modernisation or rather migration of a platform is extremely pressing. At the very least, we are talking about changing the philosophy of the use of fighter aviation, as MiG-29 is a interceptor, and Su-25 is actually used to support land troops and the Navy. Being a interceptor, and in general the Soviet technology of the use of the fighters is more about intercepting the target immediately and landing immediately back to the MiGs, as with the Western and NATO systems, the aircraft is being maintained nonstop in the air so that it can land only for refueling and refueling, which would allow a much larger resource for our pilots, as well as the interrepairing resource of the engines, as mentioned, for example, MIG-29 is 350 hours, and on any of the other aircraft listed in the project, is an average of about 2000 hours, which is nearly six times more resources that our pilots will have for flying before engine repairs, and also as fuel costs things are not comparable. This will allow us, with the same resource that we are currently seizing as a glutton and for the maintenance of aircraft, to have a much greater result. And that's what we need to do within this process. One thing that has been mentioned many times today is the communication and navigation systems of MiG-29 on the one hand, are incompatible with NATO standards; secondly, as has been said since 1989, the navigation systems of aircraft have not been updated. Compared to all the stuff here, I'm not talking about an analysis that I've done or received by fax from a corporation, but about an analysis that was done by the Air Force, the combat capacity of modern multi-purpose fighters is much greater, regardless of the modernization of MiG-29, which should be about 1 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, which was said, given that we are currently preparing to spare a billion and a half for a new multi-purpose fighter. But here no one puts into the account what the maintenance and modernization of Su-25 would cost, so that we can cover all three missions and the maintenance of the Land and the Navy, and the erpolising operations, which would be without a problem to be carried out by a new multi-purpose fighter. The new fighter should not be merely an objective and for these funds to acquire only the platform, as has been said. The training of pilots, the storage of new equipment, as well as the acquisition of arms, new communication systems and, above all, the provision of the life cycle of the new platform must also be laid down in these funds and in this Project. We have already had the bad case of previous modernizations, of previous acquisitions, when the entire post-war period was not foreseen at all, which added to the defence budgets. Ideally, these funds, which we are currently voting on, must cover the opportunities to provide ourselves with the maintenance and repair of the following planes. This will ensure much greater independence for the Air Force, and it can also be seen as an optimal option for industrial cooperation, which we debated a little earlier. To create it in our country, whether in other repair plants, to have our own capacity to repair aircraft, which will allow development of our technology, not as I mentioned earlier the bad examples with offsets that we had over the years. The new fighter must also be compatible with NATO systems, to have proven its capabilities. Moreover, there should be an opportunity for joint training with our allies, who have the same technique so that we can fly not only us, but to train together with the other countries around us. Most of all, we should define our strategic partnership in the field of defence and high technology precisely so that we can implement this industrial transfer. Defence management must make a very important decision on how to optimize the acquisition process so that the price really is the realistic and possible one. To analyse the need for airplanes, the number for them, what funds are available so as not to jeopardize the overall modernization of the army and to be able to release the much needed means to modernize the Land Forces, which many voices have heard today. These are just some of the reasons why we need to take the step to modernize our fighter aircraft. I would say again that we are not currently deciding which model this will be. This will subsequently be further ratification, but the project is planned to take place on the basis of an agreement that we will be looking at, life and health, by the end of the year. My request is for all of us to support this project, to give both the fleet and aviation the opportunity to develop and ensure their future in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Replices, coworkers? I won't. According to the order of the requests follows Mr. Krasimir Yankov. [[Heckling]] After him is Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell, time has really progressed. First of all, I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with the debate that is taking place in this House. For several hours there is talk extremely professionally, without petty bickering. Speaking of defence, speaking of the Bulgarian army, of the state in which it is located, I think it is both the National Assembly and the governments in the last 25 years, so it should not be blamed for one government. Projects in this sector are always long-term, they cover several managements. I agree with most of the things that were said before me. I'll go with the ships in particular. The idea of building ships was from 1992, there was a National Shipbuilding Program. Then we had strengthened to give breath to the Bulgarian industry to build warships, but remained on a book. Really serious projects. In 2005, projects were also developed, a procedure was held, a four-corvette tender was won, extremely modern. And all that's left is a book. Now we're right at the moment when those things that were just on a book have to come true. Or we really do not start the program, but we give the green light to the Ministry of Defence and the military leadership of the Bulgarian Army to start this process. The new ships are extremely needed. We have talked about this a lot. The commander of the fleet convinces us to mine in all the parliamentary groups. I think this must happen. These ships have extremely many advantages. At the very least, they're more economical, they solve a much larger range of problems. And the Navy's tasks are dozens, not one. The state of the frigates, class "Villingen" and they are abused by the fact that they did not have anti-ship missiles and so on. That is what I told you in the Commission: ladies and gentlemen, anti-ship missiles were last used in 1980 in the Falkland War. Since then, ships have not been destroyed with anti-ship missiles. And the tasks since then in all world fleets have been tens, hundreds of them have been carried out by all fleets. The larger range of tasks are also carried out with these ships. With the modernization that will be done to them, they will continue to perform them on patrol and control of marine spaces, and against submarines, and dozens of them. So the frigates will continue to serve for at least ten years, at least. By building two ships, we will have at least five warships that will ensure national sovereignty and the performance of tasks in maritime spaces, our union duties, the contribution to international peace, the contribution to non-military crises in peacetime. Why do we have to do this? Because our Russian ships, our Soviet ships... The frigate indeed sails heroically, it was built in 1975, it still sails, it is true, the crew has maintained it, look how many years already. Those are the corvettes of a slightly newer warships, but they come out not only morally, physically, they are all obsolete. So this effort must be done, to start these projects. I hope we live long enough for these ships and for aviation to fly on new planes. I want to end by believing in our generals, believing in their expertise, in their morality and in everything that some of the speakers doubted about some corruption schemes and deals. I believe they will make the best choice and wish them a good wind and seven feet under the keel of both projects. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u157	Any lines to Mr. Manushev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. On behalf of the guests General Popov, you have the opportunity to take an attitude if you wish, after which the word wants the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u158	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Generals and Admirals! The word that comes into my mind here, from this tribune, today, on 2 June, is the word we started. We started the revival and modernization of the Bulgarian army. Thank you for the fact that the political elite for four hours today discusses the Bulgarian Army and the Armed Forces. This is an extremely important message. This is a message to the Armed Forces, to the people of the Bulgarian Army, this is a message to the Bulgarian people and to the institutions. Yeah, there's something we can do in the future. There are further steps. I hope that soon the Land Forces Project will be here, have the same debate and hopefully take care of the people in uniform. They deserve this. Thank you. Good luck to you. [[Loud applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u159	Thank you, General. Popov. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u160	Honourable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Chief of Defense, Honourable Generals, Admirals! Today the National Assembly is about to rule on the projects presented by the government on investment costs related to the modernisation of the Navy and the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. The moment, I would say, is historic because your decision will ensure the development of the military capabilities of the country's Armed Forces for at least the next 30 years. The security environment in Southeast Europe is severely deteriorated. Bulgaria cannot seem insecure. Our country must be able to reflect any threats. The strong Bulgarian army has always been a support of the Bulgarian statehood and an integral part of the Bulgarian identity. Bulgaria must emit security and stability. The delay in modernization processes in combat capabilities in the army has been going on for over 25 years and we have reached a situation that requires urgent action. The Bulgarian army is gasping for old Soviet weapons and needs a fresh start. We still have no interoperability with modern technology and the weapons of our NATO allies. There were opinions that modernization would be at the expense of the care and remuneration of the personnel. And today I stand behind the thousands of professionals in our army and assure them that we will do our best to improve their status, working conditions and motivation for professional development. In this spirit are also our proposals for amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which we have prepared, protected and will continue to protect the social benefits of the servicemen, such as the amount of leave, compensation for the number of salaries in the discharge of military service, payment of compensation amounts and accommodation expenses. A new technique is needed. It will have a huge motivating effect on personnel. People in defense best know that the condition of the old fighting technique is such that it is sometimes dangerous to their health. That is why I most sincerely hope that soon the project for a new Land Forces war machine will also receive the government's support to build the third pillar of the armed forces as well as the Air and Naval Forces. For me, defence and security are national priorities that require maximum political consensus. Therefore, I have also had preliminary consultations with almost all the parliamentary groups and I am grateful to all those who have expressed support. I am convinced that you, the MPs, will take a responsible look at the future of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The funds invested, modernization, will come back many times. The acquisition of new defense capabilities is not only a burden of the Bulgarian taxpayers. We will make maximum efforts to include the Bulgarian defence industry in the implementation of the projects. This will not only create new jobs, but will also stimulate the preservation and acquisition of technological and production capacities. I am convinced that the adoption of projects for investment expenditure for the modernization of the army will be a great success for the Bulgarian army, not my personal success, and not only the success of the government, but success for Bulgaria. With their implementation we will contribute to increasing the defence capabilities of the armed forces to fulfil their constitutional obligations, to guarantee the independence and territorial integrity of the country and to have predictability in relations with the allies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, the debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I recall the draft decision: "Project" DECISION on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft' The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts Project for Investment Cost I invite the MPs to the plenary. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 156 MPs: 123, against 29, abstention 4. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. "Project" DECISION on the adoption of the Investment Expenditure Project "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Naval Forces The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 16, p. 7a of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Project for Investment Cost and Modernization of the Armed Forces "Actributing a Multifunctional Modular Modular Patrol Ship to the Naval Forces." They voted 143 MPs: 111, against 30, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Thanks to the guests. Thank you to the Minister. The next item in our weekly program is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY. There is a report by the leading Committee on Environment and Water. He'll introduce us to Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u162	Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water and Mrs. Slavaya Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Wastes, before we read the report, please vote on an access procedure for Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u163	I shall put the proposal to the vote. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted, please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u164	♪ I can't believe the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. At a regular meeting held on 19 May 2016 and led by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. The Ministry of Environment and Water at the meeting attended: Ivelina Vassileva Minister; Slava Stoyanova Director Petyo Hadzhiev; from the Association of the Recycling Industry Ivo Georgiev, Chairman of the Board of Directors of ARI, Yavor Bojankov, Vice-President of the Management Board, and members of the Board of Directors, Hrair Wahram, Mihailov, Penko Mihailov, Marina Uzunova, Attorney, Miroslav Evtimov, Attorney, and Vladimir Dimitrov Executive Director; from the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRIB), Desislava Latinova, Nadya Alexandrova-Sabotinova, Expert; from the Bulgarian Industrial Association Dimitar Brankov, Vice-President, and Diana Prodanova, Expert at BIA. The sitting was opened by the President, who presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted by the Commissioners. People's representative Georgi Bojinov proposed to allow for opinions of representatives of organizations with expertise, adopted by the President, who announced that each representative could speak within three minutes. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Ivelina Vassileva. First of all, the draft introduced provisions on the application of newly adopted regulations at European Union level and reflected notes from the European Commission on the transposition into the Bulgarian legislation of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives. Secondly, the changes also reflect the Commission's recommendations on the protection of competition on the high amount of the bank guarantee for activities with non-ferrous and non-ferrous metal waste (CHCM), the need to establish a limit on cash payments with CCMs for a certain period of time and to review the amount of sanctions for activities with CCMs. The bill eliminates unnecessary administrative burdens, creates conditions for better waste management, and therefore prevents......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u165	Colleague, open the report on page three, where the debate in the Commission is reflected. Otherwise, copying the motives of the Bill in the report is not correct. You should focus on who was concerned and what you commented on in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u166	Regarding the submitted Bill took: Milka Gecheva, announcing the support of the Ministry of Finance and a proposal for the reasons for the annulment of para. 2 in art. 11 on the demolition of buildings under 100 sq. m.; Mr. Brankov on the opinion of BIA, related to the market basis, transparency and product fees; Nadia Sabotinova, presenting the positive opinion of KRIB and a proposal to increase the threshold of the free payment from 100 to 1000 BGN.The long-term commitment of the Bulgarian Recycling Industry, which expressed support for the BIA's opinion and stressed the importance of spending the so-called eco fee collected by private companies rather than by the state, and the need for transparency and further reduction of bank guarantees; the people's representative Borislav Velikov, expressing support for the Law and putting some questions about the need for its improvement between the first and second votes in terms of control, the separate collection systems, the determination of the end of the votes and the fact that the people's representative Manol Genov, who announced the principle support of the Law's philosophy, but also the vision of many shortcomings, which will determine the way of the vote; the public representative Ivan Stankov, who announced and will probably make proposals between the two votes; the people's representative Vili Lilkov, expressing the question about the product fee and the information about who gets it and how he is going to spend. Minister Vasileva thanked for the opinions and comments made by the business, the word organizations and the MPs, by giving an answer to many of the questions and announced the possibility to reflect reasoned proposals between the two votes, as well as the readiness of the Ministry for more detailed discussions on the received opinions. The chairman invited other speeches, then ended the discussions and announced a voting procedure adopted by the Commission. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 12 votes for.... 1 against.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u167	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. We will now also hear the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. There are no reports from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Zelenogorski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u168	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 19 May 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, experts from the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as representatives of civil organisations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water. The main part of the amendments to the Law is the harmonisation of the requirements of national legislation with the requirements of the European Union in the field of waste management. In addition, changes aimed at overcoming identified problems in the practice of implementing the Law, easing administrative burdens, limiting risks to the environment and limiting the grey sector in waste treatment activities are proposed. Changes have also been proposed to regulate the legal consequences resulting from Decision No 11 of the Constitutional Court of 2014. Changes have also been proposed to bring certain provisions of the Law into line with the recommendations of the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition. The Commission presented an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing the principled support of the Bill. At the same time, the opinion draws attention to the need for further changes to encourage waste recovery organisations to work together with municipalities, especially small municipalities, which are not obliged to build separate waste collection systems, but are willing to introduce recycling into their settlements. Specific proposals have also been made in this direction. In the course of the discussion, the Members of the National Assembly supported the need to adopt the proposed changes, as in their main part they are directly related to the alignment of the provisions of the Law in accordance with European Union law in this area, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Commission for Protection of Competition. At the end of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 10................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u169	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The debate is open. First word, Mr. Manol Genov. [[Reply by MP Jevdet Chakarov.]] After an agreement, there has been a change in the order of taking the floor. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the submitted Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, there is indeed a step in the right direction, although we have some notes that I will present. The changes dictated by the transposition of European legislation are indisputable in nature and should be supported. The changes related to the reduction of the administrative burden in the course of the issue of the relevant permits and the changes leading to the reduction of the prerequisites for administrative arbitrariness and corruption practices are also positive. I support the provisions aimed at giving greater control opportunities and those introducing new compositions of administrative penalties, as well as the changes leading to an increase in the efficiency of the separation system and equal treatment of activities with individual types of waste. Here I open the clamp and say that the effectiveness of separate collection systems is far from consistent with the objectives and opportunities that we have. It is positive that the importer has complied with the conclusion and the principle position of the Commission for Protection of Competition set out in Decision No 2020 of 11 March 2015 and has proposed a reduction of sanctions for certain infringements, a change in the regime and the amount of bank guarantees, and has also provided for the possibility of payment of cash in transactions with waste from domestic and non-ferrous metals transmitted by natural persons to a certain limit for a certain period of time. I have notes on how the contracting authority has implemented Decision No 2020, as I have already indicated, from the relevant KPC date in the part concerning the free transmission sites of separately collected household waste. Despite the three proposed models by the Commission for Protection of Competition, the importer has proposed its own model, but it, I stress, generates problems and creates prerequisites for a distortion of the competitive environment and, to say it directly, for corrupt practices. Its public interest is not only not protected, but its violation is almost guaranteed. It is because it is envisaged by means of citizens that the municipality will build sites to which citizens will freely transfer waste, a private entity to exploit the sites and dispose of the waste without it being indicated that it owes the municipality any payments. I believe that this is unacceptable and I call for the proposed model to be reconsidered to operate these sites. I hope that between first and second reading we will find the best model, taking full account of the conclusions and recommendations of the KPC in order to protect the public interest to the greatest extent. In view of the above considerations and reasons, we will support at first reading the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, but I reserve the right between first and second reading to make the relevant proposals. We hope to achieve the best functioning model of waste management systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u171	Any lines to Mr. Chakarov? I won't. Will other MPs participate in the debate? Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is widely known that the current Waste Management Act was subject to partial control and subsequent sanctions by institutions such as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection of Competition. This happened after 51 MPs from the left lodged a constitutional complaint. There was a clear and competent pronunciation by the authorities involved. It was they who found in the revision of the problem Law in question that it openly violates fundamental human rights, which are constitutionally guaranteed. No less disturbing was their other claim in this form. The Law compromises any competition in the market of this type of activity. It was logical that this Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act should bring the problematic Law into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Commission for Protection of Competition. With great amazement from the left, we find that someone in vain and irresponsible has wasted his time on superficial remodeling the members of this Law. The MPs from BSP left Bulgaria and we can not close our eyes and assume that the work is supposed to be done. You don't have to be an expert in matter or any company with experience in the industry to understand that the proposed changes are now formal and cosmetic. It is a pity that, behind such a bill, after levels of competent ruling by the Constitutional Court and the Commission for Protection of Competition, there is unfinished work, a low level of competence and expertise and a poor knowledge of the vicious niches in the waste management sector. I don't want to think there's any other motive. Despite the serious remarks of a long time ago under this Law, it is now more than obvious that it does not in any way indicate to fulfil its objective. The violations remain in the new amendments, and prevention is delayed care for unclear when as time. With such findings, we have no other move than to take measures to send it to the Commission for Protection of Competition, to be subject to verification and analysis of its compliance with competition rules. I am also referring to just some of the eloquent new list of gaps and vicious mechanisms that this version of the Law currently offers us. In the proposed texts, inexplicably why the legal barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry are not liquidated. Thus, completely unacceptable and without obstacle remain the prerequisites for unfair competition. Even worse effect produces the continuing action of frank monopolising the industry, which is a fact so far in the face of existing recovery organizations. It operates with packaging waste, out-of-use electrical and electronic equipment, out-of-use motor vehicles, non-use batteries, batteries, tires and oils, under totally confused conditions. Have the creators of this Bill failed to see exactly how these organizations do not distribute a dividend but, at the same time, accumulate hundreds of millions of levs from citizens as taxpayers? Who, if not precisely this Law, must finally impose an adequate mechanism for visible public control and firm rules for spending those public funds. This omission is extremely dangerous and there are two explanations for it, but both of them are not enjoyable or there is a critical lack of expertise in drafting this Bill, or there is hidden lobbying in someone's favor. In the end, the importer tells us that he is willing to intentionally deform the market environment in this business, only one indicator of the remaining absurdity that is offered to us. One of the requirements for the organisations in question is to be able to provide a bank guarantee of 1 million. lv. in favour of the Ministry of Environment and Water, even during an application for a permit. However, nowhere in the proposed provisions does it become clear what and whose responsibility this guarantee provides, as it is not in line with either the market share of the benefiting organisations or the amount of future damage that may be caused as a result of its activity. It is more than clear that the creator of this version of the Law has no real idea how business works in this sector, because the effect is inadequate Who, if not this Bill, had finally had to liquidate the extremely large administrative obstacles and procedures for opening up the market to new businesses? Such a mechanism is missing again, and whatever the explanation for such an error is, it is not apology. Someone must be afraid of entering such small subjects in this market. It is also startling statistics on how the market in question actually operates after such clumsyly crafted standards of ours. Is it normal at the moment to have benefiting organisations with more than 80% market share and more than 60 million. lv. Annual accumulated resources for the relevant waste stream? It's not normal, but it's a reality, and someone seems to benefit from it. The sloppy bill once again allows this to continue without a trace. Eloquent examples are organisations for the recovery of end-of-life motor vehicles. It is clear that the funds collected from licences are used to treat a certain number of motor vehicles necessary to achieve the objectives set out in European legislation. The reason for reflection and follow-up measures are the data I will present to you shortly, and they are not secretly tracked by the political opponent, but are officially published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water. It is from there that it is clear how one of the organisations in question has collected licence fees for 190 400 pcs, the collected and treated and out-of-use motor vehicles are just under 54 thousand. According to the financial statement of the organization, published in the Trade Register, the example is for 2014, the revenues amount to 38 500 lv. The task is for the third grade of arithmetic............................................................................................. A quarter of it is used, i.e. with money [[a line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva]] collected for four cars, Mrs. Karayancheva, is recycled one car - average recycling of one vehicle comes out BGN 1000. Perhaps we should still roll around with these absurd mechanisms operating in the field of waste recovery to startle everyone that this is not normal, because it remains a fearsome question: where will funding be provided for the recycling of the other three vehicles, which sooner or later have been paid the licences, but have not reached the end of their service life? For whom else is it a secret how 90% of recycling companies in the country do not pay fees while carrying out the activity and making a profit from it? How many more serious repairs and additions will it take to clean up this problem? This legal addition is not found now in the proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement. The business asks: is there a need to pay these fees after the revenue from recyclable and reusable materials of out-of-use motor vehicles exceeds the cost of collection, transport and recovery of the same vehicle? The absurdity of how in the poorest country in Europe the Republic of Bulgaria is paid for the highest eco-taxes on initial registration of motor vehicles is not a public secret. The legal interpretation of the so-called "use fees" is extremely inconvenient. Yeah, it's kind of government fees, but according to art. 2, para. 2 of the Law on State Fees, their size must be cost-oriented, and reasonable expectations are that it corresponds to the necessary material and technical and administrative costs when performing a service. A hole again hoping one of the importers wouldn't notice it. The lack of economic justification to demonstrate the conformity of the costs with the amounts of the fees paid makes the latter extremely unlawful. What time did you run into a misdemeanor? A dramatic defect in the philosophy of this Law is that it places private entities disadvantaged with public entities that are waste operators. There is also no market logic in setting a limit on individuals for one calendar year. This limit is extremely low and does not correspond to the volumes and prices of a number of non-ferrous metal waste. It is hardly a coincidence that the practice of legal limits in other countries, for this type of transactions is far different... in Italy is 1000 euros, in Spain is 2000 euros, in Greece is 500 euros, we offer it for 100 levs. In times less. We will not save another serious vice in the current Bill. Old insurmountable so far in the applied amendments is one vice and the practice adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Water administration to purposefully and aggressively limit the publicity of information on public access to data on waste management. This incorrect practice raises clear doubts about the concealment of irregularities, undermines public confidence and blocks the environmentally sound waste management in Bulgaria, all the more so that in the near future there will be a comprehensive reform of European waste management legislation with the so-called "Round Economy Package" drawn up by the European Commission, through which Member States will be obliged to ensure maximum publicity, awareness and transparency of waste management. This package provides, firstly, for the public knowledge of the information on the ownership regime and membership of organisations. Secondly, introducing the principles of cost-orientedness and economic justification of product charges. Thirdly, the establishment of an appropriate monitoring and enforcement framework. Fourth, the establishment of a platform to ensure regular dialogue between stakeholders, including private or public operators operating in the field of waste and local authorities, and, if applicable, the recognised operators preparing for reuse. Fellow Members of the National Assembly, if by chance the importers of this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act do not see the huge gap between their own creation and European trends, this is indeed a great cause for concern, but also the brightest evidence that this Bill has a critical mass of shortcomings. It is impossible for us from BSP left Bulgaria to become accomplices for another irresponsible created, premature Draft Law. We therefore strongly state that we will not support it in the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u173	Thank you. [[Replication by MPs Stanislav Ivanov.]] Colleagues, we're on procedure at 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u174	I said 2:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u175	That's a nice way of putting it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's hear the procedure. Come on in. How many more speeches are there? [[GERB lines: "No. "]] Give me your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to extend the time to completion and voting of the bill, if possible. Because, Madam President, I made a request for a procedure before 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-02.u177	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 74 MPs: 65 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Are there any other MPs willing to take part in the debate? No. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber, those who are outside. [[Noise and lines.]] Quaestors, invite the MPs from the towers. I put to the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. Vote 91 MPs: 80 against 4, abstention 7. The bill was passed at first reading. Communications of parliamentary control on 3 June 2016, Friday 11.00: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Yavor Haytov and a question from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ayhan Etem. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer seven questions from the MPs Ayhan Etem; Mihail Mikov 4. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev; Zhelyo Boychev; Magdalena Tasheva, two questions; Vasil Antonov, and a common question from Nasitimir Ananiev and Dimitar Tanev. 5. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Yavor Haytov, Antony Trenchev, Martin Dimitrov, Valeri Simeonov, Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov; Rumen Gechev, Stanislav Stavilov and Nikola Hadzhiyski and three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Antony Trenchev, and a general question of Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev. 6. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer four questions from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Adem; Willi Lilkov, Durhan Mustafa and Dimitar Bajraktarov. 7. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Velizar Enchev three questions; Atanas Zafirov, Stanislav Stanilov two questions. 8. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. 9. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer four questions from the MPs Willy Lilkov, two questions; Svetoslav Belemezov and Velizar Enchev. 10. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Metodi Andreev. 11. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer seven questions from the MPs Durhan Mustafa, Slavcho Atanasov, Manol Genov and Vasil Antonov two questions; Willi Lilkov and Dimitar Delchev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions written by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, Mariana Boyadjieva and Tasco Ermenkov; - the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov "to six questions from the MPs Georgi Kovachev, Metodi Andreev, Yavor Haytov, Vili Lilkov, Rumen Gechev and Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to two questions with a written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov in general, and Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to a question with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; and to a question from the National Representative Mihail Mikov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov; to a question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to previous commitments, the Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting; the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva; the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova; and the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva. Tomorrow a regular meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
