ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. I propose to your attention specifics Project for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 23 to 25 November 2016, which we made the members of the Conference of Presidents a little earlier today. "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 11 October 2016. Adopted in first vote on 19 October 2016. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. (General project prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 24 February 2016 with importers: Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, the second draft of Mr. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 3. Second vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (General draft prepared by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 15 June 2016 with importers: Rumen Yonchev; second draft Law of the Council of Ministers; third draft Law of the Council of Ministers, but with a later date. 4. First vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The fifth item, which is intended to be the first item on Friday, November 25th, namely the second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 September 2016. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the settlement of rights of citizens with multi-annual housing-saving deposits. Importers are Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. 7. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 have received several proposals. The first at the time is Mr. Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. They propose that a bill to amend and supplement the communist regime for criminal should be included in our programme for this week. Who's gonna defend the offer? Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, we offer to your attention the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the declaration of the Communist regime in Bulgaria as criminal. This is actually the first change to be made to the Law in question, adopted since the year 2000 and unchanged so far, which has remained in force. Last time you entered the extraordinary session of parliament, that point was sixth, we witnessed a deliberate long talk to pass the time of the parliamentary session. I believe that today we should accept this proposal from me and from our colleagues who have done it, because it is impossible 27 years after the changes, symbols of a mythology, of a mystification presented almost as anti-fascist resistance and these such fictions to continue to stand in many places and to stir deeply into the souls of modern Bulgarian citizens. We cannot tolerate any more in Bulgarian history not to study the truth about totalitarian communist regime to sweep under the carpet. This question is a matter of national self-awareness who we are and where we are going and whether we want to go where we are going. I call on all MPs who consider themselves Bulgarians, as patriots, to support this Law, because it has nothing to do with the Bulgarian and patriotic way in which a past mythology is presented, which revolves around this past. I invite all people who currently have democratic thinking to vote for the entry of this Law, this proposal, into the National Assembly's agenda. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u3	We vote. They voted 122 MPs: 78, against 34, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]] Revoting? Didn't you manage to vote, Mr. Ermenkov? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] The other colleagues could not vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a re-vote because some colleagues couldn't vote and because I'm worried that my colleagues didn't understand one thing,........... if you try to pull a skeleton out of the wardrobe of history, there's no way that another hundred thousand skeletons will not fall on top of you and bury you. So let's remember the Bible's little rephrased: The one who pulls out a skeleton, the one who dies from a skeleton, [[noise and lines]] , to vote as people, to end with a practice that divides the Bulgarian society. Our story is as it was, and we can't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I understand your colleagues failed to vote. It's a re-vote. Vote 128 MPs: 88, against 33, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Procedure "Stodi Andreev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that the item just adopted should become the second item on the agenda of the weekly programme so that it does not happen as last week, when a Member of the National Assembly here reads some reports to run out of working hours. That's why I suggest a second point becomes the just-accepted point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u7	Inverse opinion of this procedure? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: for 89, against 39, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 is from Mr. Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, who offer inclusion in the weekly program of the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Insurance Code, No 654-01-85, submitted on 7 July 2016 by Delyan Dobrev, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I offer to your attention a bill submitted with first importer colleague Delyan Dobrev, same as Peter Slavov, me and other colleagues. What's this about? It's about justice. It's not right if you use seasonal motor vehicles like bikes, mopeds, caravans, campers a few months a year to pay annual civil liability. It's just not fair, it's not fair. It's not about left or right. As mentioned in this tribune, justice is neither left nor right is justice. So this Bill, ladies and gentlemen, I hope it will be supported by all of you because this Parliament has accepted automatic deregistered and now, if these people do not pay annual civil liability, their mopeds, bikes, campers, caravans will automatically be deregistered. Only bikes in Bulgaria are over 150 thousand according to the Ministry of Interior. This will lead to a great administrative burden and chaos in the country. And most importantly, people say, "If I only use my bike summer, why pay for a whole year? Why, if I only use my trailer summer, pay for a whole year? So, ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on this Parliament to do at least one good deed every day, on at least one sensible thing, and I call on you on such principled matters to show how we can work together, unite and unanimously accept them. Again, the first importer of this bill is colleague Delyan Dobrev. We joined in after that, but our case is mutual and it's good. I'm counting on your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u9	Voting regime, fellow Members. 135 MPs voted: 125, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The third bill for inclusion in the weekly programme is offered to us by Mr. Dragomir Stoinev, and he is the Public Enterprises Bill, No 654-01-94, from 20 July 2016 with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Mr. Stoinev, you have the opportunity to defend your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I hope you will support this bill, which, unfortunately, has not even been allocated to parliamentary committees since 20 July. The bill concerns state and municipal enterprises with more than 50% participation and their conversion into normal market entities, equivalent partners of the private sector. Of course, one of the main recommendations why we are not a member of the Organisation for Economic Development and Cooperation is precisely for the scattered legislation and lack of control, accountability and transparency of state and municipal enterprises. What we propose with this Bill is that these enterprises work entirely on a market principle, but even more importantly, on which I would like to strengthen your attention, is to create a legal basis for conducting open procedures for nomination and discussion of candidates for executive positions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you passed this Law, there wouldn't be any changes that have happened in the past two weeks. Someone has to answer and perhaps Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Tsvetanov, if you could pay attention to me and answer me: why was the board of VMZ replaced by Sopot, in a profitable enterprise? Why Gergana Mladenova...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u11	Mr. Stoinev, you have the opportunity to offer a bill on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u12	Why was Gergana Mladenova, the wife of Nikolay Mladenov, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, appointed to the board of the Bulgarian gas interconnection? Why was completely replaced the board of the DKK with people who have almost no experience, such as Krasimir Tenev and Lachezar Kalburov, because Atanas Trifonov at the VMZ. Sopot is the interim chairman of GERB Sopot? You can see that this policy, which I had hoped, that you had given up putting ladybugs on board, led to some good results, but now, just as a pre-election, you are once again returning to this particular policy of yours. Let's accept this bill, he's good. This also concerns municipal enterprises to stop the draining of state resources, to generate state-owned capital [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because these businesses can work if...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u14	I'm graduating, one sentence, Madam President. These businesses can work if they work on a market principle with professionals, with people who pass a competition who can do their job and not be there only and only to drain businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u15	Voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: 47, Against 37, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 16 November to 22 November this year: Draft amending and supplementing the Measurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. A bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and controlling toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is leading, and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with registration index RD 50-127 of 26 September 2016. Importer The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. The representatives of the National Assembly are Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Willi Lilkov. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad is leading. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on Access to Effective Drug Treatment. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Energy Commission is accompanying. Draft Law for ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Project No P160511. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. More will be seen by the Budget and Finance Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee. The updated Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly on 17 November 2016. It was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 17 November the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria received a Report of checks and assessment of the status of the rights of unaccompanied refugee children seeking or receiving international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria. The report is made available to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and is available to the Members of the National Assembly Library. Point one for our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXCIES AND DANISH CARDS. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u16	Madam President, please first of all, for a procedure to be put to the vote in the Chamber to be allowed Mr. Kiril Ananiev.. Deputy Minister of Finance, Ms. Mina Yankova. State Expert in the Department of Tax Policy...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u17	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission of the guests to the Chamber. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u18	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 602-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2016, adopted on the first vote on 19 October 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on excise and tax warehouses. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Paragraph 1, § 2, § 3, § 4. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 1 to 4 including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law, together with paragraphs 1 to 4, including by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u20	Paragraph 5? a proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Nikola Hadzhiyski. Paragraph 5 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u21	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Metodi Andreev and Nikola Hadzhiyski "the Commission does not support it. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 16 against 38, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 5 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u23	We vote § 6. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u24	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev, Mihail Mikov, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov, Georgi Gokov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The decision or refusal under paragraph 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u25	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 in the version of the Commission Report. There are 96 MPs voting: 96, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u26	Paragraph 8 to § 14 including by importer. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 8 to 14 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u27	Ann Block, we vote paragraphs 8 to 14 including. Vote 87 MPs: 85 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u28	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 15 and proposes the following wording: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57a The following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 5 shall be added at the end, or for the production of electricity. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 shall be added at the end, with the exception of non-compliance obligations, as well as deferred, deferred or secured liabilities. 3. The creation of para. 10: "Sales within the meaning of the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or of another State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, shall operate as a registered entity under para. 1 by branch in the Republic of Bulgaria and by para. 1, t. 2 may also be via a local legal person - accredited representative in accordance with art. 133-135 of the Value Added Tax Act
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u29	Statements under § 15? I won't. We vote § 15. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u30	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 16 and shall propose the following wording: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. A third sentence shall be created: For sites of persons selling natural gas for domestic or commercial use and for motor fuel, the starting points of the natural gas transmission networks and the points of transmission of natural gas at which an exemption for consumption within the meaning of art. 20, para. 2, p. 17 and 18. 2. In para. 6 t. 3 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u31	Paragraph 16 statements? I won't. We vote § 16. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u32	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 17 to 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u33	We vote paragraphs 17 to 36 inclusive. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u34	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the word the taken shall be added to the abandoned and the words shall be added under art. 106a (s) are deleted. 2. In para. 5 sentence second after the word 3. In para. 8 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u35	Statements? I won't. We vote § 37. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u36	Paragraphs 37, 38 and the name of the The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 37, which becomes 38, for 38, which becomes 39, as well as the name of the division
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u37	I shall put to the vote § 37, 38, respectively, by importer, which shall become 39, and the name of the division. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u38	Under § 39, there is a proposal by Menda Stoyanova, which the Commission supports. There is a proposal by Tarnovalyski, Gechev, Mikov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Boychev, which the Commission supports. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 39 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 39 by importer. Vote 101 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u40	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u41	We vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u42	There is a proposal of MPs Metodi Andreyev and Hadzhiyski to create a new § The Commission does not support the proposal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. For wine producers not producing ethyl alcohol for the period during which the provision of art. Art. 5 and art. 6 of Council Directive 92/84/EEC on a zero excise duty rate for silent and noisy wines shall not apply: - the rules for tax warehouses; - rules on the movement of excise goods; - the rules on collateral, documentation and reporting of excise goods; - the requirements for the use of measuring and checking devices and periodic calibration of the wine-producing and storage vessels. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! To clarify what my colleague Hadzhiyski and I wanted to propose to the people's representation. When Bulgaria enters the European Union, it starts implementing directives and regulations. Council Directive 92/84 EC lays down that wine is a zero excise duty product. In other words, the countries which have adopted this directive do not receive as an indirect tax any income in the form of excise duty from the production of wine. Unfortunately, however, our country continues with the same, let's say, stupid stubbornness to think that wine producers are actually people who produce excise goods, for which all restrictions and complications that are quite normally related to goods with real excise duty should be in force. In 2006, wine producers, I speak only to wine, had a similar proposal.. the state to take into account the fact that the excise duty which is collected for wine is actually zero leva and to ease their production. Unfortunately, that doesn't work. As an MP from an area where there are many wine cellars, I know the problem very well and I will tell you very clearly. Imagine that there is a wine cellar that deals only with wine production, does not produce any other alcohol, produces only wine. In 2012, Customs made a relief by dividing the wine cellars into two groups: small up to 1000 hectoliters, and large over 1000 hectoliters. For the small ones up to 1000 specifics, they made the relief not to be tax warehouses, but left the obligation of these small cellars to install measuring instruments, called the control points, and to comply with all restrictions in the production and trade of excise goods. Although again, wine in Bulgaria has an excise duty of zero. For the large ones, which are over 1000 specifics, the limit remains to be excise warehouses. So what's going on right now? We have about 300 wine cellars, small and large. At the moment, if a person decides to invest and make a cellar with more than 100,000 litres or more than 1000 specifics, as recorded in the Law, to use his winery for tasting, he must make a separate tax warehouse. Because under the Law on excises and tax warehouses, if there is no separate tax warehouse, there is no tasting in the cellar building. What's next? It follows that in front of this wine cellar owner is the dilemma: it must be reached with 200 "250,000." BGN, to design and build a separate tax warehouse with the same temperamental characteristics as the cellar itself, because wine from the cellar must go to the tax warehouse there to be stored. And if tastings are made, you have to remove it from the tax warehouse, go to the cellar and there to do the tasting. That is, the lack of real indirect tax, the lack of real excise duties leads to real losses for people who are involved in winemaking. The inertness is very strong. When I explained this in the Commission, only one person supported me, no one really thought about what the state had loaded the people who produce wine and only wine. We give them, we charge these people every year to make expenses from which the state has no benefit, except as VAT, which does not always come back to people. So this thing, I think, is time to be corrected. Wine is alcohol recorded at a separate point. It is not a spirit drink, it is not hard alcohol, so it is intended in Bulgaria to be with zero excise duty. And I ask: who needs a person who only produces wine in his enterprise to put control points that will measure the amount of wine that has passed through his enterprise to build a tax warehouse that costs hundreds of thousands of levs? Because this is a new construction and design, then there will be separate accounting to this tax warehouse because it is in particular accounting. What's more, I need the Customs to come in twice a year, notice the Customs coming in, check that this guy's checkpoints work! You are aware that every visit of Customs means a problem because in Bulgaria customs officers are so used to it, and customs officials has become termite. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u44	There's no way the five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u45	And finally, the other thing is extremely important: you have to calibrate the vessels every two years. In Bulgaria, only one company calibrated the vessels. I believe that this is a protectionist policy that prevents small and medium-sized businesses from investing freely and working. Therefore, I urge you to think before pressing the red button or abstention. I call on us to support this proposal, my proposal and Nikola Hadzhiyski's.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u46	Any lines to Mr. Andreev? I won't. Other speeches Ms. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u47	Dear colleagues, I just want to say a few things. Firstly, wine and spirits are excise goods in the European Union Directive, and in this Directive they are subject to the same regime. That Directive also provides for the possibility for Member States to give a zero rate for wine. Bulgaria has taken advantage of this option and we have many years already zero rate for wine. I must tell you that there are countries in the European Union that do not have a zero rate for wine. For this reason, the requirements for wine producers are the same as those for other excise goods. However, with regard to small wine producers, our excise law provides for an extremely light registration and control procedure so that indeed these small wine producers are not burdened with an additional administrative burden. At the same time, the proposals made by the colleague for the removal of appliances, for calibrated vessels and so on are requirements under the Wine Act, where these requirements do not concern whether the goods are excise or not, and concern the Agency's ability to respect and control the quality of the wine produced, its origin, labelling, and so on. Another point is that all these winemakers have as a waste product must, mud, jibs and so on, which are also an element of control. That is, those who have not organised the production of a spirit drink, using some of these waste products, apparently selling them or making them any other realization, or scrapping, or destroying these products, and this, of course, is one of the elements of the control carried out by the Customs Agency, as well as by the Wine and Spirit Beverage Agency. To me, this proposal really sounds good, but it's not right to accept it. Once again, for small wine producers, a very light registration regime has been established under the Law on excise duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u48	Any lines to Mrs. Stoyanova? Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u49	First, the measuring instruments do not measure the quality of the wine. The measuring instruments only measure the quantity of wine. The quality of wine, Mrs. Stoyanova, is measured in laboratories of the wine-producing establishments concerned. So the measuring instruments do not measure any quality at all. As far as waste products are concerned, nowhere does my proposal suggest that these waste products are not controlled. I've clearly written no tax warehouses, no restrictions on transport of wine according to excise goods, no control points and no calibration. That's what I suggested. Nowhere have I suggested that waste products be controlled. The other thing is that in Europe there are countries with an excise rate other than zero, there they really must comply with the requirements of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. But in Bulgaria we see the double archin even from what Mrs. Stoyanova said. For small wine producers up to 1000 specifics, there may be no tax warehouses, but for the large ones who produce the same, but in a larger quantity and their business will have tax warehouses for them. Since the European regulation is supposed to be the same, the directive must be applied in the same way in a country? The state can't artificially invent one is small, the other is large, the small ones will make relief, there will be no tax warehouses, and the big ones will have tax warehouses! To refer to legislation that we are currently criticising, to put it mildly, is inappropriate. I repeat, the attempt to leave the current regime to people who produce only wine, I stress, only wine, is just a protectionist state policy against people who have dared to do something alone in this business. This is a hidden tax that the state has imposed on them unjustly! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u50	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u51	Mr. Andreev, I am neither a winemaker nor a producer of spirits nor a user of small distilleries, and I have no such experience as you. You're a specialist in this area. I know that. However, as a budgeter, as a person who thinks about budget revenues, I believe that weakening the control of excise goods is not a good solution for the state. And the fact that wine producers are divided into small and large is also under a directive and I think it is normal because small businesses, in this case small wine producers, should be relieved of the conditions of the state, unlike the big ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u52	Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u53	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u54	When using a replica, of course, that the duplicate should address the MP, so there is no personal explanation now. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Metodi Andreev and Nikola Hadzhiyski. The Commission does not support this proposal. We vote. They voted 83 MPs: 30, 20, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Paragraph 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Under § 41, there is a proposal of the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2, which is reflected by the dropping of t. 40th of paragraph 41. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Tarnowaliski, Gechev, Mikov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Boychev: The following amendments shall be made in § 41: (a) To be created t. 13a: 13a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 66 is created. 3: The tax rate for infant formula, follow-on formula, single-use diapers for infants, aids, disability devices and facilities, car seats, home care services such as home care and care for children, elderly people, sick or disabled persons shall be 5 per cent. (b) t. 14, 15 and 16 c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) (d) c. 19 the following amendments shall be made: - the created al. 4 ssssssssssssssssssssssssss; - the creation of para. 3 in art. 78 becomes content of t. 19; (e) t. 20, 21, 22 and 23 are out; (f) c. 29 the following amendments shall be made: - letter........................................................................................................... - the letter "b" becomes the content of t. 29, as in the new version of t. 1 the words "or in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity" shall be removed and the comma in front of the word "partly" shall be replaced by the Union "or" shall be replaced by the Union; (g) c. 41, b. The following amendments and additions shall be made: - the introductory sentence is changed to the given point. 82, 83, 84 and 85 - Complement the t. 83, 84 and 85 as follows: I'm sorry, I'm Foods for infants are foods intended for particular nutritional uses by infants during their first months, which are sufficient to satisfy the nutritional needs of these infants until appropriate additional food is introduced. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 84. "Transitional foods' are foods intended for particular nutritional use by infants in the introduction of appropriate supplementary food and which represent the main liquid food from the progressively increasing diversity of foods in these infants, such as adapted milk, yeasts and mashed potatoes for children. I'm sorry, I'm For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: (h) c. 43 the following amendments shall be made: - the created § 15e, 15f and 15g are dropped; - the creation of § 15h, which becomes §15d, becomes the content of t. 43. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of § 41 and propose the following wording: ............................................................................. In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 5, in the text before t. 1 the words "and their quality" shall be replaced by "in their quality." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3: (aa) c. 1 and 2 the words "in whole or in part' shall be replaced by "in whole, in part or in proportion to the degree of use for an independent economic activity'; (bb) c. 3 shall be added at the end in which the person is not registered for the purposes of VAT. (b) the creation of para. 6: "Alinea" 3, p. 2 shall also apply in the case of the grant of intra-Community supply of goods where, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a wholly or partly tax credit has been deducted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 is created. 5. "Alinea" 3, p. 1 shall not apply to goods used for which the right to tax credit under art. 71a, 71b and art. 73b. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. provision of property by the State and municipalities to applicants for the needs of private kindergartens and schools under the Pre-school and School Education Act and their subsequent transition to the State and municipalities by applicants for the closure of kindergartens and schools. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 10a: Minus the supply of goods or services in other cases Art. 10a. (1) There is no supply of a good or service to a supplier of a good or service by a partner to achieve the general objective of a contract for the creation of a non-personalised company and provided that no remuneration has been expressly agreed. (2) For the goods or services received under para. 1 imported for general use, no rights and obligations under this law arise for the non-personalised company. The associate who imports the goods or services shall fulfil all the rights and obligations under this law in relation to their use by the non-personalised company, including the right to deduct a tax credit and the obligation to make an adjustment to the tax credit used. (3) When the goods and services under para. 1 shall be used by the non-personalised company, both for the provision of supplies for which there is a right to deduct tax credit and for supplies or activities for which there is no such right, the partner shall charge a tax or make an adjustment to the tax credit used under the law, using the coefficient under art. 73 for the year of the change calculated on the basis of the turnover of the non-personalised company. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: On delivery with periodic or continuous execution, except for supplies under art. 6, para. 2, each period for which payment is agreed shall be considered a separate supply and the tax event for it shall arise on the date on which the payment has become due. When providing a service for which a phased execution is agreed, the completion of each phase shall be considered a separate delivery and the tax event for it shall occur on the date of implementation of the stage concerned. (b) in para. 5 after the words "Alinea 4" is added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 2 is amended as follows: The tax base of the supply of services under art. 9, para. 3, p. 1 and 2 shall be the sum of direct costs incurred in carrying out it. When determining the amount of direct costs incurred for the goods used, which are or would be fixed assets, account shall be taken of the cost of their use as part of the value of the tax base, of the tax levied on which a tax credit has been deducted, calculated for each tax period by the linear method of immovable property for a period of 20 years from the beginning of the tax period during which the right to tax credit has been exercised, respectively, from the beginning of the tax period during which the actual use has started, in the case that the property does not benefit more than one year after the tax period during which the right of the tax credit has been exercised and for the remaining goods for a period of 5 years from the beginning of the tax period during which the right of the tax credit has been exercised. The cost of waste in the case of an established property right on a commodity shall be determined for the period for which the right is established but not more than the relevant years under the preceding sentence. The tax base of delivery of services under art. 9, para. 3, p. 3 is the sum of the direct costs incurred in carrying out them, reduced by cost of waste, given the normal economic life of the improvement, and if the amount of direct costs cannot be determined, the tax base is the market price. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) c. 2: (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: (s) vessels intended and used for the transport of goods or passengers at sea, except those used for sports and leisure purposes or for personal use; (bb) in point (b) (i) the following point shall be added: (c) point (d) is amended as follows: (d) military vessels falling within the Combined Nomenclature under CN code 8906 10 00 leaving the territory of the country and flying in the direction of ports or anchoring outside the territory of the country; (b) points 3, 4 and 5 are amended as follows: "3." the supply of construction, maintenance, repair, modification, transformation, assembly, equipment, equipment, equipment, transport and disposal services of aircraft used by an air operator engaged primarily in international buses and vessels under point (a) of paragraph 1. 2, except those referred to in point (d); 4. the rental of aircraft used by an air operator engaged primarily in international trips and of vessels under point 4. 2, except those referred to in point (d); 5. the processing of aircraft used by an air operator engaged primarily in international trips and of vessels referred to in paragraph 5. 2, except for those referred to in point (d); (c) c. 6 point (s) is amended as follows: . (a) vessels referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article. 2, except for those referred to in point (d); (d) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." the supply of aircraft used by an air operator engaged primarily in international trips and to vessels under point (a) of paragraph 1. 2, except for those referred to in point (d); (e) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. the supply of services referred to in Chapter 9 of the Code of Commercial Shipping to vessels referred to in paragraph 1. 2, except for those referred to in point (d); 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 1, t. 2 after the words "supplied for their activity or "supplied' is added. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1, t. 4 words and the production service shall be deleted. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 79, para. This appropriation is intended to 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. aircraft and vessels under art. 31, t. 7, as well as spare parts for them; 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Despite paragraph 4 of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 3, the tax shall be payable on the date of issue of the invoice and, where there is no obligation to issue the invoice, on the date of issue of the document certifying the acquisition of a new vehicle when issued before the 15th day of the month following the month in which the tax event took place. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In the event that the invoice or document certifying the acquisition of a new vehicle is issued in respect of a payment made before the date of occurrence of the tax event, it shall not apply. 14. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 71a: Law of tax credit proportional to the extent use for independent economic activity in the case of acquisition or construction of real estate Art. 71a. (1) For tax levied on the acquisition or construction of immovable property to be used simultaneously for both an independent economic activity and for the personal needs of the taxable person or for the needs of the owner, of his workers and employees, or more generally for purposes other than his independent economic activity, the person shall be entitled to deduct a tax credit in accordance with the rules of this Chapter only for the part of the tax levied on him corresponding to the use of the property for an independent economic activity. (2) The part of the tax charged under para. 1 corresponding to the use of the property for independent economic activity shall be determined in proportion to the degree of use of the immovable property for independent economic activity, by multiplying the tax levied on the acquisition or construction of the immovable property by the proportion of its expected use for independent economic activity in relation to its overall use, both for independent economic activity and for purposes other than the independent economic activity calculated to the second decimal place. (3) The registered person shall be entitled to a partial tax credit under art. 73 for definitions by order of para. 2 a deduction tax in respect of immovable property which, in the framework of its independent economic activity, uses both for the provision of supplies for which it is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies or activities for which it is not entitled. (4) The proportion under para. 2 shall be determined by applying a allocation criterion which ensures the maximum accurate calculation of the amount of tax corresponding to the use of the immovable property for independent economic activity, taking into account the specifics of the property. (5) Alinei 1 s 4 shall also apply to a property right established in favour of the registered person to be used both for independent economic activity and for his personal needs or for the needs of the owner, his workers and employees, or more generally for purposes other than his independent economic activity. (6) In the case of acquisition or construction of real estate, the registered person shall assess whether to include in his economic assets all or only part of the property which can be defined and distinguished. For the part of the property not included in the business assets, the provisions of this law shall not apply. 15. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 71b: Law of tax credit proportional to the extent use for independent economic activity in the production, acquisition or importation of other than real estate goods which are or would be fixed assets Art. 71b. For goods other than immovable property which are or would be fixed assets and which will be used simultaneously by a registered person for both independent economic activity and for his or her personal needs or for the needs of the owner, his or her employees, or more generally for purposes other than his or her independent economic activity, the person shall apply the provisions of art. 71a, para. 1.... 5.............................................................................. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 4 t. 4 shall be added at the end, with the exception of those for which no tax credit is deducted on the basis of art. 71a and 71b. 17. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 73b: Law of deduction of tax credit in the case of the production, acquisition or import of goods or the receipt of services, which are not or would not be fixed assets Art. 73b. For goods or services which are not or would not be fixed assets, a registered person may exercise the right to a tax credit for the amount of tax corresponding to the use of the goods or services in the framework of the independent economic activity of supply for which he is entitled to deduct the tax credit by determining by a reasonable method that amount when using the goods or service: 1. for independent economic activity and for its personal needs or for the needs of the owner, its workers and employees, or more generally for purposes other than its independent economic activity, and/or 2. in the framework of its independent economic activity for the provision of supplies for which it is entitled to deduct tax credit and for supplies or activities for which it is not entitled by not applying art. 73. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 102 or 132s shall be replaced by the following: 102, 132 or 132a (b) in para. 2, p. 4 the word "somethings' is replaced by "somethings'; (c) the creation of para. 4. For the goods available to the registered person under para. 1 which are or would be fixed assets which are used simultaneously for independent economic activity and for its personal needs or for the needs of the owner, of its workers and employees, or more generally for purposes other than its independent economic activity, the right to tax credit under para. 2 occurs under the terms of art. 71a and 71b. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2, p. 5 the word "somethings" is replaced by "somethings" and "somethings" is replaced by 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in the title, the words "in the event of a change to the tax base and in the event of a change to the type of delivery' shall be deleted; (b) A new para shall be created. 1: The amount of tax credit used is the value of the tax that a person registered under that law has deducted in the year of exercising the right to tax credit. c) the current para. 1 becomes para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (d) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the word. 2 " and the words "al. " The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: (e) the creation of para. 4, 5 and 6: The registered person is obliged to adjust the amount of the tax credit used when the delivery is cancelled, for which an advance payment invoice has been issued in the tax period during which the supply is spoiled, in accordance with the Rules of Law, whether the advance payment has been refunded, seized or otherwise settled and whether the supplier has issued a credit note. (5) Alinei 2 and 4 shall also apply where registration under this supplier's law is suspended. (6) Corrections under Art. 79, para. Art. 1, art. 79a and 79b in the case of an existing lease contract for which Art. 79a and 79b is applied. 6, para. 2, p. 3 shall be carried out by the lessor. 21. Article 79 is amended as follows: supplies in the destruction, loss and marriage of goods or in the supply of goods or services Art. 79. (1) A registered person who, in whole, in part or in proportion to the degree of use for an independent economic activity, has deducted a tax credit for a commodity produced, acquired or imported by it, in the event of destruction, establishment of gaps or in the event of scrapping of the goods charged and owes a tax of the amount of the tax credit used. (2) A registered person who, in whole, in part or in proportion to the degree of use for an independent economic activity, has deducted a tax credit for the goods produced, acquired or paid by him or her, respectively, has wholly or partly deducted a tax credit for a service received when carrying out a subsequent supply of the goods or service for which there is no right to deduct a tax credit owes a tax of the amount of the tax credit used. (3) For goods and services which are or would be fixed assets for the purposes of para. 1 and 2 the person owes a tax of an amount determined according to the following formula: 1. for real estate: (a) for which a tax credit has been fully deducted in the acquisition or construction since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied in the report; (b) for which a partial tax credit has been deducted in the acquisition or construction since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct tax credit according to a formula applied in the report; or (c) for which a tax credit is deducted on acquisition or construction in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71a, according to the formula applied in the report, where the relevant parameters are described; 2. for other goods: (a) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a tax credit has been fully deducted, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied in the report; or (b) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a partial deduction of a tax credit has been deducted since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (c) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a tax credit has been deducted in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71b, according to formula, with a descriptive part of the formula itself; 3. for services: (a) for which a tax credit has been deducted in full upon receipt, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (b) for which a partial tax credit has been deducted upon receipt, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied with a descriptive part; (4) The charge of the tax under para. In the tax period during which the relevant circumstance occurred, the tax period is carried out by drawing up a protocol to determine the amount of tax due and to reflect it in the sales log and the reference period for that tax period. (5) A registered person who has deducted a tax credit in part or in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity, including as a result of an adjustment under art. 79a, for goods produced, acquired or imported by it, including the acquisition or construction of real estate, or has deducted a partial tax credit for a service received, including as a result of an adjustment under art. 79b which are or would be fixed assets and carry out taxable delivery of the goods or service is entitled to deduct non-uses in the acquisition of a tax credit of an amount determined according to the following formula: 1. for real estate: (a) for which a partial tax credit has been deducted in the acquisition or construction since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied in the report; or (b) for which a tax credit is deducted in acquisition or construction in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71a, according to the formula applied and the corresponding explanations thereto; 2. for other goods: (a) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a partial deduction of a tax credit has been deducted, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (b) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a tax credit has been deducted in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71b, according to a formula with a descriptive part thereof; 3. for services for which a partial tax credit has been deducted upon receipt, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to the formula applied and its clarifications; (6) The right to tax credit for the tax under para. 5 shall be exercised in the tax period during which the supply of the goods or services was carried out or in one of the following 12 tax periods by drawing up a record of the amount of non-uses for the acquisition of the tax credit that the person may deduct and its coverage in the purchasing book and the reference for that tax period. (7) Alinei 2, 3 and 5 shall also apply in the case of delivery under art. 6, para. 3, p. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 111, para. 1 in the light of the tax regime of delivery at the date of occurrence of the tax event. 22. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 79a: supplier of used tax credit for acquired, produced or imported goods, including acquired or constructed real estate that are or would be fixed assets Art. 79a. (1) For goods, including real estate, which are or would be fixed assets, for each of the years following the year of the exercise of the right to a tax credit in which a change in the use of the goods concerned for supplies for which there is a right to deduct a tax credit, the amount of the tax credit used shall be adjusted where it is greater or less than the one to which the registered person would have the right to deduct if the goods were acquired in the year of the change. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply whether, in the case of the production, acquisition or importation of the goods, including the acquisition or construction of the immovable property, a tax credit has been deducted in whole, in part or in proportion to the degree of use for an independent economic activity or a tax credit has not been deducted. (3) The correction under para. 1 is determined by the following formula: 1. for real estate: (a) for which no tax credit is deducted on the basis of art. 70, according to the formula applied; or (b) for which, in the case of acquisition or construction, a tax credit has been fully deducted where the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (c) for which a partial tax credit has been deducted in the acquisition or construction since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to the formula and applied in the report; or (d) for which a tax credit is deducted in acquisition or construction in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71a, according to the formula applied and the descriptive part attached to it; 2. for other goods: (a) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, no tax credit has been deducted on the basis of art. 70, according to the formula applied; or (b) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a tax credit has been fully deducted where the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (c) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a partial deduction of a tax credit has been deducted since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to a formula applied; or (d) for which, in the case of production, acquisition or import, a tax credit has been deducted in proportion to the degree of use for independent economic activity under art. 71b, according to the formula applied and the descriptive part thereof; (4) The correction under para. 3 shall be carried out in the last tax period of the calendar year during which the relevant circumstances occurred and if the person is deregistered in the last tax period under art. 87, para. 4 by drawing up a record of the adjustment made and reflecting the modification in the amount of the tax credit used under this Protocol in the purchasing book and the reference for that tax period as follows: 1. with a (+) sign, where it is intended to increase the amount of the tax credit used; 2. with a sign (-) where the amount of the tax credit used is reduced. (5) For a property right established in favour of the registered person on a commodity, para. 1 shall apply for the period for which the law is established but not more than the relevant years under para. 3. (6) The correction under para. 3 may not be carried out when it is in the direction of an increase in the amount of the tax credit used. 23. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 79b: supplier of used tax credit for received services that are or would be fixed assets Art. 79b. (1) For services that are or would be fixed assets, for each of the years following the year of the exercise of the right to a tax credit in which an amendment in the use of the relevant supply service for which there is a right to deduct a tax credit, the amount of the tax credit used shall be adjusted where it is greater or less than that to which the registered person would have the right to deduct if the service was received in the year of the change. (2) Paragraph 1 shall apply regardless of whether a tax credit is deducted in whole or in part or in part or not from a tax credit upon receipt of the service. (3) The correction under para. 1 is determined by the following formula: 1. for services for which no tax credit is deducted on receipt on the basis of art. 70, according to the formula applied; or 2. for services for which a tax credit has been deducted in full upon receipt where the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity only for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit according to an applied formula; or 3. for services for which a partial tax credit has been deducted upon receipt, since the person intended to use them in the framework of his independent economic activity for supplies for which he is entitled to deduct a tax credit and for supplies for which he is not entitled to deduct a tax credit according to the formula applied and the descriptive part thereof; (4) The correction under para. 3 shall be carried out in the last tax period of the calendar year during which the relevant circumstances occurred and if the person is deregistered in the last tax period under art. 87, para. 4 by drawing up a record of the adjustment made and reflecting the modification in the amount of the tax credit used under this Protocol in the purchasing book and the reference for that tax period as follows: 1. with a (+) sign, where it is intended to increase the amount of the tax credit used; 2. with a sign (-) where the amount of the tax credit used is reduced. (5) The correction under para. 3 may not be carried out when it is in the direction of an increase in the amount of the tax credit used. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: spares under art. 79, 79a and 79b shall not be carried out: 1. in the following cases: (a) the goods or services are used for supplies under art. 70, para. 3; (b) for the supply of goods or services to the acquirer from the transformer, from the alienator or from the importer in the cases referred to in art. 10, para. 1; (c) for the import of goods or services by a partner to achieve the general objective of a contract for the establishment of an unpersonalised company; 2. if the tax regime of supply for which the registered person uses the goods or services is changed by law; 3. for real estate, if 20 years have passed from: (a) the beginning of the year of the exercise of the right to tax credit, respectively from the beginning of the year of actual use, if the property does not benefit more than one year after the year of the exercise of the right to tax credit, or (b) the beginning of the year during which the term under art. 72, para. 1 where the acquisition or construction of the property does not exercise the right to a tax credit. 4. for other than real estate goods or services, if 5 years have passed from: (a) the beginning of the year in which the right to tax credit is exercised; or (b) the beginning of the year during which the term under art. 72, para. 1 where no right to tax credit has been exercised; 5. when the document under art. 71 for the acquisition of the goods or services is not indicated in the diary for the purchases under art. 124 within the term referred to in art. 72. (b) in para. 2: (aa) in the text before t. 1 words "al." the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (bb) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. marriage of fixed assets where their carrying amount is lower than 10 per cent of their reporting value. (c) paragraph 3 is repealed. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 92. 5 is amended When in the cases referred to in para. 3 and 4 there are required public claims collected by the National Revenue Agency which arose until the date of issue of the revision act or the act of capture and recovery, the Revenue Authority shall capture and recover the remainder, if any. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 3 the words "material or useful' are deleted; (b) in para. 4 a sentence is created second and third: The turnover is included in the turnover realised by the transformer or by the alien, where the person is not registered under this law, for a period not exceeding the last 12 consecutive months prior to the conversion or transfer in the cases referred to in art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 as well as ct. 3 only in case of a non-cash contribution of an undertaking or a separate part thereof. In the case of separation or separation, as well as in the case of a non-cash contribution of a separate part of an undertaking, account shall be taken of the turnover realised in carrying out the transferred activities by the transformer or alienor and, if the latter is not to be determined in relation to the activities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by the words "supplied' at its request'; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: On written request by the registered person within 7 days, the revenue authority shall issue a certificate in one or more copies according to the person's request. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 108 is "Signature of a person registered on the grounds of art. 132 and 132a may submit an application for registration where, at the date of submission of the application, there is no grounds for compulsory registration. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 2 after the words. 108, para. The following shall be added to the list: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: On the date of the registration, the person is deemed to be making a supply within the meaning of the law of all available goods and services, for which he was wholly, partially or proportionate to the degree of use for an independent economic activity, using a tax credit and which are: (b) in para. 2 t. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." in the event of de-registered due to the death of a natural person or a natural person, a sole trader where the total amount of the tax bases of the goods and services available, as defined under art. 27, para. 5, for which the full, partial or proportional use of an independent economic activity has benefited from a tax credit up to BGN 25 000. including; where the total amount of tax bases of goods and services available exceeds BGN 25 000, tax shall be charged on the total amount of tax bases of goods and services; 2. when the total amount of tax bases of available goods and/or services exceeds BGN 25 000. in the event of de-registered due to the death of a natural person who: (a) is not a sole trader if the independent economic activity of the deceased is continued by a person registered under this Law on a basis which grants the right to deduct a tax credit (b) is a sole trader if its undertaking is inherited or under a testament and its independent economic activity is extended by a person registered under that Law on a basis which grants the right to deduct a tax credit or by a person who is registered on a basis which grants the right to deduct a tax credit within a period of no later than 14th including the month following the sixth month of the date of death of the deceased person only for the goods and services available at the date of registration; 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115, para. 2 shall be added at the end of the period of 5 days from the date of the return, detention or settlement in any other way of retribution of the advance amount for the amount recovered, intercepted or otherwise settled. 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. In the case of a company which is not a resident of a Member State, the name of the company shall be entered in the register. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 6 and 9 the words "magnitine' or "optical' shall be replaced by "technical'; (b) the creation of para. 13: In the event of the death of a natural person or of a natural person, a sole trader, the declarations under para. 1 and 2 and the reporting registers under para. 3 for the last tax period under art. 87, para. 4 shall be submitted by the heirs or the testaments within 2 months of the acceptance of the inheritance, but no later than the 14th number including the month following the sixth month from the date of death of the successor. Further known circumstances shall be declared and the heirs shall submit new declarations under para. 1 and 2 and reporting registers under para. 3. A declaration made by one beneficiary also uses the other heirs. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) the creation of para. 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8: A person who has ceased registration under this Law shall notify in writing the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency for errors in the declarations submitted under art. 125, para. 1 and 2 and reporting registers under art. 124. Corrections shall be made after authorisation by the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency by submitting a new declaration and reporting registers for the relevant period within 14 days of receipt of the authorisation. (5) Person who has ceased registration under this law within 5 days of the establishment of the fact that no tax document under art. 112, para. 1 and in the cases referred to in Article 1. 116 shall notify in writing the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, which shall, upon assessment, issue an authorisation for the issue of the relevant tax document or refuse its issue. (6) A person on whom registration under this Law has been terminated shall notify in writing the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency in case of a change to the tax base or for the cancellation of a supply for which a tax document with a tax charge has been issued before the date of termination of its registration, in writing, the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, which shall, upon assessment, grant authorisation for the issue of the relevant tax document or refuse its issue. (7) Within 14 days of obtaining authorisation under para. 5 and 6 the person shall issue the relevant tax document and submit a declaration under art. 125, para. 1 and reporting registers under art. 124 for the period during which the relevant document was issued, in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (8) Where, before the date of termination of the registration of the person, a tax document having been issued with a tax charged for an advance payment received and within the period laid down in para. 7 the amount due in respect of the reduction of the tax base or for the spoil of the supply has not been returned to the recipient, seized or otherwise settled, the person shall issue the document under para. 6 within 14 days of the date of return, capture or settlement by other means of retribution for the amount returned, intercepted or otherwise settled and lodges a declaration under art. 125, para. 1 and reporting registers under art. 124 for the period during which the document was issued, in accordance with the Rules of Implementation of the Law. 35. Article 127 is amended as follows: Delivery carried out by a person acting on his behalf And on the other hand, Art. 127. (1) Where a taxable person (a missionary/truster) in the supply of goods or services acts on his own behalf and on a foreign account, the person shall be deemed to have received and provided the goods or services. (2) In the cases under para. 1 there are two deliveries: 1. delivery between the commissioner/confidence and the third party for which the date of occurrence of the tax event and the tax base of delivery are determined by the general rules of this Law; 2. delivery of the goods or service subject to delivery under point 2. 1, between the issuer/truster and the commissioner/truster, for which the date of occurrence of the tax event and the tax base of delivery are determined as follows: (a) the date of occurrence of the tax event for that supply shall be determined by the general rules of the Law, but shall not be later than the date of the occurrence of the tax event under point (a) when the commissioner/confidence acts at the expense of the issuer/confidence. 1, the tax base of delivery is the tax base of delivery under point 1. 1, reduced by the remuneration of the commissioner/confidence; (b) the date of occurrence of the tax event shall be determined by the general rules of the Law, but shall not be earlier than the date of the occurrence of the tax event under point (a). 1 and the tax base of delivery is equal to the tax base of delivery under point 1. 1, increased with the remuneration of the commissioner/confidence. 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 are created. 5 and 6: This Law requires the registration of an unpersonalised company in which a partner who is registered under that law is involved. (6) Registration under para. 5 is made with an application for registration within 14 days of the date of the contract establishing the non-personalised company which is considered to be the date of registration of the company under this Law. 37. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 132a: "Registration in succession" Art. 132a. (1) In the event of the death of a registered natural person or natural person registered under this Law, a sole trader whose undertaking is taken over by inheritance or by testament, where the independent economic activity of the deceased is extended by a person not registered under that Law and for which the conditions for compulsory registration under art. 96, para. 1, the person has the right to register under this Law. (2) The registration under para. 1 shall be made with an application for registration within 14 days of acceptance of the inheritance under art. 49 and 51 of the Heritage Act, but not later than the 14th including the month following the sixth month of the death of the successor. (3) The date of registration under this Law shall be considered as the date of service of the instrument of registration. (4) In the cases of registration under para. 1 the registration inventory of the assets available under art. 74, para. 2, p. 3 except those obtained on the basis of art. 10, para. 3 shall be drawn up at the date of registration under para. 3 and submitted no later than 45 days from the date of registration. 38. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136 (b) is replaced The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the supply of travel agents when they act on behalf and at the expense of another person. 39. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. 1 the words "magnitine' or "optical' are replaced by "technical'. 40. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "one month' shall be replaced by "30 days'; (b) To be created t. 3: "3." by being obliged, not using a fiscal device, or using a fiscal device that does not have a remote connection. 41. In the Additional Provisions: (a) in § 1: (aa) paragraph 13 is amended as follows: "13." The services are services related to the transmission, transmission or reception of signals, words, images and sounds or information of any kind by cable, radio, optical or other electromagnetic systems, including the associated transfer or surrender of the right to use the capacity for such transmission, transmission, transmission or reception, with the inclusion of the provision of access to global information networks and services listed in art. 6a of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013 of 7 October 2013 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards the place of supply of services (OB, L 284/1 of 26 October 2013)) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). (bb) point 14a is amended as follows: 14a. The services listed in art. 6b of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013 of 7 October 2013 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards the place of delivery of services. (c) create t. 82 and 83: "82." "Real estates" are listed in art. 13b of Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1042/2013 of 7 October 2013 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards the place of supply of services. 83. The amount to be reported shall be the amount to be reported in column 010 of the statement of profit or loss. (a) real estate under point (a) 82 and vehicles under point (a) 49, except for those referred to in point (h) and (b) other than the goods and services referred to in (a) which are or would be fixed assets within the meaning of the Corporate Income Tax Act with a value of acquisition, production or import equal to or greater than BGN 5000; (b) Paragraph 1a of the Additional Provisions shall be inserted. 9. Nine. Council Directive (EU) 2016/856 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax as regards the period of obligation to apply the minimum standard tax rate (OJ L 142/12 of 31 May 2016.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 42, 43, 44 and 45: .............................................................................. (1) For real estate available on 1 January 2016, the determination of the tax base under art. 27, para. 2 of the Value Added Tax Act and the adjustments to the used tax credit under art. 79a, para. 3, p. 1 of the same law, for the years following the year of entry into force of this law, shall be calculated as the 20-year period shall be counted as from the beginning of the year of the exercise of the right to tax credit. (2) For real estate under para. 1 for which the circumstances of the present article are present. 79, para. 8 of the Value Added Tax Act, registered persons may exercise the right to deduct a tax credit or to adjust (increased) the amount of the partial tax credit used by 30 June 2017 to issue a protocol by which: 1. increase the amount of the used partial tax credit to the amount determined according to the following formula (according to an application with a descriptive part): 2. where no tax credit has been deducted in the acquisition or construction of properties which have subsequently been used only for the provision of taxable supplies under art. 69 of the Value Added Tax Act, exercise the right to a tax credit of the amount determined according to the following formula (according to Annex in the report): (3) For other than real estate goods or services for which the circumstances of the previous art are present. 79, para. 8 of the Value Added Tax Act, registered persons may exercise the right to deduct a tax credit or to adjust (increased) the amount of the partial tax credit used by issuing by 30 June 2017 a protocol setting out: 1. increase the amount of the used partial tax credit to the amount determined according to the following formula( as applied in the law and its descriptive part): 2. where no tax credit has been deducted in the production, purchase, acquisition or import of goods or services which have subsequently been used only for the provision of taxable supplies under art. 69 of the Value Added Tax Act, exercise the right to a tax credit of an amount determined according to the following formula (as per the descriptive part applied in the report): (4) The right to deduct the tax credit under para. 2 and 3 shall be exercised by reflecting the record in the record of purchases and in the reference to the tax period during which the record was issued. (5) In the cases under para. 2 and 3 persons cancel the protocols under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Value Added Tax Act, issued until 31 December 2016 inclusive. For these protocols, art. 80, para. Seven and eight of the rules. § 43. Articles 79, 79a and 79b of the Value Added Tax Act shall not apply to goods and services to which the registered person has applied the previous art. 79, para. 6 and 7 of the same Law. § 44. For goods and services which are not fixed assets within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 83 of the Value Added Tax Act, available on 31 December 2016, including, no art. 79, para. 3 and 5, 79a and 79b of the same Law. § 45. Where a taxable person (a missionary/confidence) delivers goods or services on his own behalf and for a foreign account, and the tax event of delivery between the issuer/truster and the commissioner/truster arose until 31 December 2016, including, the provision of the previous article shall apply. 127 of the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u56	That's it. Statements under paragraphs 41 to 45 inclusive. I recall: paragraphs 42 to 45, including new paragraphs, which the Commission proposes to create. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski, Rumen Gechev, Mihail Mikov, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov, Georgi Gokov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission does not support this proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 10, against 32, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs number: 41 in the version of the Commission and the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 42 to 45 inclusive. Anblok, we vote paragraphs 41 to 45 inclusive. Vote 96 MPs: 86 against 7, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u57	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph to create § 41a. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Where, until the entry into force of this Law, an unpersonalised company has been established, not registered under the Value Added Tax Act, a person in which a partner is involved under the Value Added Tax Act, the company is obliged to submit an application for registration within one month of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u58	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 46 in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u59	Paragraph 42 "Proposition of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: In § 42 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31 is created a new item. 19 with the following text: 19. non-profit legal entities carrying out a public useful activity "food banking" within the meaning of the Food Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] I read it, you should have withdrawn it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u60	It's been withdrawn, we're not voting on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u61	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev, Mihail Mihov, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Gorov, Georgi Gokov and Zhelyo Boychev: The following amendments shall be made in § 42: (a) t. I'm out. (b) c. The following amendments shall be made: - The letter "b" is out. - the letter...... becomes the content of This is in the part of the unsupported proposal and supports the proposal under the letter "in". Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 47 and shall propose the following wording: ss ss s s s s s In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The submission of declarations by model under this law shall be carried out by electronic means. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 2 the words "CSD" shall be replaced by "CSD." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 para. 3 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1 upon the opening of an accounting error in the current year relating to the previous year for which an annual tax return and the statutory deadline for its submission has expired, the taxable person may, once within 30 September of the current year, adjust the tax financial result and the tax liability by submitting a new declaration. In the other cases under para. 1 The taxable person shall notify in writing the competent revenue authority which, within 30 days of receipt of the notification, shall take action to change the tax financial result and the obligation for the tax period concerned. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the title, the title shall be added at the end, and the reporting of corrective events shall be made available; (b) in the text after the words the financial result (s) shall be added to the text (s) as well as to corrective events within the meaning of the applicable accounting standards (s). 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A Annual Activity Report shall not be submitted by taxable persons who did not operate within the meaning of the Accounting Act during the tax period. (b) paragraph 5 is repealed. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 217 is The newly established taxable persons shall declare their choice under para. 3 for the year of their establishment with the annual tax return lodged for the same year. 7. All over the law, the words "National Standards for Financial Statements for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" are replaced by "National Accounting Standards." The Commission proposes to create new § 48 § 49 and § 50: ............... 48............................................................... Declarations on a template under the Corporate Income Tax Act for which the filing obligation arises after 31 December 2017 shall be submitted electronically. § 49. Taxable persons under the Corporate Income Tax Act shall not benefit from a discount from the annual corporate tax due under the repealed art. 92, para. 5 of the Law on the Annual Tax Declaration for 2017 § 50. In the event of the detection of accounting errors or other errors in 2017 and of corrective events within the meaning of the applicable accounting standards relating to 2016, the taxable person may, once by 30 September 2017, adjust the tax financial result and the tax liability by submitting a new declaration for 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u62	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal is related to the requirement that the annual declarations should be submitted only by electronic means. We offered this requirement to drop and remain the possibility that the Bulgarian business will have a small, medium, large opportunity to submit a declaration in paper form as well. The reason for this is that the Bulgarian business is not only in the big cities. There is one in small settlements where the Internet is not secure enough and the connections are not good enough. In the end, this is an opportunity that can benefit those who cannot handle electronic equipment, the Internet or do not have one. The confidence we have received from the revenue administration from the Commission is that this will be built as opportunities, with jobs being made available to the representatives of small and medium-sized businesses in particular, to be served and to submit their declarations. It would have been good if so far this had been proposed and presented that it was done and built, and the opportunities of these representatives of small and medium-sized businesses would not be limited. Just the assurances that this will happen, it's not enough for me. For these reasons, the Commission has decided to cancel the entry into force of these requirements not yet for the incomes of 2016 "2017," which we are somewhat in favour of, but we remain of the opinion that it is still very early for annual declarations to be submitted only by electronic means, even in 2018. "For incomes and profits in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u64	Any lines to Mr. Turnover? First line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u65	I would like to say to my colleagues that the National Revenue Agency Commission has explained to us that they have a special project in which to provide such a service in all their offices, so that those companies that do not have an electronic signature and have no opportunity to submit declarations to use the NRA service. However, we decided to postpone the introduction not in 2017, but in 2018, and in 2018, the idea of this postponement was to see how the project of the NRA works and at the end of 2018, when the declarations are submitted to 2017, to assess what part of companies that have remained, which submitted their declarations not electronically, but at the same time using the NRA's project and using the services that the NRA will provide. I think it's quite reasonable to leave that option. In the meantime, if we actually fail, we have time to cancel next year. But I think, speaking of digitalization, the road is that way. Moreover, the data shows that in practice most of their companies submit their declarations electronically. It's in their favor. First of all, because it happens very easily. Secondly, their administrative burden is reduced. Thirdly, there is control over the correctness of these declarations in the NRA software itself, and this prevents many errors and further rides.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u66	Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u67	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, let the companies decide for themselves what is better for them. I made an offer. Our proposal is the opposite: let the administration do its job, show the business that it is ready to take over and serve in places with local jobs, and then we will introduce this requirement. Otherwise, there is now a future uncertain event that could possibly happen. Not that I don't trust the National Revenue Agency, but let them do it, let them do their job, and then let's vote on this obligation for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u68	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? There aren't any. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Tarnovalyski, Gechev, Mihov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Boychev in the part where the Commission does not support it, namely in letters.................................................................................................................................................... We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 15 against 41, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 47 in the version of the Commission and the proposal of the same for new paragraphs with numbers 48, 49 and 50. We vote paragraphs 47 to 50 inclusive. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u69	Under § 43 under the importer.. a proposal from the MPs Slavov and Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 letter for the creation of a new para. 9 is deleted. The Commission shall support the proposals referred to in points 2 and 3 in general. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Turnovalyski, Gechev, Mihov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Boychev. Obviously, colleagues have no intention of fulfilling their promise and withdrawing it. I read the proposal in the unsupported part: The following amendments shall be made in § 43: (a) To be created t. 1a: 1a. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 18a: supposed relief for minimum incomes from employment relations Art. 18a (1) When determining the monthly tax base under art. 42, para. 3 for employment benefits, the same shall be reduced by the minimum monthly salary established for the respective tax year or period. (2) The annual tax base for employment benefits under art. 25 shall be defined as the sum of all income received from employment during the year, reduced by the sum of the minimum monthly salaries assigned to the country for the relevant tax year or for the corresponding period during which the taxable person received the employment income. (b) t. 4 is out. (c) c. 5, b. The following amendments and additions shall be made: - the introductory sentence changes to: 2 and 3: - a new para is being created. 2: The tax relief for minimum income from employment benefits shall be additionally enjoyed regardless of the use of other tax items. - the first-vote para. 2 becomes para. 3. (d) shall be established. 5a: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5a. Art. 25, para. 1 is amended as follows: The annual tax base for employment income shall be defined as the taxable income under art. 24 received by the taxable person during the tax year, the tax relief under art. 18a is reduced by compulsory insurance contributions withheld by the employer, which are at the expense of the natural person, by the order of the Social Insurance Code and by the Health Insurance Act, as well as by the compulsory insurance contributions paid abroad, which are at the expense of the natural person. (f) To be created t. 8a: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 8a. Art. 42 is amended as follows: Art. 42. (1) The advance tax on employment benefits shall be determined by the employer monthly on the basis of the paid monthly tax base or on the wages paid in the month concerned and other payments for the month concerned, including payments on a daily or hourly salary. (2) The monthly tax base shall be defined as the taxable income under art. 24 received for the month in question shall be reduced by compulsory insurance contributions withheld by the employer at the expense of the natural person, in accordance with the Social Security Code and the Health Insurance Act or for compulsory insurance abroad. The monthly tax base of self-insuring persons for employment benefits under § 1, item 1. 26 point (i) of the Additional Provisions shall be defined as the taxable income under art. 24 received for the month concerned shall be reduced by the advance contributions paid which the self-insuring person is obliged to make on his own account under the Social Security Code and the Health Insurance Act. (3) The monthly tax base shall also be reduced by the applicable tax reductions under Part Two, Chapter 4 of this Law. (4) The amount of tax due shall be determined according to the table applied in the report. (5) Regardless of the application of tax exemptions, the non-taxable minimum under para. 4 is increased by 15 per cent for the first child and by another 10 per cent for the second and third children until their age, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. An increase of the non-taxable minimum shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (6) The tax under para. 4 shall be withheld and paid by the employer upon payment of the monthly taxable income for the month concerned. In the case of daily or part-time payment, the tax shall be withheld after the sum of previous salaries for the month concerned exceeds the untaxable income from employment under para. 1. (7) Where only partial payments for the same month or for another month have been made in the corresponding month, the employer shall deduct and pay the tax under para. 4 fixed on the total amount of partial payments paid. (8) The tax under para. 1 "7" shall be imported within the time limits and in accordance with art. 65. (g) c. 9 the following amendments and additions are made: - the introductory sentence is changed to: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: - created b. (b) (b) (c) (c) (d) (e) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) When the difference under para. 1 shall not exceed 12 000 BGN, the amount of the advance tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall be multiplied by a tax rate of 10 per cent. If the difference by para. 1 exceeds 12 000 BGN, the amount of the advance tax due shall be determined according to the table of art. 48, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. - the creation of sentence two in para. 8 becomes b. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (h) create a t. 9a, 9b and 9c: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9a. Art. 44, para. 3 is amended as follows: When the difference under para. 1 for each month does not exceed 1000 BGN, including, the amount of the advance tax due is calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall be multiplied by a tax rate of 10 per cent. If the difference by para. 1 exceeds 1000 BGN, including, the amount of the advance tax due shall be determined as for up to 1000 BGN. income, including, multiplied by a tax rate of 10 per cent, and for the top over 1000 BGN. multiply by a tax rate of 15 per cent. In the final determination of the tax due, according to art. 48, para. 1 shall be deducted in advance and/or paid in the relevant tax year. c. 9b. Art. 44a, para. 1 is amended as follows: sc) The monetary income referred to in art. 35 shall be taxed in advance when the paying agent of the income is an undertaking or self-insuring entity. Where the income does not exceed BGN 1000, including, the amount of the advance tax due shall be determined by multiplying the income by a tax rate of 10 per cent. When the income exceeds BGN 1000, the advance tax is determined by multiplying the income up to BGN 1000, including, by a tax rate of 10 per cent and the income representing a top of BGN 1000 is multiplied by a rate of 15 per cent. In the final determination of the tax due, according to art. 48, para. 1 shall be deducted in advance and/or paid in the relevant tax year. c. 9c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the title is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of the advance tax under art. Art. 43, Art. Art. 44, Art. 44a and the amount of tax on the total annual tax base (b) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on income from business, income from rent or other retrievable provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources and on the total annual tax base under art. 17 shall be determined according to the following table (s) applied in the report; (c) the creation of para. 9, 10 and 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42. (10) If the person has not received employment benefits, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by BGN 2400. for the first child and with another 1,800 leva. for the second and third children until the age of age, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction is declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts tax, interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims shall be due for the non-payments and annual contributions. The proposal under the letters.................................................................................................. 20. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 51, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) points 20 and 21 are amended as follows: It's 20. the monetary and subject-matter gains resulting from participation in gambling organised by a licence issued under the Gambling Act or under the law of another Member State of the European Union or a State............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 21. Awards awarded in the form of an additional game or subject-matter gain with negligible value from entertainment machines within the meaning of the Gambling Act or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, or a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as subject-matter gains with negligible value from other random games, other than those referred to in paragraph 21. 20............................................................................................................. (bb) c. 22 the words as well as the words shall be deleted and the awards given to students with prominent gifts for participation in national and international Olympiads, competitions and competitions shall be added; (b) in para. 4 sentences are created second and third: "When the trading company subsequently made a sale, exchange or other reputable transfer of the property to the non-cash contribution, and consequently reduced its capital and made a payment (in cash or in kind) to the benefit of the person making the non-cash contribution, it is considered for tax purposes that the natural person......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In these cases, the income shall be considered to be acquired by the natural person on the date of the entry of the capital reduction in the Commercial Register and shall be taxed in accordance with art. 33, unless he is exempt from taxation by the order of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1, t. 3 the words "Center" "Centre" is replaced by "Century" for assisted "Century" is replaced by "Century" for assisted "Century" and "Centre" is replaced by "Century" for assisted "Centre" for assisted "Centre" for assisted "Centre" for assisted "Centre" is replaced by "Centre" for 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22d, para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." By 1 January of the tax year, the child has not reached an age; 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22e: supposed relief for non-cautionary payments Art. 22e. (1) Natural persons may benefit from tax relief for non-cash payments made during the year where the following conditions are at the same time: 1. the person has acquired during the year income subject to tax on the total annual tax base; 2. hundred percent of the monetary income by item. 1 are obtained by bank transfer; 3. the cash-free payments made by the person shall amount to 80 or over 80 per cent of the income by item. 1. (2) The tax relief under para. 1 is 1 percent of the tax due per year on the total annual tax base, but not more than 500 BGN. (3) The circumstances and conditions under para. 1 shall be declared by the person in the annual tax return under art. 50. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2 and 3: The tax relief shall be granted on condition that the taxable person does not have public obligations to be enforced at the date of submission of the annual tax return. (3) The documents under para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 8 and 9 shall not apply to the annual tax return when presented to the employer on the main employment relationship and the relief under art. 18, 20, 22, 22c and 22d were used in full in the order of art. 49, para. 3 and 4. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 29 is In the taxable income under para. 1 shall include income which, according to Art. 1. 11 were acquired during a period of tax under art. 14, para. 2 and which did not participate in the formation of the accounting financial result for the acquisition year but would participate in the formation of the accounting financial result for the current year if the person was taxed in accordance with art. 29a........................................................................................................... 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 5. The newly registered farmers shall declare the right of choice under para. 1 for the year of their registration in the annual tax return under art. 50 for the same year. (b) the creation of para. 6: After the expiry of the period referred to in para. 3 persons may: 1. continue to be taxed according to the chosen order, in this case it is not necessary to submit a new declaration under para. 4; 2. choose to be taxed according to the order of art. 29, exercising his right of choice in the declaration under para. 4 by 31 December of the previous year. c) the current para. 5 becomes para. 7. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 6 is created t. 11: "11." where the subject of a non-cash contribution to a trading company is shares and shares received against non-cash contributions made to another trading company, when selling or replacing newly acquired shares and shares, except for the cases referred to in art. 38, para. 7, the acquisition price is the documented cost of the acquisition of the property which was initially subject to a non-cash contribution if, at the date of its entry into the Commercial Register, the income from the sale or replacement of that property is taxed within the meaning of this law. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. The second sentence is created: "These persons shall pay the monthly contributions due for the months of January, February, March and April or the three-month advance due for the first quarter within the term of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments and additions are made: a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 shall pay the due tax on expenditure by 30 April of the following year, and in this case shall not apply art. 217, para. 2 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 4 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. a written declaration that, at the time of its submission to the employer, there are no public obligations to be enforced or that for the tax year it will submit an annual tax return. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." income subject to patent tax and/or tax on taxi transport of passengers under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, as well as on income under art. 13, para. 1, t. 29; (d) (bb) c. 3 at the beginning shall be added the due tax under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of (b) the creation of para. 9. The annual tax return referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 for the income of deceased persons may be submitted by heirs by law or by will, as well as by the testaments or by their legal representatives. The declaration submitted by one beneficiary shall also be used by the other successors. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." non-taxable income except those referred to in art. 13, para. 1, t. 29, and/or. 14. Article 53 is amended as follows: Date and manner of submission of the annual tax return Art. 53. (1) The annual tax return shall be lodged by 30 April of the year following the year of acquisition of the income. (2) When finding an error in the declared data, and circumstances, basis and defined obligations after the term under para. 1 taxable persons shall be entitled, once within 30 September of the year following the year of acquisition of the income, to make changes by submitting a new declaration. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 50, para. The 9-year tax return may be filed after the term under para. 1 but no later than 6 months after the discovery of the inheritance. (4) Income for which the heirs or the testaments have been informed after the expiry of the time limits under para. 1 and 3 shall be declared within one month of knowledge. In these cases, the tax due shall be revalued. (5) Where no declaration under art. 50, para. 9, the obligation may be established by an act referred to in Article 9. 106 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. (6) The persons who submit the annual tax return by 31 March of the following year by electronic means shall receive a discount of 5 percent on the tax on the income tax on the annual tax return, but not more than 1000 BGN, provided that they do not have public obligations to be enforced at the time of submission of the declaration and the import tax is paid within the period under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 3: In the cases referred to in art. 50, para. The 9th annual tax return shall be submitted to the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency at the last permanent address of the successor. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4; c) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1-3 is replaced by............................................................................................... One-four. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 is finally a comma and is added except in the cases referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 4. Where income is acquired by a resident natural person from a source abroad, the tax under art. 46 shall be submitted by 30 April of the year following the year of acquisition of the income and shall be declared in the annual tax return under art. 50. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 18. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. "Instructions" "Life" for the purposes of art. Art. 19, art. 24, para. 2, p. Art. 12 and Art. 28, para. 2, p. 1 are concluded by insurance companies authorised under the Insurance Code or by insurance undertakings having its registered office in a Member State of the European Union or in another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement operating under the conditions of the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services: (a) Life insurance which includes insurance only to reach a certain age, death insurance, insurance to reach a certain age or for an earlier death referred to in paragraph 1. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) Point 3 (d) of Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; (b) insurance with the payment of annuities (pension or rent) under point (c) 1 point (b) and (c) 3 point (b) of Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code. (b) c. 26, point (i) and (ii) shall finally be a comma and shall be added out of the cases referred to in art. 37, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (c) create a t. 62: ..62. For the purposes of Article 4 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/65/EU, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 13, p. 21 is a subjective profit, the market price of which is up to BGN 30 The Commission proposes to create new § 52 § 53 § 54 § 55 and § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In cases referred to in art. 53, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. § 53. The declaration referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 29a, para. 4 of the Law on income taxes of natural persons exercising the right to choose under art. 29a, para. 6, p. 2 shall be submitted for 2017 by 31 January 2017. § 54. The order of Art. 22d, para. 2, p. 2 of the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons also applies to the use of tax reliefs for 2016. § 55. The order of Art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on income taxes of natural persons shall also apply to the use of tax reliefs for 2016 with the submission of an annual tax return under art. 50 of the same law. § 56. The order of Art. 53, para. 6 of the Law on income taxes of natural persons shall also apply when declaring income for 2016 in the annual tax return under art. 50 of the same law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u70	Statements on the reported paragraphs? [[Reply: "There are speeches. "]] Because there are less than five minutes left, as is the time for the speech, after a break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u71	Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. The word for speech is Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are continuing with a very important text in the Bill. First, I'll start with the positive in it. I am pleased and grateful to the President of the Budget Committee for supporting us with the colleagues who have proposed that the introduction of the declaration of individuals be submitted only electronically and not in this form, that is to say, the possibility for individuals to submit their annual tax return, both electronically and in paper form, and for those who submit their declaration electronically, to have incentives. In this way to seek greater massity of filing tax returns. Further on, however, in the same paragraph, there are disturbing things, and I will first mention the proposals of my fellow Members on the left, I call on them to withdraw them, as they made commitments earlier, during the speeches and comments on the budget. I remember, we were debating with Mr. Gechev and he said that they would withdraw these proposals to remove the flat tax and introduce a progressive rate, because in a similar way a similar proposal is not made between the two readings of a bill amending another bill to be proposed in a third bill to remove the flat tax. Obviously, such serious legislative proposals need to pass the standard legislative path of public discussion, taking an opinion from all stakeholders and so on. To draw attention to their proposals in practice, they are fighting the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly's activities for mandatory impact assessment, which we do not see here. If this is done, we will see that, in fact, even in the years of the crisis - 2008-2009-2010, when the total amount of revenue in the treasury decreases because of the economic crisis, the only revenue that may be sustainable is the income from the flat tax, which shows that this is adequate and reasonable for Bulgaria tax, which works well, collects more revenue in the treasury, brightens up a large part of the income that was received before in the dark. Apparently, people think it's fair and pay for it. Once again, I call on you to withdraw it, and if you do not withdraw it, I believe that we should vote against such proposals. The last thing I want to pay attention to and on which the Commission has not supported us is the so-called tax calm. I have already spoken about this tax once, at the first reading, and I have noted that the way it is offered is extremely unfair. At the time, my colleagues in the Budget Committee opposed me to the fact that it was actually voluntary, and I stress the word 'voluntarily', the filing of a tax return by the heirs of a deceased person who, in the year he died, received some income. Colleagues, note what is happening from our submitted report by the Commission, that is, the texts that are offered to us to be supported. In the § 51 in question, if you look at t. 14 as regards Art. 53, para. 5, there is said that if such a voluntary declaration is not filed, a revision of the person may be carried out under the order of the PDK, which for me quite seriously changes the concept of voluntaryity. Obviously, if you don't file a statement, there's a danger of audit. I believe that any sane thinking taxpayer would prefer to have filed the declaration. I mean, the element of volunteering for me is off the table. Once again, however, I return you to the basic point in this tax. Again, is the question right and is it fair in a modern society that a person received during the current year by consummating some of them, most likely half of them ate, drank, consumed, consumed, left behind something material, for example, to buy a car and some asset that the heirs would receive and have a reason to actually invest, for these incomes we would bet the heirs of the deceased person for what they had spent the same year in life?! This principle is absolutely unacceptable to me for our current tax legislation. To tell you the truth, it reminds me a little of the years of feudalism when children paid for all the debts their mothers and fathers and so on. The modern approach to taxes in a modern society is the obligation to be paid by the person who received the income and consumed it and not by its heirs who are already paying the tax on the property they receive. Here they are introduced a practically another tax, which is absolutely unfair. I suggest you back us up on this proposal to drop the norm of para. 9. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in the alternative, if we are not supported, I am making an editorial proposal on the Commission's report in § 51, p. 14 concerning Art. 53, para. 5 - The New Act. 5 which I have told you that if the voluntary declaration is not filed, then a DODK revision will follow. At least it will be removed so that we do not scare people. I'll give you the proposal in writing, Madam President. It's about art. 53, para. Five, new. She'll be wiped out. In other words, this paragraph is not necessary at all. Currently, DOK provides for a general order to establish similar obligations that follow an exlegation from DODK and here we do not need to write explicitly something that scares people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u73	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to say immediately that I am absolutely solidarity with the proposal of colleague Slavov for dropping out of para. 5. There are many reasons, but knowing in what coup d'état the NRA interprets such texts, I can imagine what will follow from there. I would like to stress that to this day, I have not received an answer from the NRA................................................................................................................................. I just wrote you another letter. I hope to receive an answer within three days, as it is important in relation to the adoption of the 2017 budget. This is about the gentlemen and ladies of the NRA. Regarding the proposals of BSP colleagues. My fellow Members, I understand the logic and philosophy of your proposal, and in my opinion, it should be in the following order.......................... that the revenue in the corporate tax budget can be a billion and 900 million and three billion and something should be revenue from individuals. I absolutely agree that this ratio exhales and many things lame in it. I'm gonna take another bad look at the NRA. It turns out that in Bulgaria, for example, the fuel business is a losing business. As early as 2014, we raised the question that a company in the last six or seven years has made 56 billion incomes. BGN, pay attention, 56 billion. lv.! Earnings zero. Tax zero. That is, in Bulgaria, the fuel business is a loss business, this business is lost and the state does not receive any taxes in this direction. So far, there may be coincidences with BSP colleagues on these proposals. However, I do not understand why your intentions are not directed precisely at those who make 50-60 billion revenue, but report zero profit and zero corporate tax, but are aimed at burying the middle class in Bulgaria and turning into a major taxpayer? What you are proposing, fellow Members, with your scale, is precisely the middle class to bear the basic tax burden, which, I believe, is an incorrect policy and cannot be supported by us. Loading up a part that has been able to achieve a standard I don't even know if we can talk about the middle class in Bulgaria, given that more than 50% of the Bulgarian population lives in conditions of surviving poverty. Over 50%! The government of GERB 1 has had the report since 2012. The interesting thing is that it has received the green light from the European Commission, and things have ended there. I don't understand why you want this little middle class, which is still some kind of engine in our society, to turn it into a major payer? What are your motives exactly for her paying? Why don't you take a look, for example, until recently a party colleague of yours was in the management body of one of these oil companies, and let's see why you don't claim to collect the money there? Why are these companies implementing losing activities and not giving up? That's the more interesting question. I personally will not support your proposal because it is unmotivated and is against the middle class in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u75	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u76	Mrs. Chairman! I would like to begin with my disturbance this week BSP said that they will not have such a proposal, but actually have one. Political forces should keep their word for at least the given week, not to mention further events, months. You should withdraw it. Most importantly, fellow Members! If you introduce progressive taxation, there is a huge risk that you will collect less revenue in the budget. I'm telling you this, let him get into the transcripts. If in the future you win a given election, you will enter it, and we will see together the result of this progressive taxation. The huge risk is that the profits will fall. In the period 2008 - 2010, when there was a global financial crisis, honourable Members, tax revenues in the Bulgarian budget fell, there was a sharp decline. Only income from total income tax, from flat tax, of those 10%, only they increased throughout the global financial crisis in 2008 - 2010, due to the very strong voluntary collection, due to the incentive the middle class, the working person to pay their taxes, not to hide. Because hiding in this tax system, as we have now, is more expensive than paying. Hiding is an expense. Hiding is invoices, accountants, risk getting caught by the IRS. The current system stimulates voluntary collection, so it's so good. Colleagues, offer this when you win the election. But together we'll see the result and make sure you weren't right. You'll get less revenue, you'll fail in the revenue section. Last line to BSP: if so many BSP colleagues want to raise revenue in the budget, why, when you were managing Plamen Oresharski, did you remove the measuring instruments from some oil bases? Why did you take them off? I understand that you can't read their data properly, and now you claim to want to collect revenue in the budget, it seems like an inconsistent and unfair position. Dear colleagues, the introduction of a 10% flat tax is one of the most successful reforms in the new history of Bulgaria. How is the success of a reform measured? It's very simple to measure your income. Revenues were growing steadily even, as I said, during the period of the global financial crisis. So something that works well and is fair and fair, and stimulates people to two things: to work more and pay their taxes -- that's optimal and reasonable, I'd say, taxation. I remain with the slight hope that the BSP will keep its word at least this week and withdraw this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u77	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Mr. Gechev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dimitrov, I am making the line to prevent misleading public opinion with the following facts. Firstly, it would be absurd to agree with your conclusion that progressive taxation leads to lower budget costs. There is no developed country in the world and the rapidly developing country which, under progressive taxation, no longer collects. What are the facts? Countries with progressive taxation, colleague, enter the Internet, statistically collect: France's up to 57% of gross domestic product are budget revenues, the share because the difference between revenue and expenditure is only the deficit, if any. The United States of America, Switzerland, Italy, not to list them - 180 countries - UN member states. What do you mean? That the governments of these countries haven't heard from you, Mr. Dimitrov, and they don't know they're losing billions?! This is ridiculous! Secondly, statistically it has been proven that Bulgaria is not at all higher income on flat tax. Read the publications and statistics. When you consider economic growth and inflation in 2009 - 2010 - you will see that the revenues are less. But even if you don't think about it, colleague, are budget revenues 38% of gross domestic product at the moment? How will you prove that 38% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product is more than the French progressive tax, which is 57% of the gross domestic product? Something's not right. It's a definite question. Statistics, the world practice is absolutely.. Revenues under progressive taxation are higher. I must agree that there is no point in making progressive taxation if you do not increase revenue in order to stimulate investment and social programmes through a public-private partnership. I will end with this: stop with the other argument the first, contradicts common sense and world statistics. The second for foreign investors. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Colleague, in progressive taxation, were foreign investments 9 billion? Do you read statistics? Now at 10%, how many are there? Thirty-eight percent less than last year, we're looking at a billion and a half. [[Heckling]] If 9 billion is less than a billion and a half, then I don't know much about arithmetic. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u79	Second line? Mr. Bayraktarov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Dimitrov, you are a young man, you really have forgotten a perfect investment programme in 1997, which started with the establishment of a bank consolidation company with a boss a former prime minister. You are young, you do not know these things, but the result of this investment program with one Minister of Economy led to the bankruptcy of almost all Bulgarian banks and the robbing of several hundreds of billion savings of Bulgarian citizens. That is, in just 24 hours, they became poor men with a dozen pennies in their accounts. This is the investment program. By the way, I can also give you an example with the investment programme from 2013-2014: first quarter Of that, 128 million of offshore companies. Congratulations on your investment! I am making this line for you so that you can distinguish between such investments, such a kind of unfounded proposals, in which no control mechanism is even provided for the most elementary. Mechanism! It's important to talk here, bragging about nonsense, bragging about professor titles that don't have any coverage. That's the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u81	Third line, Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u82	Colleague Dimitrov, I would like to make you a recommendation: report to the Chamber the credit of the BSP for the introduction of the flat tax and the arguments they had at the time to introduce it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u83	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u84	Colleagues, thanks for the lines. Of course, I'll start with Mr. Gechev. Yes, indeed BSP introduced the flat tax on personal income, although it is very interesting, Mr. Veselinov, that we made similar proposals. They were rejected. When BSP did, they supported theirs. That's the truth about history. Mr. Gechev... [[The MP Rumen Gechev spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]] Please do not distract Mr. Gechev, to hear two things, so that we do not have the same debate, the second time, colleagues. It is not correct and it is extremely manipulative to mix total revenue in the budget or redistribution with revenue from just one tax. Therefore, Mr. Gechev, there are both direct and indirect taxes, both form the redistribution and it is wrong to claim that there is a direct parallel between the total redistribution and the income of just one tax. There are dozens of types of taxes. This is wrong, wrong manipulation. You shouldn't talk about this in front of students either, because it's not true. Next, see income from the flat income tax. They, as I said, are growing throughout the whole period, even when income from other taxes during the global financial crisis is falling. Look at this! It's a fact! You're arguing with him, and we shouldn't have an argument about the facts. They're supposed to be a confessional truth, an obvious truth. Next, I see BSP's huge desire to increase taxes on the middle class. By the way, thank you, colleagues, for saying so from now on. I want you to go to elections with this message that BSP will benefit with more middle class in Bulgaria. It's fair, as you say it well now, it's good to have all the media to hear it, to understand it. There are parliamentary elections coming, and it's good that you're telling each other now. That in some sense is more honest. Go with this message in elections, say that you want to tax the middle class with higher progressive taxation and let the Bulgarian citizens judge whether our arguments were more accurate and more correct or yours. Finally, to colleague Bajraktarov. Colleague, I'm young, but I don't remember youth, as the poet says. [[Noise and glad tidings.]] I want to tell you that, unfortunately, the period 1995, 1996 and all the characters of BSP are sealed in our consciousness. That's why we feel this horror at every suggestion they make. I know that they can still bankrupt Bulgaria. They are always ready to bankrupt Bulgaria, at any time available on this topic. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Therefore, honourable Members, we pay very serious attention to their proposals and we are always so worried when they want to introduce progressive taxation, they want to tax more the middle class and so on. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yanchev.]] Thank you for your lines. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u85	Mr. Gechev, you will have the opportunity to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u86	And finally, because Mr. Gechev is very insistent, didn't you promise to withdraw him, people? You didn't promise to withdraw your proposal for progressive taxation? Keep your word this week at least! For at least a week, keep your promise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u87	I ask you will you rob Bulgaria again?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u88	Any other MPs? Mr. Georg Georgiev. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] Mr. Gechev, I remind you that you can take the floor and present your arguments there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u89	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would be a little more realistic. BSP, if you keep your word for one day, not for one week, just for one day, Cornelia Ninova and BSP not to lie and what they said to do it. The exact words were that changes to the tax laws would be made if the BSP were in power and ruling. As far as I know, the BSP is not in power yet, and as far as I can see from everything they're doing, they won't be in power. [[Applause from GERB, noise and glad tidings.]] So these changes, which they are trying to push through at the moment, are not only of questionable economic and social impact, but are also the least unnecessary for the budget in the future. BSP talked for a very long time about the need for a debate on tax laws. So where was your debate, guys? Have any of you bothered to see what the impact of the change of tax laws will be on Bulgaria's budget and that the progressive income tax at this time risks next year to bankrupt the state? Surely for you this does not represent much of a problem, but I think you should consider at least two things. The first is that you encourage not to work. By giving a lower rate for low incomes, you don't really encourage people to keep trying, increase their incomes and increase their productivity. Secondly, you are punishing not only the middle class, but also people who are high-income people who honestly and respectfully pay their taxes, earn their money and invest them back in the country. Thirdly, I think that when you go out on this stage and make some high-pitched address to the Bulgarians, you should do it with some consciousness. You can't do this with the minds of people who just a year and a half ago broke a bank. I will not even return to 1996-1997 because I can still be accused of not remembering this period, but I certainly remember 2013 and 2014, when you bankrupted KTB and the Oresharski cabinet happened another robbery of the Bulgarian people, which was once again paid by Borisov's government by 3.5 billion. lv. So, when you make such statements, please stick to your words once and a second time "take account of what you are talking about, because it seems to me that from all this talk you are producing, you are not giving yourself any account. We just saw here an economics professor explain to us how 38% less than 9 billion makes a billion. These are the kind of people who propose a change in the tax system. This can't be serious. You can't even count, dear colleagues. So at least learn math and then make changes to tax laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u90	A line to Mr. Georgiev? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To the colleague who spoke before me and to all of GERB's parliamentary group. Dear colleagues,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u92	The line is only to the speaker who spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u93	Consider it an emancipation of the entire group, as it speaks...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u94	I take it you want a statement on behalf of the group, Mr. Iankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u95	No, no, no, I have a line, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u96	Okay, so we're going to talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u97	Please do not interrupt me and do not take the opportunity to take away the time that is determined for a line. In the last two years he has ruled your party and you have come to the point that in the government of your leader, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, there will be charges of acting minister. Maybe there'll be a second acting minister?! You are probably not aware that there are currently shares under the management of the prosecution and in the institutions that have to observe order, for collection, there are currently arrests. In Varna there are seven arrested in the State Car Inspection. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Those institutions that respect tax collection have worked only in these two years as a repressive apparatus of the state, of your country. When there are working institutions and rules, then expect there to be well-founded Bulgarian citizens who are not under pressure, not through repression will import their taxes and there will be more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u98	Second line? I won't. Would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u99	It is obvious that some colleagues are very well acquainted with the work of the Prosecutor's Office "too well familiar," but this speaks only of one thing, dear Mr. Iankov, that the relevant institutions are doing their job.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u100	We're familiar with the media!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u101	It is quite puzzling that there are no BSP politicians against whom there are no such investigations and the years back show that there are reasons for such investigations. Your line does not recognise it as an accusation, but rather as a self-disclosure, rather as a confession in that you actually see that at the moment the state and all its bodies are working well and precisely from the effective work of the revenue collection agencies are those huge surpluses that we have in the budget at the moment and which allow the state to spend more and invest in different directions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u102	What were your loans for? What were your loans for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u103	Then, when you have a similar surplus, then, when you do not have to put the state in over-confidence, as you did in 2013, then you will be able to come out and talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u104	Sixteen billion you took!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u105	We didn't take them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u106	Reform, colleagues, and programs, in support... And yesterday, by the way, you announced yourself, for which I am glad you have realized what the benefit is, are done when the government has a targeted and consistent policy, and this policy does not owe the state, does not fail its banks, does not shake its budget stability and does not put it in a spiral of debts and does not isolate it externally, as you can do, does not stop its EU funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u107	Where's the 16 billion?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u108	The more you lie, the more people will be able to see your true self, not that it has changed, but you each put in a new shade. Each time you have some new reading of the lies you've told. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I therefore say that for BSP will be an achievement if you do not lie to a single day not all week, you cannot hold back for a week, but at least one day stand by your word and do what you have said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u109	Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Mikhail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, with such qualifications you are lying, stealing, accusing, we have come to what is to come of Bulgarian parliamentaryism over the next one or two years. The proposals tabled concern a fundamental question of the justice of taxation, justice which, worldwide with small exceptions, among which is Bulgaria, and justice, which Bulgarian citizens understand does not exist. This is Mr. Dimitrov talking about middle class. Forty per cent of Bulgarian citizens live at risk of poverty and they have several outcomes. The most acceptable option for them is to migrate to countries with progressive taxation, to countries where more income from labour remains available. Since the standard accusation that we have participated in the introduction of the progressive tax is always the easiest argument, yes, and it has been seen that since then this has not given that development to the country, that increase in labour productivity, has given a need for new debts. It is certain that there is a period in which taxes in Bulgaria will have to be raised in order to return the loans that the government of GERB withdrew, only then the question arises: will everyone pay back equally again? The big question being posed with progressive taxation is about returning justice to taxation. Of course, not just the tax, but the income tax. The same is the situation with other taxes in Bulgaria and although we were constantly bragging about how we have the lowest taxes, Bulgaria did not become a place where foreign investors invest diligently as in many other countries where taxation is progressive. All these arguments are clear that there is no hearing in today's National Assembly as far as the majority is right. This problem will be a primary problem in the next National Assembly because people can be temporarily lied to that the majority system will improve their lives, but they will permanently accumulate discontent with injustice, including tax injustice in taxing incomes. When talking about the middle class in Bulgaria, it is nice to say who are the people in the middle class. In fact, the proposed proposal will result in an increase in taxes of persons with incomes above BGN 1,400. monthly. [[Noise and lines.]] Over! To 1,400 leva. people need to increase the available income because they will continue to choose Terminal 2, they will continue to choose to work in countries where there is progressive taxation in both Britain and Germany and France and Italy, where the Bulgarian goes to work, there is progressive taxation there. Progressive taxation leaves it much more available income and it gives a sense of justice in society. The flat tax will continue to generate this abstract discontent from politics, from governance and from institutions. I know today's discussion doesn't really matter. I know that there is a majority to reject this decision, at the same time I am very aware, and I think that a large part of those who will vote against it, that in the next few years it will happen. There's no way out of this. Tales, rhetoric, can't change people's sense of injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u111	First line "Iskren Veselinov," followed by Evgeni Stoev, third line "Mr. Slavov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u112	Dear Mr. Mikov, dear colleagues! We're not talking about some abstract justice here. Here we are talking about a concrete proposal, which has an introduced tax scale, which starts at 1000 BGN. Up. Yeah, it's fair, and the Patriotic Front has been supporting, for example, an indeterminate minimum. It's not fair to a guy who gets 1,000 levs. To get him 50 leva. A month, because you think he's very rich. Your rock isn't worth it. It's the truth. We're not talking about justice. We're talking about an understatement. There she is. [[shows on tablet]] Here's the offer, inform yourself. For this reason, there is no chance of being supported because it is indeed a hit on average income. We will not support this proposal from the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u113	Second line, Mr. Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u114	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Mikov, you were President of the National Assembly 2013 and managed Bulgaria. You could have quite calmly then made your proposals and passed them through the National Assembly and not now, when you are 38 people, to change the legislation and the State Budget Act for 2017. I have another question for you: with what arguments did you introduce the flat tax in 2008? I want, even if possible, to remove printouts and transcripts, to see with what arguments you defended the better system and better taxation and better collection of flat tax. We're talking about 2008, when you introduced him. And the other thing, when you talk about the French system, I have to tell you that Gerard Depardieu became a Russian by what happened to him because rich people are not simple people. They always go there and you should normally know that no one anywhere in the world likes to pay taxes. When the tax is flat, fair, this increases the payment of taxes as it is now and we have a high collection rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u115	Mr. Slavov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mikov, I will be objective and I will remind you that when you were President of the BSP, such a proposal was made again from the left, but was made in the correct way, as a separate bill which was examined by the Chamber and was rejected. Now, however, I see and hope that you will also take the attitude...................................................................................... Although he basically came out through the back entrances. But let's get him in the back door now! You say that 40% of the country's people live in poverty, so let's raise taxes. Mr. Mikov, you raise taxes, not 40, but 80% will start living poor, because you will get the money from the rest of the people who produce and generate a national product. And I ask you: by taking the money from them, given that more than 70% is now a private sector in Bulgaria, how do you think this money will go to them? The state is no longer the biggest employer to raise wages. Incomes rise by raising wages, increasing productivity and so on. I mean, what you're proposing is just not gonna happen, and you're gonna take the money from even more people from a large group of the population. You say: investments didn't grow. Why don't you look at when the flat tax was introduced, what was the size of the investments, whether there was growth in the years of economic boom and that investments were growing, including because of the flat tax introduced. However, the fact that Bulgaria has not solved its lasting problems - corruption, judicial system, imperfection in legislation, the subsequent economic crisis - obviously gave a negative result, but not the flat tax is your fault, because you have also managed, and the problems with corruption and the judiciary are sitting. Finally, I will end up with what my colleague hinted at how Gerard Depardillo decided to become Russian, more precisely to obtain Russian citizenship. Mr. Mikov, there's a flat tax in Russia as well. You often give Russia as a benchmark for governance, democracy and so on. People have a flat tax. Why do you want to remove it? Why do you want to remove it, here, in Russia they have introduced it, they think it works well and they keep it. And now you want to remove it in Bulgaria. Why don't you guys take a quick look at this? You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u117	A hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mutually excluded eclectic reasoning is difficult to motivate that flat tax is fair, it is difficult to motivate that it gives perspective for economic development and for a more socio-economic society. The famous Gerard Depardillo why not come to Bulgaria as the tax is lower and there is no inheritance tax and the corporate tax... But it is good that the Bulgarian right likes something in Russia too. After all, this is a rare exception and it should be admired sometimes, although it is quite unserious. Otherwise, Mr. Slavov, this is about something else in relations with Russia. Obviously, you have been superficially familiar with the left's claims on these matters. The big question is another: why is the proposal made here? Because your government, ladies and gentlemen, does not laugh, and your majority also, to put a serious discussion on the tabled bill. It has been repeatedly rejected in the Chamber, and because the government has introduced with this trick the Law on excises and tax warehouses to change all other tax laws. Now that's simple, Mr. Slavov. If you look at the fact that the government hasn't introduced any other laws, but it changes through this one, it gives you an answer as to why we did it that way. But the big question is: everyone here crying for the middle class MPs: are we the middle class or are you afraid that the income over BGN 1500. The MP's gonna bet on it? To my colleague from the Patriotic Front, I just have to say: up to BGN 1,400. People get more income. The scale starts at 1,000, but they get more than in current taxation. To 1,400 leva. income. And here comes the question: when you talk so much about the middle class, what is the middle class? To those who receive income 10, 20, 30, 50 thousand. lv. A month? This is the middle class criterion, according to the majority of today's National Assembly. For us, the middle class criterion is two average wages for the country. Those who receive under BGN 1,400 must be repaid in order to have income to return through indirect taxation, because these people do not shop for luxury goods, they shop for goods of primary need. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What about the others? Yes, I know the majority is thinking about others today, but I am convinced that the majority outside the National Assembly will ask for another in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u119	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I can't see. The debates are closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov in the part where he is not supported and it is not supported by this. 1. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 106 MPs: 19 against 40, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Tarnovalyski, Gechev, Mikov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Zhelyo Boychev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 105 MPs: 20, against 67, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. In his speech Mr. Martin Dimitrov made an alternative proposal in the text of the Commission on § 51, i.e. 14 This is on page 88 of the report for the amendment of art. 53, offers para. 5 to be obliterated, and it says: "Al." 5 where no declaration under art. 50, para. 9, the obligation may be established by an act referred to in Article 9. 106 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. I put to the vote Mr. Dimitrov's proposal, made in the Chamber, to reject para. 5. They voted 111 MPs: 21, against 44, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u120	Mrs. Chairman! I am doing a re-voting procedure because I think that colleagues from GERB do not understand what this paragraph actually says. [[GERB lines.]] Yes, colleagues, you definitely misunderstand! The alineia, formulated in this way, actually forces people to give up an inheritance. I can guarantee you that. If you want, we will make a reference in a year to see how much inheritance refusals will have increased, because this is not directed to the deceased, but to their heirs, who very often do not know what this is about. This is perfectly normal in these dynamic times! Imagine, two million people live outside the country, and their parents are here. Guess how much people are aware of abroad what's going on here! This is what this text provides. Moreover, such a process is observed: for this reason, applications for inheritance in regional courts have already increased by about 20%. You can make a reference: 20%! There are fellow lawyers here and the Legal Committee can make such a reference. That's what the text is all about. There is no problem in general order to establish both obligations and everything else, and not to force people to submit a declaration. What kind of statement would the man make when he doesn't even know what his father and his mother have been doing that he may not have seen in years?! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u121	It's a re-vote. They voted 104 MPs: 23, Against 34, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 51 in the version of the Commission, together with the new paragraphs 52 to 56 inclusive. Vote 100 MPs: 82 against 14, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u122	According to § 44 the proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 44, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... The Law on Local Taxes and Fees (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is replaced by the In the case of concession, the taxable person is liable. In the case of a concession for extraction, a taxable person shall be the owner, except where, for the benefit of the concession holder, a right of use on land or the relevant part thereof has been established. 2. In Chapter 3, Section VII is created. 115a: Art. 115a. (1) The amount of the fee for each administrative service shall correspond to the costs of the municipality to provide the service concerned, including the necessary material and technical costs and all administrative costs for the performance of the duties of officials in view of their qualifications and working hours spent. (2) The administrative expenses under para. 1 shall not exceed 20 per cent of the fee. 3. In Annex 2 to art. 3, para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 4. In the Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG...): (a) in § 13 the words (b) in § 13a, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u123	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 57 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u124	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall be reflected in its systematic place such as this. 4 in § 57 and proposes that § 45 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u125	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 78 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u126	According to § 46 the proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal for points 2 and 3 and the proposal for points 3. Six has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Act on Accounting (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) c. 1 a comma shall be finally placed and added to the list of branches of foreign traders. (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." the consortiums within the meaning of the Commercial Law, companies under the Law on Obligations and Contracts, joint ventures and other associations based on contractual relations under which the parties have rights to net assets; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 is The categories of enterprise groups may also be determined on the basis of the sum of the indicator values according to the individual annual financial statements of the group entities drawn up by 31 December of the current reporting period. In this case, when determining the category of the group, the thresholds for the carrying amount of assets and net sales income under para. 2, para. 3 and 4 increased by 20 per cent. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, p. 2 after the words................................................................................................ 4. Article 67 shall be repealed. 5. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 30: 30. For the purposes of art. 17, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 37, para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. (a) during the reporting period, no transactions under art. 1, para. 1 of the Commercial Law; (b) during the reporting period, no conditions have arisen to recognise income under the Accounting Act and applicable accounting standards; (c) have not carried out any activity relating to investments, production and/or sale; (d) have not carried out any purchase of goods and services in order to obtain income and profits. According to § 47, a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, § 47 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Tarnovalyski, Gechev and a group of MPs - § 47 - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u127	Statements under paragraphs 58 and 59? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u128	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to ask you to support us with colleague Dimitrov. I see other colleagues have made such an offer. The specific text concerns the Law on the limitation of cash payments and the reduction of the existing threshold of 10 thousand. BGN, over which it is required to be paid on a bank basis. It should be reduced to 5000 BGN. Many times here in this room, we have discussed that such a measure is excessive, inadequate and will create significant difficulties for people. A very common example was the one with the most massive car of an old car, which is bought in the country, which is in the order of 6.. 7 thousand. lv. If this thing is accepted now, it means that these people won't be able to make the deal the way they're used to the notary, sign the purchase-sale contract, pay off, and everything will have to end, and they'll also have to deal with a bank, bank transfers, clarify each other's relationship when they sign the contract, when the amount is transferred by bank transfer, whether it has arrived in the other account and so on. These are very significant difficulties that we are going to create for these people. It seems to me that absolutely unwarranted such a thing is being proposed. Similar proposals were made last year by the Revenue Agency and we rejected them. I suggest that you support us now and that this paragraph be dismissed because it really is excessive. Bringing it down to 5,000. lv. The border, we're already going to an unreasonable extreme. The other, which is.. in the texts already adopted, we have provided enough incentives to pay without cash, including additional tax benefits for such people and so on. Let us look for the promotion of non-cash pay, not on the path of incentives, and not on the path of sanctions, which would practically happen if this text were adopted. And one last thing. I hope they hear me here very carefully, above all, my fellow lawyers. Thus adopted this text, will directly fight with the texts of the Law on Notary and Notary Activities, where it is said that real estate transactions over 10,000. lv. are carried out by bank transfer. This Law in this case is not amended; it is a special Law. What's going to happen? In terms of real estate, it will be able to pay up to 10,000. lv. In cash, but for everything else, it won't be possible if the amount exceeds $5,000. lv. And here I'm asking you: what is actually more weighty about buying real estate or buying an old car? Why would an old car have to deal with these complex procedures with banks and so on, and the real estate will be able to go up to 10,000. lv. to pay in cash? It's very unthinkable to me. Once again, it's excessive, and it's going to cause people extremely much trouble. I don't see what revenue or contribution the Revenue Administration will benefit from. That's why I suggest we reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u129	A line to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the gentlemen Slavov and Dimitrov, which is identical with the proposal of the gentlemen Turnovalyski, Gechev, Mikov, Georgiev, Gorov, Gokov and Boychev for the deletion of § 47 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 68 against 6, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. That is, § 47 is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u130	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u131	There's no need to overreact!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u132	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u133	Please, Madam President, if you would like to re-vote this proposal, because perhaps some of your fellow Members did not understand, and I have seen that other Members are currently entering the Chamber. So I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u134	Revoting! They voted 91 MPs: 64, against 7, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 47 by importer is rejected. I shall put to the vote § 58 on the report and in the version of the Commission. This is § 46 by importer which becomes § 58 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 73, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 47 is rejected and does not exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u135	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u136	He'll be §59.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u137	............... 59................................................................... In the Law on Real Estate Credits of Consumers (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 74, para. 1 after the words 52, 54, 55 Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 60: ........................................................ In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113 is created. 6: The head of the audit shall be the body of revenue among those referred to in art. 7, para. 1, t. 4 of the National Revenue Agency Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 118. 2 is ............... 48............................................................... The Law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2017 and shall apply from 1 January 2017. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 62, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2017, with the exception of § 47. 1 et c. 5 (b) § 48 and § 49, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u138	Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u139	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the group, I'd like a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u140	I didn't call a vote. Are there any statements on the reported texts? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Now you can make your request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u141	I'm asking for a name check on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u142	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please, the lists. (Next name check.) Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov- absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- missing Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- here Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ilian Sashov Todorov- absent Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov- here Mihail Raykov Mikov- here Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- absent Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza- absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih-here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- here Stefan Stynov Zhelev- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- absent Hristo Grudev Grudev here. Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov- here Additional login: Valentin Kasabov, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Krasimir Yankov, Stefan Danailov, I announced it, Nikolay Alexandrov, Valeri Simeonov, Magdalena Tasheva and Krasimir Karakachanov. There's a quorum. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote paragraphs with the number of the Commission report: § 60, which becomes § 59; § 61, which becomes § 60; § 62, which becomes § 61. We vote on the three paragraphs. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 8. The proposal is adopted, with this at second reading and discussed and voted draft. According to our programme as point two, we should discuss: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATEMENT OF THE COMMUNICTIC REGION FOR CRIMINAL, No 654-01-8. It was introduced on 27 January 2016 by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The draft is allocated to three committees: the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, and the Committee on Education and Science, there are no reports received. On behalf of the importers, who will propose the bill? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! I will present the Bill very briefly, and this was largely done by my colleague Metodi Andreev, who spoke this morning on whose proposal this item was included on the agenda. In fact, this is the third attempt to examine this important bill. It is hardly necessary to recall what happened the previous two times and how with very incorrect, ill-intentioned practices a way is sought to postpone, delay and so on, i.e. not to have the debate on this bill happen. I also appeal to my fellow Members on the left, so that they can really be constructive and say in the debate if there is anything that disturbs them, rather than looking for procedural catch-ups, so that there is no debate and discussion on the substance of the proposed bill. Dear colleagues, as you all know, since 2000, there has been an adopted Law declaring the communist regime in the Republic of Bulgaria criminal. He has been acting for 16 years and what we have proposed with colleagues is practically an addition to this Law, an improvement in it, so that it really gives rise to the legal consequences for which it was once thought. Shortly put: two are the main things we offer. First of all, in schools, in universities to objectively study this period so that we know and know our history. In order not to do so, we all know very well the maxim: a people who do not know their history to repeat their mistakes. Let this period really objectively be included in the curriculum, to be studied because a whole young generation practically grew up after 1989. If you ask them exactly what they know about communism and what it has done to Bulgaria, many of them will really wonder and will not be able to give you a specific answer. And it's not because they don't want to know, it's because they don't teach this stuff objectively, and they have no way of knowing it unless they've shown initiative to read. The other part of the bill concerns, unfortunately, and to this day, existing absurd artifacts of communism, such as some crazy and weird slogans of the type of......................... Or to this day on some roads you can see on the bridges, writes: "The BCP and the CPS have been friends for centuries and for centuries. Who needs this thing to stand and why should it stand in these places at least mislead people, not to mention that it sounds ridiculous? Or a slogan of the type: The relationship between the BCP and the CPS is a guarantee of peace for mankind and something like that. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] It's the right thing to get rid of such absurdities. Such artifacts really have no place in modern times and, in order not to stand idle, to break down and create a bad impression, it must be clear which state authority is obliged to intervene and have an obligation to take care of these things. The Bill also envisions absurd artifacts that glorify this era, that is to say, create a misconception in people of a regime declared by law of crime, not to be able to be put in place either. If there are any and are declared a monument or have any historical value, then let us at least put an information plate next to them and it clearly says that this regime is declared by the Thirty-eighth People's Assembly as criminal and let people know what it is really about. Otherwise, when people see for example the monument of Tsola Dragoycheva, especially the younger ones will not know that this is the person who proposed Bulgaria to become the 16th republic. They will think that this may be a wonderful, beautiful person who has done wonderful things for Bulgaria. And what she has proposed is practically giving up our national sovereignty. I'll stop here. I suggest that we be constructive and support this bill. It's really my time. He waited a whole year not to mention that the Law has been operating for 16 years, but in practice it does not produce the intended legal effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u144	This is on behalf of the importer. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u145	Madam President, I propose a procedure to postpone this point for one single reason. I know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, this point can be considered without committee reports being read. We are all very familiar with the opinion of the importers, not for the first time we are acquainted with their views on the issue, including when they have proposed it as an item on the agenda. We heard it again this morning. In order to be able to build a more complete picture of what is being proposed, that is why there are committees in the Parliament to consider at a more professional level the things that are about to vote, to hear their reports, so that we can still make an informed choice. Otherwise, we will remain with the opinion of the importers, without knowing exactly what the opinion of the committees, which are ultimately interested and are obliged to consider such a bill and come up with the relevant report. I propose a delay until these questions are dealt with in the committees and our introduction to the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u146	Inverse opinion Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I oppose that view. Mr. Ermenkov, if you were sincere, we were willing to believe you. The last time, however, when this Law was in the Chamber, you read us about 40 minutes of a KPC report, which you obviously saw for the first time, but patiently only to pass the time and not to examine the Bill, you did this thing and the plenary time was over. If you were really sincere in your intentions, I suppose that even then you could have made this proposal even to this day, a week and more later, that the bill in question had been dealt with in the committees, even more so, there would have been committee chairmen who had already submitted it. I don't accept your argument. I don't think you're being sincere. I appeal to your entire parliamentary group: colleagues, you know, people have said it: Many of you have asked for forgiveness in a personal capacity, I think it will be a sign vote by your group on this bill for these reasons. It is precisely because you say that you are European Socialists, and unfortunately, very often some of you act as communists. I call on you: do not be communists, be truly European Socialists and support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u148	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ermenkov to postpone this item from our weekly program. Vote 79 MPs: 35 against 34, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I begin my speech with an apology to our constituents and to part of the national representation that we need to comment again on the topic that the importers propose to us, and today's majority in the National Assembly supports being discussed. This is another attempt by the Bulgarian Parliament to claim the right of a historical institution. I am in a hurry to say right now that politics cannot be completely cut off from history, and we are not the first to go back, in some form, quite backwards in time. I would understand these periodic initiatives, if they were to offer us political declarations to express an up-to-date attitude towards events of several decades ago, but in a legal form to deal with history, this has already turned history into a servant of politics. And the politicians, who instead of solving today's problems with the people we're here for, are trying to seek some recognition, to get some support, taking on many different and heavy responsibilities. What do smarter people do than importers of this bill? When in connection with the age of 200...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u150	Mr. Stoilov, please no personal and personal qualifications for MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u151	I don't know who's offended?! So there are people in this room who would be offended. I'm not offended, my colleagues are not affected by this thing. In connection with the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Great French Revolution, Jo En Lai asked what his assessment of these historical events was. He replied: "It is still early to say. That's what his answer is all about. I do not say that it is early to pronounce on these things that happened centuries and decades ago, but this shows that events are multilayered, that they have different sides and cannot be brought down to a single and simplified conclusion, because there are indeed many explanations in these events, counter-explainations, motives for some or other actions. Because with this theme you are trying to divide the Bulgarian society once again. I was here 1990, in this Parliament, and the same discussion was held between the then President of BSP Alexander Lilov and the then head of the SDS Zhelyo Zhelev. Then the Socialists suggested that we use the Spanish experience after the Civil War and somehow put up with our own history. Not to reject it, not to make those who have suffered forget, but to really manage to find some common ground as people of a nation and despite the political differences to solve what we need to. The opposition leader then stood up and said: "We must first read all the pages of this past and then close this book. You continue to read for 27 years, and you're reading selectively, you're not deepening the facts, and that's why you're repeating the same mistakes. If you didn't make those mistakes, today's right hand wouldn't be like this. I think it's a testimonial, an assessment that isn't mine, of someone else it's public. Again, the most serious is the attempt to divide the Bulgarian society not on the real divisions that oppose it today, but on the different reading of history. There are two serious historical examples of such an approach after the First and the Second World War. Then, too, there is an experience with reverse power to evaluate history. It is understandable that after such dramatic events, after so many sacrifices and so deep oppositions, this even finds legal forms. In Bulgaria this happens during the agricultural management when a law is adopted. In between, again after consulting the people who approve the prosecution of the perpetrators of national catastrophes. They are condemned, but this creates an additional division in Bulgarian society. They managed to gain strength and some of these people were the actual initiators of the subsequent coup, the subsequent even more violent repression, which led to numerous murders and to the establishment of a dictatorship in Bulgaria. That's the first score. The second after World War II. Once again, in a much larger international coalition, the question of suing the culprits is put again, to those who, from this hall, have been loudly applauding, joining the side of the winners, because in Bulgaria, one of today's evils is that many former party leaders have proved to be today's Democrats or victims of what they have been in the past years. If then things are confirmed in this order, it is because the international reaction to the downed regime is too great, which is its anti-pod to some extent, in other respects there are similarities, but you are now trying to condemn it as a previous historical winner with all the consequences and means that are being used. No one denies what the price was, what methods were used, so that's history. But today, in this year it is 80 years since the start of the Civil War in Spain, and you are constantly trying to burn some mini-citizen wars in Bulgaria with an actual date. Who needs this? You will see that it will not be launched in the upcoming elections. Let me say a few words on the concrete proposals of the Bill. Therefore, no information or any other symbol can be placed to mark such events and the existing ones must be deleted. I expected you to give more eloquent examples, because this one with some faded, old inscription and that you would want to have the collapsed buildings of a TTC, where there were some whitewashed places left to write some relevant then slogan, what would this grotesque help you? There are no cattle, no gypsies, but there will be dotted shadows of the old slogans from 30 to 40 years ago, or on a bridge over the highway. It's about more serious things to remove monuments... We know your action here in downtown Sofia, we know other places. If you are consistent, you should go further. In fact, I think that in the spirit of your law is contained, as you say that some of these things cannot be removed at least quickly, that is to say the buildings of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, the former Party House, now a service building of the National Assembly. You must place under their signposts of the institutions: This was built during the communist regime, which was declared criminal. [[Heckling]] I welcome this idea. [[Applause from BSP LB]] Although we will become some kind of construction clown, reminiscent of the experience of other neighbouring countries trying to reconstruct and take some part of the ancient history. Do it. I don't have any worries. My father was involved in the construction of the National Palace of Culture, of the Sports Complex of Red Flag, of many other sites. What? Is there something wrong with that thing? You condemn a period in the history of Bulgaria, which despite all the mistakes, despite the violence in the initial years, Bulgaria reaches the highest point in its economic, social and spiritual development and this is a statistical fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u152	What's spiritual?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u153	It's not some kind of commie bragging or anything. Bulgaria is almost in the first thirty by all these indicators in the world. Build, let us build a system that economically, socially and culturally takes Bulgaria to 25th place and say: "Let's condemn that system because it ranked us only in the first 30 in the world. Where is Bulgaria now? In the hemiphery, falling to the lower part of the hemiphery of today's world.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u154	What's spiritual?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u155	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u156	What's spiritual? Give us an example of spirituality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u157	What is spiritual? Did you see the charts...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u158	Colleagues, please don't move. You will have the opportunity to take the floor from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u159	Did you see the charts for Bulgarian films, for Bulgarian books? How many contemporary works have Bulgarian citizens and some of them, who were not contemporarys of the time in which they were created?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u160	What kind of spirituality?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u161	How many such spiritual models found international validation and recognition in Bulgaria? Why is that? Because Bulgaria is now higher? Or because it is offered cultural surrogates that need to wash away the mass consciousness and prevent people from seeing what separates them and who is the real culprit for their condition? Place these signs. They will be very useful not to the people who have survived these years, but to those who are growing up, to those who are coming after us, because this must not be forgotten. This period should not be forgotten by Bulgaria, because it will have at another time its much more humane and optimistic continuation. Your pathetic legislative experiments will not even help yourself. We will reject these proposals because from a declaration called the law adopted during your leader Ivan Kostov, you today's omnipotent followers are trying to make a pseudo-law with regulations and even with sanctions. At the end you say you should study history. I am a great supporter of not saving anything from this story, but you say to study history according to this law. You see what the importers are offering us? Not to study history according to the actual facts in all its fullness, which I will continue to do as far as I can. [[Applause from BSP LB]] and where I am able, indeed, to spread these pages from all their countries, but to teach in schools and universities the forged history of a law, this is the perversion of history, and this is the political perversion in which you are involved. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u162	- What's the line? For the first line Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u163	Mr. Stoilov, frankly, I hadn't decided to give you a line before I heard about the spiritual. I have the self-esteem to say that I am of a generation that comes after you both to one degree or another, and the governance and future of this country will depend on people like me, people a little smaller, the ones that come after you. I quite responsibly say that neither I, nor my generation, nor the adolescents, nor our children and grandchildren want to live in Bulgaria, in which the communist regime is called the spiritual regime. We do not want to live in a country in which the communist regime here, of this tribune, and I am ashamed that there are people who glorify it and people who in today's 21st century in modern times talk about that the communist regime had two faces. No, the communist regime has a facade that you guys are worshipping and a real face that is terror, which is death, which is violence that has destroyed its own population. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u164	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u165	This is the reading of history! The story has no two faces, Mr. Stoilov. History has only one face, and it's the real one. As a young man, I refuse to live in a country that calls BCP, communism, spiritualism, exalts it and is trying to explain to us how we are the bad guys who are trying, you see, to condemn something that has caused irreparable damage to our country for decades. I'm ashamed of you! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u166	Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u167	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoilov, there were really shameful things in your speech, but you are still a lawyer and you are not honored to speculate with a law that has been operating for 16 years to try to convince people that some repressive measures are almost now being adopted. There's no such thing. Not at all! The law has been operating for 16 years, we have been making some additions to it so that the goals that were once set with its adoption can be achieved. In essence, in the statement you made, I wrote down a few things. You're saying this bill divided society. I'm asking you, who actually divided society all these years ago? Didn't this nationalization, which was done on 9 September and then in the first days after 9 September 1944, combined with that terror that was exercised on the urban and rural population? Didn't the sanatoriums, stations and whatnot to the CCP, the Politburo, and all the like that the mere mortals of that regime not only didn't have access to, but they couldn't even see what it was? Didn't those shops that were then called Korecomi and people went to see what the members of the CCP could buy and what the rest of the people couldn't buy because it was sold in rotten capitalism? [[BSP LB.]] Didn't the camps divide it where you sent people, where my colleague before me spoke freely and categorically condemned this regime? That's what you were doing, or rather your ancestors. What we have asked of you is quite correct to distinguish yourself from these practices, to say that these are shameful practices. We owe an apology to the Bulgarian people for them and we really want to behave like European Socialists, and you are doing the opposite. You are going out and talking about some amazing post-communist mantras that I am wondering how you could do it. It's absolutely false, these are the buildings. Nobody wants buildings destroyed, moved or anything. It's about the so-called "monuments" or "artifacts" that glorify communism. I didn't see anywhere on the Council of Ministers standing or writing something to celebrate communism. Yes, right, on the old building of the former Party House there is still a remnant of the crest above with a broken five-pointer, which I hope you will agree, at least aesthetically it is nice to find a way there to put the current state crest, not to stand the former crest of the Soviet Union with the broken five-pointer. These are details, not to go into detail. What was prosperous in Bulgaria at the end of 1989. 10 billion debt and a bankrupt economy? Huge foreign debt? [[Noise and lines.]] Broke agriculture, broke economy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u168	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u169	Yes, thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u170	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u171	I'll start with the last one. How is it not uncomfortable for you, Mr. Slavov, to compare the debt of the People's Republic of Bulgaria in the late 1990s, since only the debt you withdrew in your management is greater than it is?! [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]] Shame on you, for those surpluses you do not account for, but you withdraw 16 billion debt, and then it was said that Bulgaria had about 10 billion dollars in debt for several decades. Find out and look, try to see your own bankruptcy. You have brought this to this point, not as an apotheosis that to Todor Zhivkov in the late 1980s there was a much more critical, albeit unofficial, attitude in the Bulgarian public opinion, but a representative sociological study conducted in Bulgaria just a few years ago, it was found that the positive attitude towards it has reached over half of today's Bulgarian population. [[Loud noise and lines on the right.]] That is to say, you have made people who have been changed and have already been expected to be replaced personally in the majority of society as a system, to be much more liked today than what is being offered to them. These are the results. That is why I told you: to do more than what Bulgaria has achieved so that we can deny that Bulgaria. For the camps, who denied that there were camps and that these camps really caused repression, including people for their beliefs? These facts have long been recognized. I don't justify them with a reverse date... But, speaking of camps, do you know when the first camps were created in Bulgaria? You know what? In what period? I'll tell you that they were created before 9 September, not after. And since then, opponents of the regime, including ideologically, have been sent to these camps. So things weren't invented... Why not give an assessment of divided Bulgaria over the 20th century and choose what you are comfortable with? We're for this whole thing. And to sanatoriums, you also sound kind of comical. It is true that for the highest of these sanatoriums were the highest quality, were surrounded and, generally, inaccessible. However, there is one difference: that all Bulgarians could go to sanatoriums and to rest stations. One was fancy, the other was ordinary. [[noise and lines to the right]] And some of the current wealthy people in the estates if they don't invite you to do them a favor, are they open, are they generally available? [[Laughter and applause from BSP LB.]] Aren't they people's labors, in many cases robbed? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And lastly, Madam President, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u172	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u173	Let me just say one sentence to Mr. Georgiev, not to ignore him. Yes, the future always belongs to the young for natural reasons. But that is not a privilege in itself, because not everyone who lived after Aristotle is smarter than him. Thank you. [[Loud applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-23.u174	Colleagues, since there are several MPs who have applied for speeches, this cannot happen in the remaining two minutes until the end of the plenary session. We will continue the discussions in tomorrow's regular meeting at 9:00. For today, I am closing the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
