ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. A few messages before we start with the legislative part of our program. By letter No 654-00-81 of 2 June 2016, Mr Mustafa Karadaye submitted an application stating the following: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 22, para. 3, p. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply for my early release as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. In relation to art. 22, para. 4 I ask that my release be announced at the next plenary session. I just did. Yesterday, on 2 June 2016, received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications adopted on the first vote on 27 May 2016. The project was prepared by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. This communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. By letter No 654-00-79 of 2 June 2016, I was informed by the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Borislav Lyubenov Veliev that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly withdraw the bill of supplement to the Energy Act submitted on 24 June 2015. Last communication: On 1 June 2016, a final audit report No 02-001-01515 was received by the President of the Court of Auditors on the compliance audit of the National Assembly's financial management for the period from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2014. By my letter, the report was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The report is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to our Weekly Programme today, as a first point, we should discuss: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. Reports have been received from the committees to which the bill has been allocated. First we will hear the report of the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Mr. Tsvetanov, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I start with the report, let us ensure that the Deputy Ministers of the Interior are allowed in connection with the draft of the draft of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.................................... the Deputy Ministers of the Interior........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u3	Please vote, colleagues. 140 MPs voted: 138 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Ministers to the Chamber. We're listening, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u4	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. At a regular meeting held on 6 April 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior: Rumyana Bachvarova The bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior was presented by Minister Bachvarova. The bill proposes changes to support the professional composition of the Ministry of Interior with clearer and better working conditions, a better service for citizens and ultimately modernise the activities of the Ministry of Interior as a modern and active institution. Structural changes are envisaged to remove atypical subsidiary activities from the Ministry of Interior with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the main activities that are within the authority of the ministry. The structural changes cover the passage of the Department of the Special Courier Service to the State Commission on Information Security, the establishment of the Fire Safety Agency and the establishment of the Center for the provision of services with state enterprise status and the establishment of the Executive Agency. In addition, changes relating to the status of civil servants are envisaged, reducing the compensation for termination of the service from 20 to 12 salaries for civil servants employed after 1 January 2017. The amount of annual leave paid to civil servants from 30 to 25 days is reduced. Precautions for stability of employees in the sector shall be established when passing without a competition of higher positions. It shall be possible for the appointing authority to assign its powers of service to the persons of the Administration of the Secretary-General or to their respective posts in the administration. An explicit regulation for carrying out tests is also proposed to establish the level of performance of duties, as well as the conduct of annual checks on the level of qualification and the assessment of the quality of performance of duties for the job concerned, as well as the settlement of the consequences in case it is negative. The planned changes extend the activity of the Directorate General to fight organised crime to counter the illegal transfer of individuals or groups across the border. It is also regulated the possibility that the Directorate General for Organized Crime is working to counter corruption crimes in the authorities of the state, without prejudice to an organised criminal group. The bill also provides for changes in the texts regulating the operational and search activities carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The proposals best achieve the principles contained in Recommendation 2005/10 of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on special investigative techniques. The establishment of a Central Commission is also proposed to assess the legality and appropriateness of the contracts offered for donations. Minister Bachvarova explained that in parallel with these changes are proposed many other measures aimed at achieving a synthetic effect for reforming the system. In conclusion, she said that the main thing is to achieve a more flexible organisation system, to restructure the activities in order to optimise the spending of funds and, within its internal capabilities, quickly and effectively to support the renewal of the resources of the Ministry of Interior. In support of the proposed amendments and additions to the Ministry of Interior Act, Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov and the Director of the Department of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, Nikolay Nikolov also spoke. People's representatives Atanas Merdjanov, Yavor Haytov, Hamid Hamid, Svetoslav Belemezov, Valentin Radev, Atanas Atanasov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the discussion. During the debates, the MPs expressed a critical attitude on several aspects and noted that it was necessary to refine the texts relating to structural changes, reduction of benefits, competition start, delegation of personnel powers by the Minister as the appointing authority of the Secretary General, changes in the relations of the staff of the Ministry of Interior Academy. The President of the Commission, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, pointed out that some adjustments should be tabled between the first and second votes in order to achieve greater stability and sustainability of the employees in the Ministry of Interior and in the system as a whole, as well as to improve the motivation to achieve higher results in their activities. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 6 votes for the House of Interior, 3 votes against the Ministry of Interior, and 7 votes abstention, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. We are now to hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u6	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. At its meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Interior: Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova Minister, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister, Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev Deputy Minister, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. She pointed out that it includes three groups of changes: firstly, structural; secondly, changes related to the status of employees in the Ministry, and thirdly, changes that specify and improve provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act. The structural changes aim, on the one hand, to focus the activities of the Ministry of Interior on the implementation of the main activities to protect citizens' rights, to combat crime, to protect national security, to protect public order and fire safety and to protect the population, and, on the other hand, to improve the quality of the administrative services provided. The proposals for specific structural changes include the passage of the Department of Special Courier Service to the Ministry of Interior to the State Commission on Information Security; the transformation of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law; restructuring of the Directorate of Property Management and Social Activities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Changes in employee status include arrangements for the way the transition from one category of employees to another. The Bill proposes a reduction in compensation for the termination of the civil servant's service with status under the Ministry of Interior Act from 20 salaries to 12. The proposed change is intended to apply to civil servants employed at the Ministry after 1 January 2017. As regards the civil servants in force, it is envisaged to maintain the amount of compensation. There is also a reduction in the amount of paid annual leave for civil servants from 30 to 25 days. The bill creates conditions for mobility between the structures in the sector "Secrets" by clarifying separate provisions in Part Three "State Service" of the Ministry of Interior Act. An explicit regulation for carrying out tests shall be established to establish the level of performance of the duties by civil servants. An opportunity shall be created for the civil servants of the Ministry of Interior to receive remuneration on the basis of a civil contract concluded in the implementation of projects financed under programmes or mechanisms of the European Union or under other international programmes and contracts. An obligation is laid down for civil servants in the Ministry of Interior to maintain and increase their professional qualifications, providing for annual inspections of the level of qualification. It is envisaged that, with explicit consent of the employee, overtime may be applied above the permitted under art. 187 to be paid accordingly, avoiding the existing overtime practice, which remains uncompensated. In order to establish effective administrative management, it is proposed to introduce the figure of the Administrative Director. A number of provisions in the Law are also being refined. People's representatives Philip Popov, Dimitar Delchev and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. Mr. Philip Popov pointed out that the proposed Bill is controversial regarding the retirement and reduction of benefits in the termination of the service, as well as the reduction of the amount of annual leave paid to civil servants, and for these reasons will not support it. Mr. Dimitar Delchev welcomed the idea of optimization of expenditure in the Ministry of Interior, but noted that there is insufficient financial justification for the effect on the budget of removing the non-existent activities of the Ministry of Interior and that there is a need to clarify the different provisions between the first and second votes. Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his opinion in support of the Bill because there is a need for a substantial change in the system and noted that there is an opportunity to correct between the first and second votes of the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the House, 2 votes against the House of Interior and 7 votes abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are yet to hear another report from the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u8	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. At its meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Security Services Control Commission discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Minister of Interior, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. She pointed out that it includes three groups of changes: firstly, structural; secondly, changes related to the status of employees in the Ministry; and thirdly, others that specify and further develop provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act. The common logic of structural changes is to take outside the Ministry the atypical activities for it to focus on the implementation of its main activities in protecting citizens' rights and freedoms, combating crime and protecting public order. For this purpose, it is proposed: - the transition of the activities carried out at the moment by the Directorate of the Special Courier Service to the State Commission on Information Security; - the transformation of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population in the Agency of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] - the establishment of a State-owned enterprise "Center for the provision of services" to be entrusted functions in relation to the provision of certain administrative services to citizens; [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u9	Mr. Lazarov, just a moment. Honourable Members, the rapporteur is not being heard. Please. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Quiet, please! Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u10	The restructuring of the existing Directorate of Property Management and Social Activities of the Ministry of Interior in the Executive Agency of Property Management and Social Activities. Changes in employee status are mainly expressed in the passage of administrative staff in those exercising category III work. The first category of work shall be reserved for officers with police powers. The third group of changes includes extending the powers of the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime, limiting the sites that are guarded by the Ministry of Interior, clarifying the legislation on donations. As a result of the proposed changes, the Ministry is expected to make pen savings of 60 million. lv. annual, which, in turn, allows the allocation of resources to improve working conditions, to equip staff, to improve information systems and as a result to achieve greater motivation and satisfaction of employees. People's representatives Filip Popov, Atanas Merdzhanov, Kamen Kostadinov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Metodi Andreev, Valentin Kasabov, Dimitar Lazarov and Manol Manev took part in the discussion. The subject of discussion were several main issues: firstly, the limitation of social benefits of employees; secondly, the status of lecturers at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior; thirdly, the removal of previous structures of the Ministry of Interior outside the Ministry and the transfer of powers from the Minister to other officials. In response to questions asked, Minister Bachvarova stated his readiness to discuss any proposals on the bill between his first and second votes, as long as they do not contradict his principled positions, namely structural and functional optimization of the system and the introduction of opportunities for delegation of part of the functions and responsibilities at the lower levels of management. Following a discussion and a vote of 9 votes, 3 votes against and 3 votes, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft amendment and supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Dear MPs, we should hear from Mrs. Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior on behalf of the importer. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, to present a bill of discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u12	Dear Mr. Notev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the opportunity to present the meaning of the changes that we are making in the Bill, which is subject to your attention, because it has sparked public interest, public discussions, and much of the comments that have been made have shown that either it is not understood well, or there is not enough information about the meaning and essence of the proposals that we are making with this Bill. The texts we offer to your attention aim to implement the planned reform in the Ministry of Interior, as well as measures for its implementation. Among them are those who need to arrange for the status of employees in the Ministry of Interior system, to give a long-term perspective for their employment relationships, as well as to achieve the personnel and technical strengthening of police structures to better perform their functions. Other important objectives that we want to achieve with the reform are: Firstly, a modern model of governance by distinguishing administrative from professional and political functions. Secondly, structural restructuring which has an effect on the financial stabilisation and recovery of the system in order to better provide resources to the main activities and improve the quality of ancillary activities by which services are provided to citizens. The first group of amendments to the Bill shall cover: First, the transformation of the service of the employees under § 86. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the division of employees in the structures of the Ministry, working under the Ministry of Interior Act and the Civil Service Act, is also a fact in the current Law. The proposed change in the Bill aims to complete this process. Currently, nearly 150 employees under the Civil Service Act are employed in the administrative directorate. We propose the conversion of their employment relations, as for these employees it is not the first time that a service arises. They are currently implementing state service relations with the Ministry of Interior. In the event of transformation, the service relationships continue to exist, but the rights and obligations of these employees will be governed by the Law on the Civil Service Officer instead of the Law on the Ministry of Interior. In this way stability shall be created and the maintenance of the service relationships of persons shall be ensured. In the legislative practice, there are also other cases of transformation of employment into service and of service under one law into service under another law. The chosen approach ensures that employees' current positions are maintained and does not affect their already agreed rights. They will remain in their current positions and will retain the benefits accumulated so far from their internship and will be charged to them as public administration officials. However, the General Assembly will not be able to exceed 20 salaries as much as they are agreed upon when they enter the Ministry of Interior. The possibility that employees should not be appointed to work, such as bad practices, have occurred in previous years in relation to other departments, shall be eliminated. This will give the system stability. Secondly, new functions of DGBOP are proposed in line with the recommendations of the last European Commission report of January this year under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. They are expressed in extending the scope of the activities of DGBOP to counter the illegal transfer of individuals or groups of people across the border. It is also regulated the possibility of DGBOP to work on countering corruption crimes in state authorities and money laundering alone or jointly with other state authorities in the process of proving OPG. Thirdly, it is offered an opportunity for former employees who have had police powers, but who have already ceased relations with the Ministry of Interior, to assist in the security of premises of the Ministry of Interior. Thus, persons working in the employment relationship will be given specific powers of security and/or crossing regime in the area of a secure site of the Ministry of Interior, or assistance in monitoring the state border. This will also enable over 500 police officers who are currently guarding the Ministry's buildings to engage in patrol post security activities and thus we will be able to compensate very quickly for part of the personnel deficits in the system. Changes relating to operational search activity: The proposals are most fully achieved in the defined principles containing Recommendation 2005/10 of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on special investigative techniques. These are the legality of the methods and the grounds for their application, proportionality and control in their use. The approach in the provisions in force is contradictory and inconsistent. The proposals we make are intended to refine the existing regulations and synchronise basic concepts with the theory and practice of operational and search activities. In order to counter corruption in the Ministry of Interior system, we propose creating an opportunity to verify the circumstances that employees declare annually in their property and income statements. An explicit regulation shall be established in order to carry out this verification and to benefit from the results thereof accordingly. We regulate the duties of civil servants in the Ministry of Interior to maintain and increase their professional qualifications. We foresee annual checks for the level of qualification and, in two consecutive unsatisfactory assessments, we propose to proceed with the preparation of an evaluation for the performance of the post, which may in turn be the basis for reassignment of another position or for termination of the service. With this we will meet the public expectations that the employees of the Ministry of Interior will be in good physical and professional form. We have preciseed the provisions regarding donations that we can receive only from state and international institutions in order to increase transparency, we explicitly provide for the publication of information on the contracts concluded in a public register. We propose the establishment of a permanent central committee to assess the legality and appropriateness of the relevant donations contracts. We create the opportunity, with the explicit consent of the employee, to put overtime above the permitted under art. 187 to be paid for. We will thus avoid the existing practice of overtime, which remains uncompensated. This is admissible under Directive 2003/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003. The Transitional and Final Provisions provide for amendments to a group of laws by which, for greater operationality and compliance with the time limits provided for in the legislation, the Minister may, at his discretion and not automatically, delegate his or her functions of management to deputy ministers or other management officers who will be responsible for and control the administrative activity in the main and district directorates of the Ministry. With this, we will optimize and decentralise management responsibilities and increase management capacity. In addition, it is envisaged as a legal opportunity for the Minister to grant his or her powers in relation to the state services under the Ministry of Interior Act to the Secretary-General. The Minister decides whether to delegate powers and which ones, the aim here is to fully apply the principle of competition and the Minister, who is political, not to sign any appointment of a policeman or firefighter. This will be in terms of positions with a lower hierarchy and to a level of medium management. At the same time, even if the Minister delegates his powers of service to employees with status under the Ministry of Interior Act, he can always exercise them himself. I pay such detailed attention to this part of the proposals because there were comments on them. In fact, that's the logic of my exhibition as well. The proposal is similar to the one existing in the Civil Service Act, which allows the appointing authority to assign the Secretary-General to the relevant office all or part of the powers of service to the persons. Such opportunities and rights have even the Prime Minister. Now in the Ministry of Interior such an opportunity exists with regard to the administrative secretary of the Ministry of Interior. The Minister of Interior may delegate powers to him against civil servants with status under the Civil Service Act. The Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior is the senior civil servant with status under the Civil Service Act and is responsible for the subsidiary, administrative activities in the Ministry, and the Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Interior is the senior professional position with status under the Ministry of Interior Act and is responsible for the main activities of the Ministry of Interior. In this regard, and in order to ensure better vertical coordination of administrative activity in the system, we propose regulation of the figure of the administrative officer in each main and territorial Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. This will loosen the police chiefs from side responsibilities and functions and will lead to increased quality and efficiency in the performance of their direct police functions. We also foresee changes to the list under Annex 1 to art. 92, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act on the sites guarded by the Ministry of Interior. The proposed changes concern the removal of sites from the list that are not owned or operated by budgetary organisations. For these objects will apply the order under art. 92, para. 1, which is a contract. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's time for the speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u13	The time for presenting the bill is over. You have the opportunity to continue in the form of a statement on the presented bill. Please, continue without interrupting. If you prefer, of course. That's what I'm offering you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u14	Yeah, yeah. There are important things I'd like to pay attention to. By optimizing the list, some of the employees involved in this activity will be able to redirect to the patrol and post security activities of police structures. The introduction of retribution contracts will optimize the revenue of the Ministry. The structural changes we offer: First, the transfer of the Department of Special Courier Service to the State Commission on Information Security. The logic is clear, there were no comments on this. Second, the transformation of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection in the Agency for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The aim of this change is to give more administrative autonomy in the implementation of fire safety and population protection policy and activities. As a secondary authorising officer, the Agency will be able to be more adequate to the dynamics of the external environment and to carry out joint activities with other structures within and outside the Ministry to ensure rapid response. I repeat, I note that it remains under the hat of the Ministry of Interior, but is only a secondary officer. Third, the establishment of a State-owned enterprise "Center for the provision of services" with the status of a state-owned undertaking under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. The state-owned enterprise will be entrusted with the functions of providing administrative services by the Ministry of Interior to citizens. These are activities related to the registration of motor vehicles, the design, development, maintenance and development of software necessary for the provision of administrative services by the Ministry of Interior, as well as prepress preparation and printing of forms, samples and other documents of the Ministry of Interior. It is envisaged that the financing of the activities of the state-owned enterprise will be carried out by charging the services provided. It will also be possible to determine an adequate wage for employees in it, who are neither police nor civil servants, and will be able to use the funds more optimally. In order to create clarity with regard to the staff of the Ministry of Interior carrying out activities which should be transferred to the State enterprise, several provisions have been proposed to arrange for the termination of their duties and the transition of their employment and the opportunity to enter into employment with the State undertaking. Restructuring of the existing Directorate of Property Management and Social Activities. This measure also aims to structurally distinguish the main functions of the Ministry of Interior in the protection of public policy and to ensure national security from ancillary activities. Thus, the material and technical provision of the structures of the Ministry of Interior and social services will be carried out by the operationally independent Executive Agency, but while maintaining the Ministry's direct control over it. In this way, focus is achieved on this activity, which will help to carry out and improve the activities received. The third group of changes are the most socially sensitive. Here I want to explain the logic of their proposal. They have sparked debates, but I want you to know that we have had in mind the following: they will have a broad and tangible effect on the budget of the Ministry of Interior in view of its stabilisation and removal of the chronic deficits of financial and material resources accumulated for years. In the current situation, employees in the Ministry of Interior receive the main stimulus when exiting the system. We need to reorganise the budget and work at the Ministry so that incentives can be received during the performance of the functions and not when the employee comes out. In this way, we stimulate the exit from the system and in practice destabilize it and create the personnel deficits. We propose that the compensation for termination of civil servants with status under the Ministry of Interior Act, appointed after the beginning of 2017, will be changed from 20 to 12 wages. There are so many salaries that were 1995 before the current changes, so are the benefits received by the employees at the SANS. With regard to the current civil servants, it is envisaged that the amount of compensation is maintained.................................................................................................... No one currently appointed and already having employment will be affected by this measure. It's being introduced to the target... [[Reply from BSP LB.]] Are we having a debate now?! ...which I presented, the stabilisation of the system to enable us to find incentives for those working in the system in the process in which they work. There is also a reduction in the amount of paid annual leave for civil servants from 30 to 25 days. This means reducing the annual cost of paying paid leave by more than 10 million for the Ministry. BGN, or to create an opportunity to additionally appoint over 600 police officers and firefighters without any change in the current budget. On the basis of the analysis of the staff leave used, we believe that this measure will not significantly affect their rights, given that the legislator has voted on a size of 20 working days for civil servants. We offer 25, which is five days extra for employees in the Ministry of Interior, who perform specific functions. We also foresee the creation of conditions for the mobility of employees from the structure in the sector "Secure" after the adoption of changes in legislation at the beginning of this year. Those who have police powers, or had, but are currently in administrative positions, will be able to return to work in the structures with police functions. The topic of lecturers at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior was widely discussed. Our proposal follows the logic of the Law as adopted in 2015. Each exception from it is a rule of law, of course, but it will also mean that we will set a precedent, because the form of regulation of employment relations is very clearly described in what logic it is implemented. To conclude, I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for the comments, for the interest, for the opportunities. I hope that we will give the Ministry of Interior a chance to start working better and demand this even more strongly from the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, this was the presentation on behalf of an importer. We are going to debate on the submitted bill. First, Mr. Iankov said he wanted to do it. Here you are, Mr. Yankov. The debate is open.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, honourable Members! The Bachvarova Law finally deletes institutional continuity in the Ministry of Interior. The reform or transformation proposed by the Law of the sociologist Bachvarova has one single goal, at least that is how the economy of financial resources is declared. Nothing is foreseen to improve the organisation of the activity, management and condition of work in the Ministry, the work with human resources, the preparation and preparation of police officers, career development and as a result to have more efficient and strong police. What's the offer? Reduction of police compensations, reduction of leave, freezing the salaries of state officials in the Ministry of Interior, removal from the Ministry of Interior of Fire and Security, creation of self-government agencies, but the support money will be the same if not more because of the support of the individual administrative leaders in the agencies. It is comforting that only services provided by the Ministry of Interior are included in the enterprise. The main questions of the so-called...... remain. It is worrying that there will be an opportunity after the adoption of the bill to proceed to privatisation of the activity of issuing all documents, administration and development of IT systems as services. In the Bill it becomes clear who will issue the personal documents, the company that will produce personal documents. In the current Law, this is the Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents, art. 43a, t. 5. According to the Law Bachvarova, we privatize this activity and it is not clear because it is not visible whether there will be a specialized structure of the Ministry of Interior, which will issue the documents. It is not evident in the Law what is the purpose of the transfer of the Special Courier Service from office to office. These officials of the state did not happen to leaders of the Post Office, through Minister Nikolay Vassilev, in the Ministry of Interior, now in the State Commission for Security of Information. I believe that DXI is a supervisory authority of the classified information protection system, but that does not mean that they should also become postmen. Special courier service doesn't belong there. Once again, we quickly and suddenly remove a structure from the Ministry of Interior with the so-called goal of releasing it from non-functional activities. It is interesting to read the reasons for the transfer of the Special Courier Service to the Ministry of Interior in 2009. What is the argument? With the same logic, it must be removed from the Ministry of Interior and Afkoss the Directorate for the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Union, OLAF's partner office. Move her to the Ministry of Finance. That's probably where she belongs. The bill confirms the opinion that importers have entered a track and continue to delve into it. It is clear that going back is considered impossible. Yes, they can enforce the Law forcefully, but the result will not be positive. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior announces facilitating the management of the Ministry of Interior, and to this end it is as much broken down as possible. This was an alternative to development because it was difficult to manage the current Ministry. The management of the security system, ensuring the life, health and property of Bulgarian citizens is a difficult and responsible process and is a calling. It's not for everyone. The workers in this sector dedicate themselves to him. Do you understand that, Mrs. Bachvarova? They continue to introduce themselves to the public that savings will be made that will improve police activity. However, it is good to explain why the employees of the Ministry of Interior have such social status under the law of the Ministry of Interior. They have the most serious restrictions and are not the only ones that they cannot reconcile with work elsewhere. Twenty-four hours are available to the Ministry, the citizens and the state. If they go abroad, they shall notify the Head according to the obligations of the Classified Information Protection Act and many other restrictions. We want the employees of the Ministry of Interior to have knowledge and skills in order to perform their duties, to serve the public. So we have a lot of unemployment, we have a bank, and if someone is not willing to work under the new conditions, to leave, we will hire the waiting unemployed to do so, colleagues. How will the Ministry of Interior attract quality human resources when it cannot compete with the private sector in which the salaries for qualified personnel are higher? Since there is no finance, the state 20 years ago, Mrs. Bachvarova, introduced the current conditions for employees and thus attracted competent personnel to fight crime. There is no possibility for higher salaries, as in the private sector, but there is a social package and benefits that compensates for the restrictions under which the Ministry of Interior is working, there are specialized medical and social services. The employees and the public did not understand the criteria for determining who is the administration of the Ministry of Interior. Since you have police functions, I mean, you work on the street, you get a bigger salary. On the contrary, the rest are purse owners and become civil servants under the Civil Service Act and lose some of their social status. The question is: why? How, then, will we have qualified and educated personnel in the Ministry of Interior, knowledge of foreign languages, experts, analysts, IT specialists and so on?! This approach must be abandoned and another should be applied where police officials have them not to pay higher wages, but to be able to apply the state force to counter crime, patrol, detain, conduct operational search activities, investigate, use weapons, aids if necessary and so on. The issue of payment and other compensatory benefits must be linked to the quality and degree of expertise of the activity, not to whether or not they have police functions and whether they are on the street. It is possible to get then an analyst and IT experts, for example, to take higher salaries, but there will be experts in the system. At the moment, the Ministry of Interior does not have any, as as as a result of the reforms, these experts have left. There is no way to implement operational and search activities without processing, analysis and evaluation and without its expansion on an analyst's proposal. This is part of the reconnaissance cycle, and it's the only way the police will carry out preemptive, proactive action in the fight against crime. Otherwise, the insolent armed robberies in broad daylight will flood us. On the one hand, the minister says: The solution of the problems goes through the development of the information technology of the Ministry. On the other hand, the managers and Minister Bachvarova, and Boyko Borisov announced that the IT specialists are handbags. We do not need to support with examples the minimum salary of the IT sector in the other private structures is BGN 2000. When analysts are considered bagmen in the Ministry of Interior, Madam Minister, how should their social status be changed and salaries, leave and benefits be reduced, how will experts with the ability to analyse the processes in a particular sector be attracted to work and propose options for active activities to prevent crime? That's too bad. It is a pity that in the ranks of the government there are people who are considered professionals and do not understand or want to understand that the work in the Ministry of Interior is a collective police officer, a regional inspector, an operative, investigative police officers, an analysts, a team that is equal to an effective result. It's very simple. I don't really know what category three is, Mrs. Secretary, from this team?! Experience of reform or transformation involves changes at the top of the pyramid. Possibility of delegation of powers so zealously explained by the Minister of other officials. Perhaps because it is difficult, by your own admission, to run the security system for citizens. This possibility of delegation, without mentioning limitively in the Law, is controversial. The Ministry of Interior is a hierarchical management system and there should be clear rules on both the horizontal and vertical of the management. On the one hand, you are saying that you are cutting administrative posts and, on the other, you are looking at § 12 and § 14 of the Bill. You are creating a new figure of Head of Administration in the Directorates General and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. Establishment, in substance, of commercial structures relating to social services, service undertakings, the Executive Agency for Social Activities and so on - § 8, which creates para. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55c. a state-owned enterprise is being formed. The Center for the provision of services with the status of state-owned enterprise under the Commercial Law. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Interior has three types of functional obligations: citizens' security, information to counter crime and service to citizens. This is a preparation for privatizing some of these services, perhaps there is such a practice in other countries, do I know?! In my opinion, the reform should start where the citizens turn to the police in the districts. It's the philosophy of what you're proposing that's wrong. In order for there to be effective police, work must be done to improve the activities of the police districts. Central-level bodies, the main directorates must have a small and highly qualified composition, based on the built territorial structures that are closest to citizens and the problems of combating crime. By the way, the Ministry also has fewer staff. The work on crimes and serious violations of public order with the greatest impact on security and public order, serious crimes, crimes committed by organised criminal groups in the territory of more than one area must be carried out by police units with a high level of professional competence and efficiency. The new police model should enable the responsibilities of police authorities in the two essential areas of internal security: on the one hand, the police must respond to the daily problems affecting individual citizens and, on the other hand, to the serious problems affecting the foundations of security and public order, organised crime, drug trafficking, terrorism, various types of cross-border crime, computer crime, human trafficking and sexual exploitation and any other type of criminal activity that requires countering highly specialised police measures, new content of interaction between the police in the territory and local authorities and self-government. But what do you propose with your reform? In order to achieve a more efficient use of the police authorities, the main activity of the Ministry and the additional activity of guarding the premises of the Ministry of Interior will be assigned to persons working in employment. Those powers will assist police authorities in carrying out their functions, and in places where police authorities are required to operate, the functions will be performed by persons working in the employment relationship, namely the security of the Ministry of Interior sites. And that's what you're arguing with motive: the Ministry of Interior's sites are being guarded by guards, expecting about 500 people to go out on the street to guard public order. However, it is not clear how the weapon stored at the premises of the Ministry of Interior will be guarded by the security of passport forms and biometric data chips that will already be in the warehouses of the company, the classified police documents and police proceedings documents and so on It is not necessary to give examples of armed robbery in broad daylight in the center of Sofia, is it not, Minister?! Up the pyramid, the Ministry must delegate to the heads of police the human resources work and financial security. We hear some arguments at least that's how it is written in the motives that the chief police departments had no capacity. That's not true! The solution is simply.. the structures of the building of the Ministry of Interior go to the police chiefs in the main Directorates. Otherwise, the minister contradicts his motives to the Law, indicating that the Fire and Emergency Safety Agency will be better managed and better managed if it is a separate agency and the main police departments do not have capacity. Under the reform of the public service in the Ministry of Interior there is also a reduction in its basis. I do not see what will improve the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior system after these purely financial measures. Mr. Chairman, I want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u17	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u18	Working at the Ministry of Interior is collective work, as I said. The importers convince us that the restrictions on employee status apply in the future, i.e. to the starting work at the Ministry of Interior. Yeah, but these new employees are gonna be teaming up with the old ones who have the privileges. The two of them will watch their backs in a gunfight with the bandits, for example, and in practice they will have different payments, holidays and benefits, different social status in the police. How will police teams be constructed when there will be a difference in the terms of the public service of two employees with the same position? During the discussion in the National Assembly, you announced that there was no order to use their leave and employees to keep them to pay them in the end. It comes to the point and the question: who should organize the activities in the Ministry and who is legally responsible for the management of human resources? The regular policeman under a guard has superiors who need to organize their work so that the police can take their rightful leave and recover. A chief who can't create such an organization and take care of his subordinates is clearly not for a boss. The bill, which promises reform in the Ministry of Interior, has nothing to do with improving human resources policy. The human resources reform in the Ministry of Interior must contain many things. However, nothing like this is foreseen. Even in the Bill there is an attractive proposal....................................................................................................... At the same time, the current Ministry of Interior Act: Art. 33: The Ministry of Interior shall be headed by the Minister, who shall: 7. manage human resources. Colleagues, the idea of privatizing the service is being promoted. Such a model is not used in the Member States of the European Union. Even one of the EU's internal security strategies states that the security of citizens is a value. I hope Bulgarian citizens don't start paying for these services as well as health care. It would be more honest for the government to tell Bulgarian citizens: "Dear compatriots, the government has no money to secure your security, life and property. Our priorities for now are construction and renovation. To do that, we need money and we're cutting the police down. On the other hand, there is only one useful thing that sees into the Law. Once the Ministry is broken down, for easier management it does not need the figure Secretary-General. He has no functions in the model of the Ministry of Interior that you suggest we accept, Madam Minister. Colleagues, aren't you ashamed of what you're offering?! I call on those who will support the Law: when you leave the building and meet a uniformed officer, apologize to him. To apologize to him for not respecting his work as he accepts the profession of calling and is ready to protect the state and Bulgarian citizens with his breasts. [[crowd cheering and cheering.]] Understand that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there anyone who would like to comment on Mr. Iankov's statement? I don't see anyone asking for a line. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria has a time of three minutes and forty-five seconds for information of those who wish to speak. The word has Minister Bachvarova, who wanted to answer. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u20	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for Mr. Iankov's program speech. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] She showed why we are in different political parties, showed how different are the principles of our thinking, administrative culture and morality to speculate with the truth, which I think is extremely inherent to you. Nowhere in the proposals we have made is about freezing wages. Yes, you are! You were at the presentation when we said that all measures and beyond those that are in the Ministry of Interior Act, because many of the topics that you mentioned can be resolved not only through the Law, can be solved with the powers of the Minister. This is not about freezing salaries, it is about generating a resource that is aimed at improving conditions and further stimulating workers. Officials at the Ministry of Interior cannot be stimulated to exit the system, they should be stimulated during their work. The second issue of privatization, Mr. Iankov, is clearly not clear to you by your political party. Privatization takes place when it goes into private hands one or another activity or resource. This is what your government did with the BMW company during the previous term of office. We have corrected this and all the structural changes that we are proposing are related to the country having more opportunity to control the processes of providing, carrying out services for citizens, so that we do not have these shocks that we had just a few months ago. If you look at the definition of privatisation, it will become clear to you that we do have very different opinions on this issue. As far as the police work goes. With respect to them, all my efforts are in this direction, and that is why the proposals in the Law are aimed at providing these conditions that will allow us to start working on changing the conditions and the way in which the functions will be carried out. If something is not in the Law, it does not mean that it cannot happen within the limits of the powers of the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For the next speech there is the popular representative Mr. Belemezov. Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! We at the ABB strongly and consistently express our position that we do not approve and do not support the current Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act. In fact, the reasons we define them in three main directions. First, purely principled reasons. We are reporting as a negative trend the fact that, from 2014 to now, 7 bills have been adopted to amend and supplement the Ministry of Interior Act and any subsequent change is extremely sensitive to the composition and employees. You understand the anxiety of this fact. We note that the technology of discussion and acceptance of proposals does not respond to the necessary wide-rangingness. In our view, a brutal omission made the importer because he did not provide the necessary public debate on the bill, and this was initiated by the President of the Internal Commission in Parliament. We note that the adequacy of expert opinions and also the views of a leading trade union organization in the structure of the Ministry of Interior are not taken into account. Last but not least, we note that there is no adequate financial collateralisation of the project. A second category of reasons relates to the fact that we are witnessing proven ineffective structural changes, deprived of adequate preliminary analysis, rather leading to replacement of signs in the Ministry of Interior, rather than creating conditions and contributing to a favourable working environment. The transformation of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population (MIA) into an agency and the establishment of a state enterprise (Center for the provision of services) and the change of the Directorate for Property Management and Social Activities (SOC) are proposals that claim that they are devoid of reason, sound analysis and argumentation. The third category of reasons is the public policy. This ZID of the Ministry of Interior Act we believe is harmful because it deepens civil, political and professional confidence in the Ministry of Interior system. This bill goes beyond the focus of the day's vicious problems, divides society and political elite, and creates anxiety, stress and tension among the professional staff of the Ministry of Interior. This bill sends a message to the employees: You are not important! You are no longer the necessary backbone of stability in the Bulgarian society! "I say this because currently more than 90% of Bulgarian citizens have no confidence in the law enforcement bodies and this was also stated by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Plevneliev precisely from this tribune. On the other hand, the draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers should enjoy maximum political support and consensus, and de facto, evidently, also from the meetings held in the committees, we have political confrontation and collusion. It is high time for all of us to realise that with such a political division we cannot provide a long-term horizon of over 10 years for the reform of the Ministry of Interior, but we provide, as you are doing today, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, a horizon of only three or four years, as is the mandate of each government. This bill lowers the security system, in particular the internal security and the Ministry of Interior, to the level of an absurd paradox, the Ministry of Interior as the system, which is called to ensure stability for the employees, for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, practically turns out to be one of the most unstable and at least because we are witnessing constant reform and a piece of reform. We make the question very clear: how will these changes lead to what result? Which of the problems of the Ministry of Interior will be solved? If we conditionally imagine that we have an empty sheet of white paper [[shows white sheet]] , and divide it into two columns, if in the left column we write five of the most essential ones, of the main ones, of the general ones, of the insurmountable changes at this stage, i.e. problems for the Ministry of Interior, I would like to ask whether you, Mrs. Bachvarova, and the colleagues who will vote today for the present Bill, against each of these problems in the right column could write at least one solution arising precisely from this Bill. I seriously doubt that thing. In the spirit of the discussions on the philosophy of the Bill, we at the ABB ask: firstly, will this bill stop the wave of leaving police professionals? On the contrary, we believe that you deliberately catalyze and deepen this process. I refer to the official data that you announced in response to me and ABB that those who left for the last quarter of 2015 were significantly increased compared to the previous period. The short statistic is as follows: out of 4 208 employees who left for 2015, there were 246 employees who were suspended for September; October 676; November 744; and notice, December "1173." This is like a reactive consequence of the proclaimed reforms. Secondly, we ask whether this bill will increase the detection of crimes? Again, through a question raised by me and ABB in your reply, it is clear that for 2015, the Ministry of Interior has captured the Apropo, in this regard, we did not see a representative of the Ministry of Interior to explain to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian media and the resulting unsatisfied interest in these worrying data: 1. What are the reasons for this inefficiency? 2. What subsequent analysis was done? 3. What are the measures that should be taken to combat crime more effectively and prevent it from being prevented? Thirdly, we ask whether this bill protects us better than the escalating migration crisis and increased risk threats from radical Islam and terrorism? Fourth, we ask if this bill improves the working environment of investigative police officers in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Fifth, we ask if this Bill solves problems with domestic crime and lack of sufficient police in small towns, municipalities and villages? Sixth, we ask if this bill improves the capacity and capabilities of our anti-terrorist groups? The Specialized Counterterrorist Unit, once again on your response to the question raised by me and ABB, Mrs. Bachvarova, is clear that there is a serious failure of the berets and a lack of adequate technical equipment and collateral. Seventh, we ask whether this bill introduces a mechanism for improving social dialogue and for clearer regulation and precision of the work of police union organizations? Moreover, it is high time that you and all of us in this Chamber pay adequate attention to the expertise, experience, skills and valuable advice given to us by the professionals in the face of trade unions. Eighth, we ask if this Bill and in what way is it addressed to the most important asset, a resource available to the Ministry of Interior, namely the employees? How does it improve internal motivational mechanisms, for example? What is envisaged and what is proposed is a reduction in compensation on leaving 20 to 12 salaries and a 5 day cut on paid annual leave. I want you to clarify immediately regarding the reduction of compensation: what is lacking in the management of the Ministry of Interior to preserve the dignity and authority of the Bulgarian policeman? Why did the other structures of our national security, law enforcement and law enforcement keep levels for their employees, and in the Ministry of Interior, we fail and fail to do so? And why 12, and not 11 or 13 for example? Up to 20 salaries are paid in the security sector, the Ministry of Defence, the State Agency..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 225 of the Law on the Judiciary? What you allow yourself to do is a form of voluntarism. You bet future problems for the same work, different compensation. We cannot and should not restrict the police in these well-deserved compensations. Let us recall that if at Christmas and New Year's Eve each of us is with our families at home, they are outside, they are on the street and guarantee our stability and security. On what basis and following what analysis did we decide that we should reduce the annual leave of police officers by five days? Why didn't we do an analysis of why the Ministry of Interior currently has accumulated, notice, over 600,000 days of unused vacations? These are again data from Mrs. Bachvarova in response to a question posed by me and by ABB. Why does the Ministry of Interior not create appropriate conditions for employees to enjoy the right to paid annual leave? People leave, we cannot in the short term appoint new ones, as the appointment procedure itself takes a year, year and a half. In addition, the bill places a high degree of anxiety among the professional staff of the Ministry. A number of studies, including the Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of Interior, show that professional stress in employees working in border areas is comparable to that in martial law. We ourselves understand the particular importance and anxiety of this fact. It is precisely in view of this that we should be particularly careful and precise in our efforts to optimize the processes in the Ministry of Interior. Before the conclusion I will allow myself to say that the impression is being created that the Ministry of Interior is knowingly giving itself to a concession, because everyone manages this system according to their own understandings and no one understands that it ruins the system, that it thus eroticizes public confidence in the Ministry of Interior and that all this is happening only at the expense of the Bulgarian policeman. In conclusion, we at the ABB support the idea of reforming the Ministry of Interior, but not in the way we are witnessing today. We are for a transparent and consistent programme and policy aimed at turning the Ministry of Interior system into a solid partner of Bulgarian society, the transformation of the security sector into a strong backbone for society and democratic values. Yes, but not at all costs. It is, but not at the expense of the regular police officer and individual citizen, but rather carried out in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u23	- What's the line? Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Belemezov, I have listened carefully to you, as I have listened to you in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, including some figures that you have issued. I am really impressed if this is not a typo because the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior last year, notice, has captured Mr. Tsvetanov, the colossal figure of 40 grams of cocaine? Madam Minister, if that's the case, then let's go to closing this...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u25	You're in a replica procedure to the MP, Mr. Haytov. If you want to make a statement, then you will ask the Minister questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u26	Madam President, thank you. That is precisely why I am addressing my colleague, Belemezov, is this about a typo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u27	Second line? A hole, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u28	Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for making the line. I would also hope that this is a typo because, after announcing this data from our question in response to Minister Bachvarova, the public interest in the anxiety of these data has given rise to the possibility that we may, including from this platform, put and request additional information from the Ministry of Interior on this issue. Because if, indeed, within a calendar year, the Ministry of Interior has captured only 49 grams of cocaine, substantial analyses of these causes should be made and concrete measures should be drawn to increase this effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u29	For the answer to the questions asked, Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u30	Thank you. I'm taking this opportunity to make some specifics that are substantially different from the actual figures. Yeah, 49 grams of cocaine, but in 2014, that's how the question was asked. These are the results of the work of DGBOP when it was at the DANS and was waiting to be moved and the structure to move to its natural place in the Ministry of Interior. Back then, DGBOP didn't work. These are the results. The current results. In just one day last week, 101.5 kilos of amphetamines, every day, every week, two operations a day that makes DGBOP pounds, hundreds of kilos, tons of drugs detained. The numbers are true, but they're for 2014, you should keep that in mind. Another speculation with the numbers. What you mentioned as the number of people who left last year is true. So many have left the previous two years, even though there were no debates at the time and this kind of excitement that there was at the end of last year. The bill that we are currently looking at has been tabled four months after the end of last year, so there is no way that this is a reaction to the current bill that we are looking at. After the presentation of the Bill there is no wave of leaving, everything is on the schedule of age. In addition, the contests we have announced at the moment have nine candidates as one place. So don't speculate. If you are really interested in stability of the system, in the self-esteem of employees, do not speculate with figures, do not politicize. We all have an interest in this, and the most important thing is the interest of the Minister. Therefore, everything within my authority is aimed at stabilizing the system and more self-esteem of the employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u31	Thank you, Minister Bachvarova. To make a statement there is Mr. Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u32	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that the Reformation bloc in its entirety will support the proposed Law. We have repeatedly stated that we support every reformist policy and encourage every reformist behavior of the Bulgarian government. That's what we're gonna do now. Thus, by the way, we also supported the transition of DGBOP from DANS to the Ministry of Interior. Many will be said whether these are the exact changes in the Ministry of Interior, whether these are enough changes. There will certainly be adjustments between first and second readings, but one thing is absolutely certain and no one will deny it that the Ministry of Interior needs serious changes and reforms. With the extremely large human resource at its disposal, and the extremely serious budgetary resource, the results are not what society expects. This is the most visible at the lowest level of domestic crime and its harassment of ordinary citizens. Therefore, people expect us and the management of the Ministry of Interior to make serious changes so that this will no longer be the case. We will support the Law. Each of us, of course, has some arguments or remarks. For me, for example, it is an incomprehensible idea for teachers at the Ministry of Interior School to switch to an ordinary employment contract. I believe that these are strategic employees who are preparing the staff of the system and they should have a higher level of protection and motivation. But these are things that I'm saying again, can be cleared further. As a philosophy of reform, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making an offer until we run out of t. 1 et c. 2 of today's agenda to have an extension of working hours, until the adoption of these two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u35	A reverse opinion? Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Tsvetanov! I am making a reverse procedural proposal, as it is very clear, at the very beginning and the intention of holding today's plenary, that the time would not have been enough. You want the debate to be at the expense of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u37	Today there will be parliamentary control three hours after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u38	There may be, but perhaps the Prime Minister will not participate, which is intended for participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u39	He's in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u40	So I'm making a back-to-back procedural proposal to end the discussion until 10.30 and to continue on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u41	I shall put to the vote the proposed legislative part of this plenary to end after debates and voting on the points, respectively, first and second of our programme for today, and then to proceed with parliamentary control in the order of the members of the cabinet as announced, with the agreement that at least three hours should be that parliamentary control. It may be extended with the time of the declarations, if any. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 126 MPs: 101, against 17, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. The word for speech has the popular representative Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u42	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I think that when we talk about amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, we should not actually approach this as any other ordinary law. In any other law, it is allowed, or, say, acceptable to have political assessments, to have a political use of the situation in the name of seeking political dividends. However, I would like to call on all colleagues, including the Minister of Interior, when we speak under the Ministry of Interior Act, to stick to the things that concern the Ministry of Interior system and less politicise, because this benefit will not be the development of a law that can do the work and which, in fact, much of the society expects a working Act for the Ministry of Interior. The country is flooded with domestic crime. Whole regions of Bulgaria are literally under the control of local developed individuals and groups that terrorize the adult population, rob, beat, rape. People expect the Ministry of Interior to be adequate in taking the necessary measures. In addition to speaking politically on the subject of domestic crime and the need for a strong structure of the Ministry of Interior, we are currently looking at a Law on which there are many critical remarks. However, the truth is that under this Law we must approach pragmatically and statesmanly, not emotionally, one part declaring it to be reforms without which the system cannot, but others declaring it to be a Law that does not need to be considered at all. From this point of view, I'm not going into the rhetoric of my former colleagues... Could you, Madam President, put some order in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u43	Colleagues, the noise spread in plenary is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I'm moving on. I will make three comments on the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, based on conversations that we have had in both the Internal Security and Public Order Committee and in conversations that we have had with the Interior Minister in the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and with the trade union organizations in the Ministry of Interior system. I will reserve the right between the two readings to make the relevant proposals. The first note concerns the reduction of the annual paid leave by five days from 30 to 25 days. Frankly, one of the arguments we have heard from the Ministry of Interior is that this will save us some 15 million, with which we will be able to appoint 500 new employees. Dear colleagues, with about three thousand seats unoccupied by state at the Ministry of Interior, to seek to make savings from the vacations of the employees on the field, to hire some new 500 people, it seems to me not serious. We have three thousand empty seats. What 500 are we talking about? What are we after, and what will we accomplish with this? It is no coincidence that when paid leave of employees is envisaged in the previous laws, it is the employees on the ground to be 30 days, their load is taken into account. These people are in the field. These people are under constant stress, psychological harassment and, at the same time, let's be honest, the last 25 years the police officer has been the victim of all kinds of abuse and, on the other hand, the victim of sacrifice on the part of the Ministry of Interior's leadership. I'm not talking about the current minister, I'm talking about generally. You remember that border policeman who obstructed Turkish smugglers with a gamé, used force, was fired and tried. For entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria a foreign court with poachers or smugglers sue the policeman who has used force! In one previous government, there was this paradoxical case: a police officer prevented five drunken citizens from saying what ethnic origins they were tearing up the national flag and using force alone against five was also fired from work. There are dozens of cases like this. This police officer, in fact the policeman in Bulgaria, has a deep doubt that the system will protect him if he uses force to protect the public order, health, property, honor and life of Bulgarian citizens. On the other hand, he's under constant stress. That's field work. We reduce his leave by five days and actually align him with the cleaning lady, the bookkeeper and other employees in the Ministry who do not have similar labour loads. Once again, I stress: it is no coincidence that these 30 days are planned, with the idea of having the opportunity for an employee to fully recover from the tasks that are being assigned to him. I do not accept the argument that exists or which was launched last fall: but we are not satisfied with the police, what are we going to give them 20 salaries, what are we going to give them 30 days off?! Give it to me if you have to, even if there's no police. Just because there are policemen who don't do their job doesn't mean they have to regime them in terms of vacations, social and other benefits. This means that we should perhaps tighten control in the Ministry of Interior itself so that they can do their duties conscientiously. This is one of the points on which I will address and on which, between the two readings, I will propose that the text be rejected. The second concerns the reduction of benefits from 20 to 12 gross retirement salaries. There is also talk about an economic effect here, but, honourable Members, this concerns the employees who will be working after 1 January 2017. If we expect such an effect that will be achieved in part in about 13 years and probably in about 30 years. That is, we are putting pressure on the system, expecting some effect such as savings in about 30 years. Until then, the camel is cameld. The other thing is, there's an inequality. An employee received on 1 December 2016 will be retiring with 20 gross wages, and the one who received one month later will be with 12. Here, too, the necessary compromise can be found. It can be done stepwise for employees who have entered after 1 January 2017 according to the years they have served to determine the compensation they receive. However, this is also a matter of a conversation which we have had in the Commission at least twice, and in the parliamentary group together with the Interior Minister. This is a problem that we should not create a problem in the system. The feeling that some employees have been neglected is that future newcomers create the feeling, I have also spoken to a policeman: "They first do it for those who will occur from January 1st, but perhaps after another month or another year they will want to catch up with us too, it will cause stress in the system, and it can also lead to leaving. So it is better to set it on a step-by-step schedule if it is accepted, of course, by the Internal Security Committee and by the House. Regarding one of the speeches of Minister Bachvarova, she said in the Chamber a moment ago: "Stimulation should be during the service and not at the exit. I would add so, during the service, the employee should be stimulated, but I would add that he should also be stimulated in the very course of action, so that when a police officer in perspective knows that there is a good package of social opportunities, even before he does, he should be motivated in this way. That's it, one doesn't interfere with the other. Just because you will stimulate him during the ministry to perform his duties and perhaps assign him some bonuses does not mean that after he has passed the term of his service, how can I say you will ignore it, at the expense of the employees who have acted before him. The third one on which I am already spoken will not be very much spoken on it is the theme with the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Here are created or, more precisely, there are concerns that by changing the status of teachers, the level of teaching itself may fall, as the logic expressed by trade unions is that, in fact, specialists in the internal affairs system will be forced to leave it. If you attract people who are not in the system, I am supposed to say that they will not have the practical experience they need, except as theoretical lecturers, to have practical experience as people in the system and have worked on it, whether it will be fire safety, whether it will be police and other functions. So these are the three things. Of course, there are a lot of other small things we can talk about. However, the truth is that the debate on the Ministry of Interior is not just a political debate between parties in opposition and those in government. I do not accept the statement of one of my colleagues just now because we are for reforms, we will support any reforms. I don't take that philosophy as a rule. But I don't accept the other philosophy that if we are opposition, we should be against everything. After all, structures like the army, like the police, they are neither of power nor of opposition. Today you're in power, tomorrow you're in opposition, and vice versa. They belong to the whole country and are called to serve the state, to protect the security and interests of the Bulgarian citizens. That's why I'm not going into any smaller details that you can also talk about. I also call on my fellow Members to have a constructive debate on the subject because, again, I say, it is not a topic on which we can measure our political arguments, but we should speak more professionally. It is clear that the Law will pass at first reading, although it has not been adopted by the Internal Security Committee. Between first and second reading, it is nice to give a more normal period so that the proposals can not only be made, but to be considered and discussed in the Commission and to be proposed in plenary so that we can finally, after a second reading of the Law, come out with a Law that will not stress the system from within, which will actually enable better work of the internal affairs system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? Mr. Merdjanov, first line, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, in fact your political plasticity is no surprise to us from the parliamentary group. The truth is quite different. These changes, the amendment and the addition to the new Ministry of Interior Act actually date back to a year and a half. They went through a year and a half of the restlessness of the system, which continues to this day. They went through the categorical disagreement of all trade unions. It came to a situation where Minister Bachvarova announced that everyone who declared against the reform and asked for its resignation is a threat to national security. It came to the humiliating situation in which Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister Bachvarova had to give up the original project. You yourself of the Internal Commission voted against this Law, after which it was necessary for the Prime Minister to bend the hands of his own parliamentary group and you, the coalition partners, to change your position. This is not a constructive debate, Mr. Karakachanov. Thus, it is not working for national security to push you and on the principle of the carrot and of the staff to change your position. It's interesting how you're gonna have conversations with the unions and the cops when you get out of this building. [[Reply from MP Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u47	Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u48	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, do you not understand that after yesterday we decided to load the country with 2.2 billion. leva, this money has to be taken from somewhere? The easiest way to get that money is to get the regular employee to pay for what he's about to get rearmed, to get it ready. So it is a comprehensive policy of this government to transfer the cost of technology to those who will use it. I think it's so clear that you don't have to be surprised why that is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u49	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't get the line, but I didn't get it at all! In the Internal Security Committee, I have abstained from voting, that is, I have not supported these changes. Secondly, I have just expressed my concerns.. not with this pathos and opposition fervour which you would like, without asking the Minister to resign, of course, but I have said where I am worried about these things. This is not about political plasticity, but I have called on you not to have politics in this job. There's no politics! To have soft and cultural... But I said very clearly where things are. Perhaps this is not about political plasticity, but about BSP colleagues it is about political deafness, probably from the rumble of the congress that passed two weeks ago, but unfortunately it is not my fault. I said my remarks, I'll repeat them. They are in terms of reducing holidays, reducing benefits and the problems that will be created at the Academy. How can I put this more clearly? Perhaps you'd like to hear cursing about the Minister, but it's not my style. Even when you were in power, I remind you that in both cases, the officers I mentioned were during your governments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u51	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u52	How is that not true? Especially for the policeman who was in front of the dismissal, I then asked a question to the then Interior Minister, who saved the flag, respecting four dark drunks. But he was about to be fired because a pseudo-defense organization immediately attacked the Ministry and because it is easier to slap the policeman instead of the Ministry to go out and say any policeman who defends the honor and dignity of Bulgaria, we are behind him! So please! That's why I said don't put me back into examples. Don't put me back into examples! That is why I said.. let us speak pragmatically and clearly, without political pathetics, because this is not of any interest to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. The things I said, I'll make them as proposals between first and second readings. I have also told the Commission, I have voted against these changes. I made it very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u53	There's a word for it, Mr. Ayhan Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Bachvarova, I will start my speech with a correct remark in order to protect you as Minister of the Interior: speaking from the stands of the National Assembly, perhaps you should make it more informed. You have just said that in the period 2013 - 2014 DGBOP has not worked for certain results of the work of the Ministry of Interior. Yes, but I remind you that at the time, DGBOP was in the structure of the State Agency "National Security." Do not turn out that the results of DGBOP in the structure of the SANS are better than its results when it is outside it. Please make such a reference and then speak about the drugs caught. Let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another stage or another series of bills to amend and supplement the Act on the Ministry of Interior, which is offered to us under the pretext of reforms. Reforms are characterized by two sub-elements: one issues are structural; the other issues that are intended to be solved are personnel. Along with the critical remarks that I have on the proposed bill, I cannot help but say that there are positive points that I will share with you. Personally, I support the removal of the Special Courier Service and its transfer to the State Commission for Information Security. Perhaps this time the ministry will find its proper place and this will be its last move after the series of relocations it has suffered over the years. However, I do not understand and it is incomprehensible to me the establishment of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population................................................. and the protection of the population........................................ In any case, the Minister of Interior shall exercise his control and management powers over this office. I don't understand why reform would increase the state of a given structure with additional administration. Because the order of additional functions that you will assign is related to the appointment of a general administration to this service. If you say that such employees will not be appointed, then what is the point in establishing a separate agency? Maybe someone's looking for another effect?! Another note in the proposed structural changes to the bill is the establishment and transformation of the Directorate of Property Management and Social Activities. Perhaps the Executive Agency will be the next in the government structure to engage in social activities for a certain category of civil servants. Perhaps there are some in the structure of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and there are a number of others. I wish, in this capacity, the Directorate would maintain its autonomy with a view to ensuring the social benefits of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, because they are actually using the opportunity created so. The base, built over the years with a number of governments, is on a good level. I would say it is perhaps the best, compared with such structures within other ministries. As for the changes related to the status of employees in the Ministry of Interior, I admire the creation of mobility conditions in the sector of security, whose foundations we laid together at the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016. With this Law this is extended and deserves the recognition that the changes are positive. As for the subject of changing the status of civil servants from the so-called administrative positions, I would recommend that you, and also the ruling majority, make use of not only from the point of view of the ruling coalition, but also from the opposition's expertise. Between first and second reading I will share with you our vision in which texts and how to refine these administrative posts. And the talkers mentioned that computer specialists, people who do analysis, maybe shouldn't be classified as such. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as regards the reduction of compensation for leaving and leaving the relationship, the issue and the problem here are not the employees who leave with 20 salaries in retirement. The main problem and burden for the structure of the Ministry of Interior are employees who acquire the right to pay after 5, 6 or 10 years of service. Therefore, our opinion and expertise, which I will then make as proposals, is that the Ministry of Interior and the Bulgarian State have invested in each of the officers and police officers long enough. It is not right for them to receive exit compensation after the first, after the second or after the third, but must be framed and categorized in a smooth manner the categories themselves, the possibilities and the bonification when leaving the Ministry of Interior system. Thus, the proposed bill enables even after one year, perhaps only after passing some training, you to be compensated in some form, for the state has invested both time and funds for the development of a frame in this direction. I am concerned by the fact that the Ministry imposes an obligation on each of its employees for professional qualification, but in fact the very change in the official characteristics and structure of civil servants risks deboning the spine by lecturers from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. Another unintelligible fact is in § 12................................................................................................ 41 are created, and I quote verbatim: In the performance of the functions the directors of the main directorates shall be assisted by an official who shall perform the functions of art. 34b, para. 1 in the main directorates, as well as other functions assigned to it by order of the Director. Why is this necessary and to whom is it necessary? Or does someone want to control precisely these specific functions in the various Directorates and Representations of the Ministry of Interior? Finishing his speech, according to the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this bill is chaotic, with some risks to the very functioning of the Ministry of Interior. I suggest that you concentrate in a personal capacity on more efficient management of a resource unit and increasing the security of Bulgarian citizens. Please allow for a longer period for proposals between first and second readings so that the bill can be adopted in a wide range of consensus, so that we do not look after one or two years from now the latest edition of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u55	Any lines to Mr. Etem? I won't. The word for speech has the popular representative Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u56	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, honourable Members! We will support the bill from the Reformation Block. I think he is one right step in the much needed reform of the Ministry of Interior. Of course, maybe more, but the first step has been taken. I hope the next ones follow. I have a few specific things that concern me in the Bill itself and on which we will most likely submit any changes or proposals for changes with colleagues, starting from § 13, Article 13. 41a and 41b, which says the Fire Department will be in a separate executive agency, which is generally quite positive, as it will allow the areas of the Directorates and departments of the Fire Department not to match those of the Ministry of Interior, which allows for greater flexibility. But personally, it bothers me that this agency will actually be subordinate to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, which as a solution is strange and I'm not sure it's the right thing to do. Another proposal, which is in art. 43 The district departments are proposed to have a chief of administration, but some of them are too small, and I think there may be no need in each of them to have such a chief of administration as they are small. There are such small managements. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55e describes the sources of revenue of the state enterprise as there will be, including donations as such a source, without specifying who these donations are from. You know, last year was a pretty big theme of donations, and I'm afraid of returning the practice of donations to the Ministry of Interior, but through the state enterprise. Maybe there should be some precision in that direction, too. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95a The housing powers of wandering persons in their homes for their accommodation shall be revoked. I personally couldn't understand the motives for this thing that has been done since 2015, and I am interested in why it is done, for what purpose. Another proposal, to which we have comments, is art. 135 that the Fire Department will not coordinate emergency plans and carry out checks on group protection funds. In my opinion, these are necessary powers that I cannot understand why they are being proposed to drop out. We have another proposal in art. 140a and 140b, I think other colleagues were talking about it, which envisions persons working for the Ministry of Interior on an employment contract to have such powers as police officers and authorities. It's strange for me that a man of employment has such powers. Article 34 152a is talking about tests on the quality of work in the Ministry of Interior, but it is strange that para. 3 provides that a test worker is not administratively responsible for his actions during the test, which I need some clarification. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 says state officials from the Ministry of Interior administration will be able to be appointed as police officers without a contest, which contradicts the stated idea by the governing majority itself for a competition start. In fact, art. 156a again somehow weakens this competition beginning, as it enables employees from other security services to be appointed to the Ministry of Interior without a competition. I would personally say to pay attention to this, as you as Deputy Prime Minister are also responsible for the administrative reform itself. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 defines 24-hour shifts as exceptions, but does not determine when this exception is applied, how it is objected, so I think there needs a little more information on how to do this. In § 84, there is a very interesting and, in fact, a strange proposal, the requests for disciplinary liability of reassigned employees are suspended. This means that if there is proceedings against an employee and he is reassigned somewhere else, his proceedings are terminated, which erases this disciplinary responsibility for those employees. § 89 extends the circle of persons from the Ministry of Interior and DANS, who will be able to request the use of the SRS against magistrates. For me it is adding additional people to this circle increases the risk of leaking information that there is such a SRS against a magistrate. Another proposal, I think, was mentioned again by colleagues, is for the employees who carry the correspondence, that they actually retain their rights as civil servants and still enjoy all privileges under the Ministry of Interior Act. I personally expected this not to be the case, to be treated as an administration. In § 99 again I cannot understand, at least the motives do not explain why the requirements of the Director of the Ministry of Interior are dropped. It is not clear from the reasons why these requirements are dropped. These are some of the comments that we have, perhaps with colleagues we will discuss how we would approach proposals, but in some of them more clarification is required what the idea of the proposal itself is. Overall, as I have said, the Law is a very right step in the much needed reform that has been expected for so long. You've taken it, this first step has been taken, but we must continue the steps, not stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines for the speaker? I won't. The non-member of the parliamentary group of MP Velizar Enchev is enrolled for a speech. Mr. Enchev, as you come to the stand, I would just like to draw your attention to you. You have in five minutes parliamentary speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! This Law, as loud as it sounds, is built on a lie, and when something is built on a lie, it is not stable and is not moral. I am referring to the following fact: during the police protests last year and this year, in the midst of the protests, the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, if I am not mistaken and Prime Minister Borisov himself, you gave in and guaranteed that you would not harm these social benefits of the Bulgarian policemen. It's about post-retirement salaries and paid annual leave. However, after police protests calmed down after the trade unions were sedated, to say that you were sleepy, you changed your mind and did not keep your word. It seems to me that with the adoption of this Law there will be discrimination on two lines within the Ministry of Interior and two categories of employees: first category, who retire with 20 salaries and will enjoy all the time of their service 30 days paid leave, and second category, I would say second-hand officers who will receive 12 salaries after retirement and their paid annual leave will be not 30 but 25 days. These two categories, figuratively speaking, of the patricias of the first category, and plebs of the second category, how do you, honourable Members, you, Madam Minister, when working in the field and know very well that they are uneven? This is the first inequality. The second inequality is between two systems. The system of the Ministry of Interior and the system of the Ministry of Defence. I do not plead for the application of this approach to the employees of the Ministry of Defence, but in fact I ask myself: why did the trade unions of the Ministry of Defence not show social solidarity to join the Union of the Ministry of Interior and support their demands? You did a very good line because such unions, unfortunately, in the Ministry and in the defense system are not. This is where the police will be hit after 1 January 2017 with the social benefits and, at the same time, the employees of the Ministry of Defence, the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service and the National Security Service remain in a privileged position in relation to this category of employees. And don't forget the magistrates who managed to preserve their social benefits. These are the two lines of social opposition, both within the Ministry of Interior and between the two systems, the Ministry of Interior's system and the Ministry of Defence's. Furthermore, it is very strange that your decision, which, unfortunately, will perhaps be supported by the plenary, that the lecturers at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior be deprived of their former...........................is not to say....the privileges.. but social benefits and the following paradox will be obtained: those who train police officers, the senior officers of the police will not have the status that their alumni have. By the way, the same discriminatory attitude, but with a positive sign, is to the Inspectorate's employees at the Ministry of Interior. Their interests in no way, as far as I understand, will not be affected. Finally, in order to be convincing, because the numbers are most convincing when we talk about the Bulgarian police officer.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Eight hundred leva gets the Bulgarian policeman, but after all deductions - 650 or about 340 euros. In Serbia, which we know what war he went through, the policeman receives 520 euros average wage plus a number of privileges that our police officers can dream of. In Albania, which we do not like to compare with, the average salary of the policeman is 440 euros, with exactly 100 euros higher salary than in Bulgaria. In Macedonia, the second Bulgarian state, 800 euros average salary for a Bulgarian police officer in Macedonia! I make these comparisons in order to express my solidarity with the Bulgarian police officer, I fully enter the situation of the people who, as I said, deserve our respect. I hope that between first and second reading we will all show reason and make changes that will respect the work of the Bulgarian policeman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have completed your speech in exactly five minutes. Anyone for a line? I won't. Are there any other interested parties who would like to take the floor with regard to the debated bill? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The patriotic front will support the bill. I just want to pay attention to some of the nonsense that have been said here. Especially from the unspeakable, if you don't understand, there's a syndicate in the Ministry of Defense. If he can point out where the trade union is in defence, he can point to it. The second thing that is important to know and I congratulate Minister Bachvarova as you justified my words in your appointment that women are bolder, for the first time in the Ministry of Interior through this bill an opportunity for an effective legal system is created. Something that none of the talkers dared to say. That is, in order to have an effective fight against domestic crime, we must also have an effective record of these signals by citizens in order to be able to work on them. That thing, unfortunately, nobody said it. My congratulations, Mrs. Bachvarova, and for what no one dared to say that the Bulgarian police were actually twice as numerous as the Bulgarian army. It was high time to start using the word "reform" and the Bulgarian words "transmitted change" in this direction, for which you receive my personal congratulations. Such a change was necessary, a modernization of the Bulgarian police was needed, as yesterday a decision was made to modernise the Bulgarian army. Nobody's done this thing in the last 25 years. No one dared to move this already squeaky and rusty machine called the Ministry of Interior. Congratulations! You're making this attempt that didn't dare make many of your predecessors. That is why we will support the bill. Naturally, between first and second readings, there are things that can be improved by common efforts of all colleagues. I think they'll be done. I will not refer to specific articles, as we adopt the Philosophy Bill in the first vote, and philosophy also determines direction. In my opinion, she's right as well as my colleagues. We will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs willing to take the floor? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! Colleagues, you know that the debate on the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior has caused serious political opposition. In this regard, the Internal Commission held a meeting in Velingrad a month and a half ago. We have had the opportunity with our fellow MPs from all parliamentary groups to discuss essentially the tabled bill and despite the differences, I think there are good proposals that are being made under the Ministry of Interior Act. [[Reply.]] Mr. Iankov, I'm telling you right now, I'm extending the powers of DGBOP. The transition of the Special Courier Service to DXI is the right solution because you gave the motive that in 2009 it was passed into the structures, into the system of the Ministry of Interior. She has always been in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, only in the management of the three coalition was moved to the newly established Ministry of State Administration. When the structure and staff were proposed in 2009 by the then Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, you know that this Ministry was closed and legally this activity was transferred to the structure of the Ministry of Interior. In relation to the future Presidency of Bulgaria in 2018, you know that this is the important step that will enable DXI to engage in personal activities and functions to be transferred to it. I believe that the proposal, which is being made about the possibility of police officers having police powers and currently guarding the premises of the Ministry of Interior, is an additional resource that the Ministry of Interior can use in the fight against domestic crime with the more serious police presence that can be organised in the country. You know that the numbers made as estimates by the Ministry of Interior, we are talking about about about 500 police officers who will immediately be able to enter into real fulfillment of these functional duties in the settlements will give breath. You know there's actually a shortage of police officers to have more police presence in the settlements. From what was announced yesterday in the news, you know that additional measures are currently being taken, purely organisational, with the posting of over 700 employees. The practice in the summer season is always to strengthen summer resorts with more police presence, so that guests who come to Bulgaria can feel safe in a more secure environment. Additional emergency measures are also being taken that are related to potential terrorist threats in the EU countries, and preventative action is being taken in this direction, which is once again necessary for more police presence. Of course, there are differences. I believe that the exposé made by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior very clearly and categorically stated that they comply with the proposals made in the debate that was led in the Internal Commission. I am convinced that in a constructive dialogue between first and second readings we will actually be able to find the optimal option for this sustainability in the system that we all want. For us, it is extremely important what has been made as a proposal by the respective MPs, to preserve the capacity of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and also the centres that train new police officers, because at the moment I am convinced that the Ministry of Interior has announced competitions, but this is the trend that will be made in the coming months and years, which will lead to more optimization of the teaching staff. Of course, and creating an opportunity for training to be complete, and for these employees to be able to obtain the appropriate capacity to carry out their police functions. I would also like to say that there has been a debate on the creation of the Fire Safety Agency and the protection of the population. I believe that the debate that has been led, and what has as more opinions in the Internal Commission, I think it may not be taken into account, to make relevant proposals between first and second readings and the Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection, to remain within the structure of the Ministry of Interior and to preserve the current vertical style of governance. There are good proposals in this direction. There are things that provoke political opposition, but I am convinced that with the joint efforts and the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, we can achieve this consensus. However, let us state that January 2015 was the road map for the ongoing reforms in the security sector, in particular in the Ministry of Interior. You know that with the legislative changes that have entered into force since February 2015 there have already been new employees from 1 April who are appointed to the administrative directorates under the new terms of the Ministry of Interior Act. They're civil servants, but they're category three. I think this is the right style so that we can actually stop with these speculations that our country has the most policemen per capita. With these changes being proposed at the moment, which I am convinced we will make all together in the discussions between first and second readings, it will be possible for actually the officers who have police functions and the employees who are in the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population................................................................................ GERB's parliamentary group will support the bill. I would like to call on the other parliamentary groups to do the same because, I assure you, between first and second reading, together with the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, we will make the necessary compromise to be to optimize the system of the Ministry of Interior, and, of course, for a greater service to society for security purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Merdjanov, within one minute. And 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, since the action of GERB and then Minister Vuchkov was so successful in January 2015, why did he have to be replaced after you then made the road map for the production development? So, it took a year and a few more months to get used to the disagreement of trade unions, the struggle of the various employees at the Ministry of Interior, the blaming in your committee, under your presidency, by the Law, to get to today's date. It is very clear to everyone that the ruling coalition has tamed those who disagree with this Law. This was demonstrated by Mr. Karakachanov, and Mr. Bajraktarov even surpassed by verbality Mr. Karakachanov, thanking Minister Bachvarova. There's something very strange about putting up with these passions and presenting everything as a good start. It's not like that in the Ministry, and you know it very well yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u65	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! Mr. Merdjanov, the road map and at the moment in the legislative changes that are being proposed, this is the implementation of what has been presented since January 2015. Of course, there are new proposals that have sparked the relevant debate, and that is why I called for that, between first and second reading, we will make the relevant proposals, of course, together, in line with the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, so that we can have texts that unite everyone, and create a sustainability for the system and not provoke tensions. Here we can also talk about the topic of leave, here we can also talk about the topic of compensation, but we must, in any case, give sustainability to the system and this happens after voting on the relevant legislative changes in the Ministry of Interior Act. As for Minister Vuchkov, I can say that he made his volition in this direction and I do not think that we should comment on a personal act of a decent person, such as Minister Vuchkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u67	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not support this bill and I would like to tell you that my position is not an opposition position, but a deep disagreement with the security policy in general, and in particular in the Ministry of Interior. This bill does not solve, but deepens the problems in the security system. I want to tell you that yesterday, here, all together, or most of us, we voted on a program for the re-arming of the glorious Bulgarian army and it was the right decision. The system at the Ministry of Interior is deeply unfunded, underfunded, and this is the big problem. Once we have found the strength to support this part of the security system, which must guarantee our external security, the Bulgarian Army, we must find the strength to find the funds to finance the country's internal security, because the underfunded internal system leads to severe demotivation of the composition and lack of results. Financial reserves cannot be sought and this can be at the expense of the social status of police officers. At the heart of this Bill, 36 pages is exactly what we need to find some financial reserves. At the expense of what? I don't want to repeat some of the pre-talkers about what imbalance occurs in the system, because some of its structural units will remain with a certain social status, and the Ministry of Interior will go down. I want to tell you that two of the main problems of the Ministry of Interior have not found any reflection in this bill. None! The first problem is the low-performance investigation of the Ministry of Interior. In this Bill, there is not a single text concerning any change in the organisation, the investigation system for collecting evidence of pre-trial proceedings. Because the effectiveness of this system must ultimately be expressed until pre-trial proceedings have been brought, indictments brought with good evidence. If you look at the statistics in this regard, you will see how low the investigation by the Ministry of Interior is because we have a poor qualification of investigative officers and nothing is done about this. Apart from that, the independence of investigative officers is not guaranteed. I'll give you an example from the last few days with the scandal that became known in the public domain that a lady investigating a police officer from DGBOP, in order to defend her honor, has filed a civil suit against the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic. Let them settle the matter in court there, but this shows that there are large deficits. I don't want to go any further. I have already mentioned it somewhere in public that there is in principle a debalance between the powers of the executive and the judiciary precisely in relation to the conduct of pre-trial proceedings, but this is another topic, I do not want to bother you with it. The other, the second problem, which is extremely difficult for the Ministry of Interior, is related to the career development of employees in the system. The employees are demotivated because the huge composition of this Ministry are honest and honest people and want to work for the state, but they are severely demotivated because the Ministry of Interior does not have a personnel policy, but is conducting a business trade. To grow up in this system today, you have to have connections with Zlatev, Domuschiev, Arabadzhiev and so on, or with the Sarai-library group. Last year, when we were changing the Law, the main beginning we introduced in the film policy was the competition beginning. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no competition in the Ministry of Interior and this is at the heart of the severe demotivation of employees, because they do not see a perspective in their development if they do their duties conscientiously, and they have to seek the appropriate patronage in order to obtain career growth, which is... I don't want to say any harsher words. Along with all these texts, I don't want to dwell here on the inexplicable desire for the fire department to become some particular structure, that no one can understand what it's doing, and I hope it doesn't happen, of course. By the way, several texts provide for the Interior Minister to delegate extremely important powers to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, mainly in chamber policy. Everyone at the Ministry of Interior today knows that the actual Cadrovik is the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. That's why we've come so far as to have key positions in the chiefs' system to appoint people with nicknames, like the Rado scheme, someone with I don't know what and so on. And now, through the Law, this personnel position will be formalized, which is unacceptable. On the basis of the Law it is written that the Minister of Interior is in charge and responsible for personnel policy and so on and so forth. Once again, I would like to tell you that the main problem of the Ministry is a lack of effectiveness in the collection of evidence and of the investigation, and there is nothing on this subject in this bill. So I see this agreement here, which took place, to support this Bill, because security policy is guided directly by the Prime Minister and must be supported. Back her up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u69	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. A line on Mr. Atanasov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Madam Minister, you've already spoken. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] I won't. We're closing the debate. Voting regime, honourable Members. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the Chamber, we vote in one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u70	I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 158 MPs: 116, against 30, abstention 12. The proposal is adopted, and with this, the first vote and the Bill. We move on to the second item scheduled for today under the decision voted on earlier this morning to extend the legislative part of this plenary until the debate and vote are closed: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. They came by letter No 654-02-41 to 51 proposals for changes in the compositions of the Standing Committees, according to the distribution by parliamentary groups. Since there is a link between the decisions, I will read all the draft decisions, then we will make the debate and will be put to the vote separately accordingly. The first group of proposals for amendments to the composition of permanent committees are from Mrs Krasimira Kovatchka and a group of MPs, according to the order of their submission to the National Assembly: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Rosen Petrov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Yavor Iliev Haytov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. He elected Rosen Petrov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. 2. He elected Petar Ivanov Petrov as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. 2. He elected Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. 2. He chose Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member and chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member and chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. By letter No 654-02-48 from Mr. Krasimir Velchev on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB he submitted the following Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov as a member of the Energy Commission. Mr. Krasimir Velchev is the importer. This is about a colleague who last took an oath as a Member of the National Assembly. Proposal from the management of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Angel Naydenov signed: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1.Releases Mihail Raykov Mikov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Second Project for a Decision by Mr. Angel Naydenov: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Mikhail Raykov Mikov as member and Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly. The proposals submitted shall take into account the allocation between the parliamentary quota groups in the relevant committees and shall result from a decision of the parliamentary groups. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Hristo Grudev Grudev as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Importer: Krasimir Velchev. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I owe an apology to the Chamber and the entire Chamber of the National Assembly for dealing with all of you with the problems of the BDZ Parliamentary Group, but I think that when decisions are made, they must be informed, they must be justified, especially when voting on the plenary. So you will allow me to brief you on what is happening, and the decision is, of course, in plenary. First, the procedure. A meeting of the BDZ Parliamentary Group on which this issue has been resolved has not been held. This usually happens in every parliamentary group when such changes are made, because everyone is probably wondering why this big rearrangement is in the BDZ group. Such a meeting has not been held. The draft decision, which is quite right.. any MP can submit a draft decision, is signed by the members of the parliamentary group, who are also members of Dr. Kovatchka's party. So much for the procedure. In other words, do not get the impression that this is a result of the redistribution of seats within the parliamentary group made with the relevant decisions. Second of all, a little bit more to the point. I think it's appropriate to talk about it when we choose members of one or several parliamentary committees. First of all, the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interest Committee. As you know, this Commission is monetary, that is, each parliamentary group has two seats in the Commission. Within the BDZ one representative had the parties BDZ and People's Union. Both seats are currently proposed to be occupied by the BDZ party. I find it difficult to explain this unhealthy interest in this Commission. Secondly, changes to the Internal Security and Public Order Commission. A former Deputy Minister of the Interior is being taken out, a man with outstanding experience in this area and we are proposing perhaps the future Minister of the Interior. I do not know, at least there were such proposals, you know, from a previous leader of a political power. I won't speak on the third topic because it concerns me personally. I don't think I should take any part in this. Let the plenary not be under the impression that this is a regular decision-making process and a routine change in committees, as most parliamentary groups do. I'll leave the conclusions to you. They impose certain conclusions on why now, why Dr. Kovachka at this very moment has decided to do this big rearranging, what motivates her and what explains her drive towards the institutions of the National Assembly, all the more so that several representatives of her party in different institutions have been selected in the last few months. The conclusions, as I said, remain with you. I think the decision today will also show the attitude of each parliamentary group to this issue, to who, how and how it should work in the National Assembly, in individual committees. This was the information I owed to the plenary. Thank you and I look forward to your vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u72	- What's the line? I won't. There's a word for it, Dr. Kovachka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I apologize that on a tense day we will be wasting time working for the parliamentary group, but I think democracy should be supported. The internal displacements of our representatives in the parliamentary committees are not in principle a basis for particular interest and cannot cause any shock in the work of these committees. Conversely, we take them only with the idea of optimizing the work in these committees, to have more transparency and to make collective decisions in our positions on important issues. The decision itself is adopted in compliance with all the rules and principles of parliamentary practice and with the required majority in the group. All decisions of the BBC Parliamentary Group shall be taken in accordance with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, respectively of the Parliamentary Group. Talks about changes in the composition of committees have been held in the parliamentary group for several months and have been discussed at dozens of meetings. After refusing to reach consensus on the part of our colleagues, a meeting was held and were put to the vote and adopted in accordance with the requirements of our Rules of Procedure, the decisions we offer to your attention. According to the Parliamentary Group's Rules of Procedure, this is sufficient reason for them to be put to the vote in plenary. The reluctance of the smaller part of the group, such as the People's Union, not to sign the minutes of the meeting is no reason why this should not happen. The objection that the decision is legally inadmissible is absurd. If that were the case, it would not have been allowed to vote in plenary. Although it is a majority in the parliamentary group, the Bulgarian Democratic Center Party so far has less presence in the committees, while Members of the People's Union have: two chairmen of parliamentary committees in the face of Mr. Rumen Yonchev, who is Chairman of the Committee on Politics for Bulgarians abroad, a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, a member of the delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and Chairman of the Friendship Group with South Africa. Mr. Svetlin Tanchev is Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Yavor Haytov is a member of two committees: the Committee on Legal Affairs, a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and Chairman of the Friendship Group with Vietnam. Our desire for changes in committees is dictated only by our desire to respect the basic principle of democracy. The majority can conduct their policies through the mechanisms that the parliamentary republic provides for it. I am surprised by the reaction of fellow Members of the People's Union who believe that solving the issues in the group should be done through the media instead of a meeting and by voting, as is the rule of law. For me, it's a sign of low political hygiene. Threats of leaving and destroying the group by the People's Union are an attempt to twist hands not only of the BDZ, but also of parliamentaryism as a whole, which will not be held hostage by the BDZ Party. My fellow Members, I have also taken the liberty of making a reference to the work of the MPs from our parliamentary group from the Bulgarian Democratic Center there are 8 MPs. Since the first day of the Forty- Third National Assembly, I have so far tried to see the position of every MP from the parliamentary group on every law and on every point. I think you'll all see these results. I'm sorry if I wasted your time! I think parliamentaryism is above us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u74	Any lines to Mrs. Kovachka? Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u75	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I also thank Mrs. Kovatchka for reading us her speech from the ARC yesterday. As far as the procedure is concerned, I would still like to make it clear that such a meeting of the parliamentary group has not been held, because otherwise I should be at that meeting or at least be invited to it. So there can only be a vote when there is a parliamentary group and when there is a meeting. As for the other statements made by Mrs Kovatchka, I have not written a list, but I think you all know that, of the last three elections in the National Assembly, of a member of the KEWRC, of a member of the CEM and of a member of the Board of Fiscals, representatives who were elected by the BDZ, are from Mrs Kovachka's party. I don't think we need to count our positions here. I don't know if this is the right thing to do. Again, I apologize to the plenary that this should be part of the debate here. I'm done with this, and I really have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u76	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! I'll be very brief. I see that not only the colleagues of our parliamentary group, but many others, sometimes we forget what democracy is. I would like to remind you that democracy does not mean to gather three wolves and one lamb and decide what they eat for dinner. That's all I wanted to tell you. Thank you. [[(Radio.) Announcements from the BBC: Bravo! Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u78	That was a second line. There's no third. Would you use a hole, Dr. Kovatchka? No. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Radan Kanev. [[Radio, noise, cheering, partial applause.]] The hall welcomes you with applause, Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, please! [[Radio.]] Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u79	Madam President, colleagues, thank you for your attention. I don't know what this weird item on the agenda is due to. I would not comment on this rather unworthy precedent, which we have witnessed, a parliamentary group dealing with from the stand. At least we're doing it through the media, like we were joking now,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u80	And in the towers of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u81	... which is still somewhat more respectful to the other colleagues in parliament. I wouldn't speak if it wasn't very clear in this House this so common for the forty-third parliament silent consensus, this insanity to be supported. All of us here know that this proposal is actually being made to pass, not to give us a show Mr. Yonchev and Mrs. Kovachka from the stands. As soon as it passes, the forty-third parliament will have set a precedent which.. for a quarter of a century, all sorts of nonsense and nonsense have been committed, unfortunately, in this Chamber, but this has not been done.. other parliamentary groups to intervene in the squabbles of a parliamentary group, to replace with the votes of the parliamentary majority the inability of one of the groups to make their own political decisions. This is a drastic violation of a quarter-century parliamentary tradition on a petty conjunctural occasion, a violation that will have its action on top of it for a few days, as many of you may have guessed. It won't even have a continuation in time, only the precedent will remain. Colleagues from GERB, once again I say this: this type of thing will sooner or later turn against you and will be used by political opponents, who will likely be more antipathetic and more ruthless, will do it in a nasty way, after today you give them the opportunity through this political precedent. It's a very wrong decision. Very wrong!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u82	Are there any lines for Mr. Kanev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev. [[(Noise and lines: (E-e-e-e!)]] Dear colleagues, please, I can't hear Mr. Kadyev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u83	I haven't started talking yet, Madam President, how can you hear me?! [[Laughter]] Dear colleagues of GERB, this statement is especially for you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u84	What do we have in common?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u85	I very much remember the speeches of Mr. Boyko Borisov, who says: "I do not meddle in foreign parties and you do not meddle in mine. What you are doing today is a form of political engineering. You're growing opposition. You were able to break the Reformation Block, you were able to create problems in the DPS. [[Sound and lines from AG of GERB]] , you have managed to create problems now and at the BDZ [[GERB noise and lines]] , the other political parties are on their way with a single goal to raise a comfortable opposition. If anyone here has to answer today, it's Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. [[Sound and lines from AG of GERB]] Because he was the man who got up and said:..We want an extension of the time to the first and second point. Because the first and second points are very important for our parliamentary practice? No, because he stands at the heart of what's happening. First, this is punishment for this group of BDZs, which went to some meetings and negotiations with ABB for a common future presidential candidacy. Is that why you're punishing them? Is that your problem? There can be no such parliamentary practice! Tomorrow these colleagues will leave the parliamentary group, then there will be eight people who will have to fall apart, then what will they do? Will they go to Anna Barakova to search for her voice to make 10 votes and have a parliamentary group of BDZ?! [[Noise and lines from SG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u86	That's not an option.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u87	We enter a spiral of buying and selling votes only to keep parliamentary groups and to have coalition partners of GERB. That's what you're doing right now! A political party cannot interfere with other political parties! That's exactly what you're doing, Mr. Tsvetanov. This is the result of your efforts. You will see when the vote comes, who will support these things. This is not because there was a decision of the parliamentary group, but because colleague Yonchev said: "There is no decision of the parliamentary group. This is a penal action you're in! Thank you. [[Applause from non-members in PG.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u88	- What's the line? For the first line, Radan Kanev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u89	Dear Mr. Kadyev, I have two disagreements with you. First of all, do not insult the Reformation Bloc.. It is not his fault GERB, it is not our fault GERB. What we've done to each other, we're doing it to ourselves. Secondly, with regard to the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, things are more serious than you say, and perhaps they should be said more directly. The direct political interest of the biggest Bulgarian energy oligarch with the votes of the democratic majority in the Bulgarian Parliament is to be served. That's the drama that's coming. [[Comments from AG of GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u90	How did you come up with that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u91	Second line? I won't. Mr. Kadyev, would you like to use the back? No. Mr. Tsvetanov wants the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, you are not honored to speak this way, because just to say that when you left BSP left Bulgaria, they accused me that I contributed to your exit. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]] In the same way Mr. Radan Kanev for being separated from the general policy of the government and not behind the stability of the state, but undertook to satisfy his personal ambitions with the exit from the Reformation bloc, believe that the parliamentary group of GERB does not interfere in the political life of any other political formation in the Bulgarian Parliament. You, Mr. Kadiev, had a personal decision to leave BSP left Bulgaria. Each parliamentary group shall have its political decisions which shall be submitted to Parliament's Office and shall be voted on in plenary. I believe that this is not serious and perhaps satisfy your personal ambitions again in some direction, but they do not correspond to reality. Let us remember that when we took an oath as MPs in the Forty- Third Parliament, you know that GERB and the Parliamentary Group of GERB were the one that proposed to the Presidential Council that all parliamentary groups should have their representation in the positions of the relevant specialized committees in parliament. I think that this was right because each parliamentary group has its representativeness from the Bulgarian voters and they should have the dignity of representation in the relevant committees, and not be as it was in the 40th and second Parliament when GERB was not involved in any committee's leadership. Parliamentaryism and parliament are a sample of the Bulgarian voters who represent the respective votes they have given to support a political formation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this direction, we will stand by a decision to vote behind each proposal for changes to the committees that are given to the relevant parliamentary groups. Please don't involve GERB or me personally in any such things. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u93	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u94	Thank you. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u95	Are there any other MPs willing to participate? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] You spoke, you mentioned it by name, and in this regard he took the floor for a personal explanation. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put it to the vote: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights 1. Releases Rosen Petrov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. They voted 122 MPs: 94, against 13, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee 1. He released Yavor Iliev Haytov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. He elected Rosen Petrov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. They voted 121 MPs: 94, against 13, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act 1. Releases Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as Commissioner. 2. He elected Petar Ivanov Petrov as Commissioner. Vote 117 MPs: 92 against 11, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Committee on Parliamentary Ethics 1. He released Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev as a member of the Commission. 2. He elected Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as Commissioner. Vote 120 MPs: 93 against 13, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy 1. Releases Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. 2. He chose Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Vote 120 MPs: 93, against 12, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad 1. Releases Rumen Marinov Yonchev. 2. He elected Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member and chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. They voted 118 MPs: 91 against 12, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly elects Hristo Grudev Grudev as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Vote 126 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Reply from SG of BSP LB.]] I read them, there are three proposals of GERB "Hristo Grudev Grudev, Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova and Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov" after a while. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly elects Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. ............................................... They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly elects Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov as a member of the Energy Commission. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. The following are the two drafts for a decision on changes in the composition of committees from the quota of the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria. ? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly releases Mihail Raykov Mikov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Vote 127 MPs: 125, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the State Administration The National Assembly elects Mikhail Raykov Mikov as member and Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted, and with this first and second point. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for extending the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the bill adopted today amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u97	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for maximum extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The Prime Minister, deputy prime ministers and ministers are waiting for more than 40 minutes. [[Loud noise and lines.]] New requests for the period from 27 May to 2 June 2016 from: - National Representative Willi Lilkov to Vezdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, about the state of the Albotin Monastery and the intentions of the Ministry of Culture for its conservation and development. A reply should be made in writing by 13 June 2016; - National Representative Radan Kanev to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister, on the policy of the government to implement the recommendations of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism for a comprehensive independent analysis of the activities of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the continuation of judicial reform. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 10 June 2016; - MPs Petar Slavov, Ivan Ivanov and Martin Dimitrov to Ljiljana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the Development of Danube Municipalities. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 10 June 2016. Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova of two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question by Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a request from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Stefani Mihailova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to three questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Georg Georgiev and Milena Damyanova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u98	Why do you read them when they're not in the room?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u99	Because I can't know if they're here until I've read them. That's why I have to read them all, and you're right they're gone, Mr. Lazarov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, a declaration. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eeeee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u100	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs! I will present a position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria on the two new loans that the government of Boyko Borisov submitted yesterday to the National Assembly. Two new loans in the amount of a billion and two hundred million levs, which are additional to those sixteen billion other than those sixteen billion, and represent a new debt of Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Borisov, you'll probably be tempted to tell me that everything I'm about to say is Plamen Oresharski's fault. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Do not do this, please, as I am prepared with numbers and facts to tell you that you have taken CTB by 2 billion. BGN, and at your time there were seven. [[GERB lines.]] So pay attention to the subject that we are raising without transferring responsibility to previous governments. Because we have a problem, honourable MPs! Bulgaria has a problem! [[Comments from GERB. Proclaims: "You have a problem! "]] The government of Boyko Borisov has a problem and transfers it to the people, and it is this: when the problem with KTB became, the government gave away 1 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. a loan to the Guarantee Fund to repay the debt. The government of Boyko Borisov has vowed loudly that it will collect what was stolen, will find a company that will return the money to KTB, will return it to the Guarantee Fund and the Fund will restore it to the budget. You couldn't handle it. [[Reply from the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] Rhetorical question: why don't you want to collect this money and return what was stolen from KTB? And because you're not handling this, yesterday you submitted a proposal to the Budget Committee to take a new loan of 1 billion. 200 million. lv. One from the World Bank, one from the European Development Bank, the Guarantee Fund to take these loans, the state provides absolute state guarantees for them and the Fund to return that money to the budget. I say again, instead of collecting what was stolen from KTB, you owe the Bulgarians another billion and two hundred. How does this happen? Firstly, in absolute violation of all the laws in the state, the new loan has been submitted to the Budget Committee without any financial justification and explanation of how this will affect the state and the standard of the people, how much more money they will have to pay back. By the way, dear Bulgarians, at the moment each of you owes 30% of what you have worked. So is the debt of Bulgaria. If you made 100 leva, thirty are no longer yours. With this new loan the government of Boyko Borisov burdened you with more debt over these thirty, without any financial justification why and how this is done. Secondly, it is said that there is a surplus in the budget of two billion, the sixteen billion majority has authorised it. Where's that money for taking on a new debt?! Where did you spend the overpaid and the sixteen billion debt that the majority granted to themselves? Thirdly, why, if you have to do this and tell someday why you do it: why you do it with external banks and not with the Bulgarian banking system in which they have over 800 million last year. lv. A profit, and for this year, it's even more? Fourth, why was there not a single representative of BNB in the Commission, not a single representative of the Fund for Guarantee of Claims? The Minister of Finance quietly submitted it yesterday to the Budget Committee.. to go so unnoticed, by the way. There is no opinion either from BNB, from the Bulgarian banks or from the Guarantee Fund. Therefore, our firm position: we condemn the ongoing attempts of this government to increase Bulgaria's debt every day! Mr. Prime Minister, think ahead, not from today to tomorrow! Someday that money will have to come back. The thought and management of the principle after us and the flood is detrimental to Bulgaria and future generations. Besides, you know who said that? [[Applause, livening in GERB. Minister Goranov enters.]] You called him here very quickly. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u101	He'll explain to you that this isn't government debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u102	This is the debt of the Guarantee Fund, for which you give a state guarantee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u103	It's not government debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u104	But you're giving a government guarantee, which means [[GERB loud noise]] that this billion and 200 you are blocking them in the budget as a government guarantee for this loan. I'm done with this. On principle, a state is not governed after us and a flood. You know who said that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u105	We saw that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u106	Open each encyclopedia to see what is said about this ruler and his rule: squandering and populism. BSP left Bulgaria will strongly oppose the fact that you are bringing Bulgaria into a debt spiral, that you are burdening three four future generations to repay your loans, that you spend everything without having an effect either in economics or in incomes or in social policy. That's why every day of this government is a disaster for the state. The outcome of this work: early elections! [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee!" by GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u107	On behalf of the parliamentary group Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u108	Can't Minister Goranov explain...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u109	No, Mrs. Karayancheva has the right. Yes, the minister could explain that he's been waiting for control for an hour and hasn't been called urgently. We'll give him a chance to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u110	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's clear that BSP's on its way to a raid to bring down the government. Only with lies and manipulation, that's not gonna happen. And after last Friday, when we heard the declaration here, I decided that... We all laughed at what the BSP read...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u111	What were you laughing at?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u112	But I think today we have to tell the truth and it's this. As the people say, if it is true that short memory guarantees long life, you BSP colleagues have guaranteed immortality! [[Arrival in GERB.]] How else can we explain your crocodile tears for spent and unused euro money when the historical merit for freezing the funds in 2008 was precisely yours? [[Applause from GERB.]] I understand Mrs. Ninova's ambitions to lead the Socialists on a crusade against the ruling majority, despite the apparent uneven ratio of forces. But neither the citizens nor the beneficiaries of European projects, which you irresponsiblely call thieves, incompetents and even less the image of Bulgaria in front of the European institutions that all of us in this House are interested in maintaining, instead of cunningly rubbing our hands. I also do not understand this pseudo-care of BSP for the spent euro funds. After the Oresharski government gave away millions of money for stadiums where there were no young people and the only cut film of it was at the Bulgarian restaurant in Beijing... [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] That has one word... Well, Beijing's in Vietnam. [[Laughter]] Where there is one word, those who want the most praise are the poorest of deeds. You do not use aggressive party rhetoric as a fig leaf to conceal your expert and electoral weakness, gentlemen of the BSP! What GERB has built, passed, sanitized, there is no analogue in the 25-year history of Bulgaria. It can be seen and touched, it's real, it's usable and it brings an added value, and it brings a higher quality of life. And your sarcasm for crappy construction is inappropriate and false because you don't have under your mandate, during the time of Oresharski, stone on stone complex, you don't have a shovel of asphalt thrown! [[Voice on "Ehehe! " by BSP LB.]] Before inflating the balloons with the samples from OLAF, just to tell you: open and read what it says right there, instead of reading diagonally and you will see that Bulgaria is neither OLAF's only client nor is a record player in euro fraud. And the proceedings initiated following checks are three times less than those of Romania and two times less than those of Belgium and Italy. But that is not the issue, but the responsibility of the government and the state to expose fraud and to exercise control, not to sweep them under the carpet. Let's remind ourselves of the scandals - Brother and Brother - the affair of Hoheger - the cases of Sapard - exactly those cases that are currently open and being investigated in OLAF. Don't waste your time, socialist colleagues! There is someone to take care of the Bulgarian taxpayer. As for the investments in municipalities, as you said a few days ago, you didn't have any left. So you don't have to manage their money. So calm down and spare us the Komsomol brigadier plan! The state is neither on autopilot nor on parking brake. The economy is in growth and these are not naked claims, but facts. Reference "Source of Eurostat." As much as you don't like that you have no contribution. Despite the movement in the party ranks and the enthusiasm with which you are about to storm power, now is not the time for a coup, nor will you have the strength to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u113	Is it up to you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u114	You're gonna have to march on the plaza for a long time, guys. And there's no point in measuring whether the state machine is moving fast or slow, because you won't have to control it! Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB. Replies from BSP LB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u115	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Gechev. [[Relations between MPs from BSP LB and Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Please, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! We strongly object in the manner of conduct, because you, Madam President, did not intervene! Everything that the colleague Karayancheva said is as true as her amazing statement that Beijing is the capital of Vietnam. Good morning! We have a new geography. And as for the suspension of funds, this is also amazing. There was only a suspension of a programme in connection with a violation of the procedures of Europe by the mayor of Burgas, from the town hall. Secondly, regarding the renewal of the European funds, it clearly states in OLAF's report that we are in the troika of Europe, second in open procedures for breaking the law! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is about speeding up the absorption of EU funds by cats, agromachas and other known and unknown characters. So answer our statement today, and don't send us back to Vietnam and China, and tell me why the government debt has doubled, for a few years you've been chasing 30% and putting us in a debt spiral? What do you rule?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u117	In the way I'm being led, not the parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u118	16 billion, Madam President! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u119	This is not the subject of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u120	You come here every week with new billions!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u122	Don't let yourself be lied to! Stop stealing! [[(Sighs!) by GERB. Claps by BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u123	How many did you rob?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u124	Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Gechev, if I start interfering, I must speak only myself from this tribune, the way you want it. I do not think this will be a contribution to parliamentary democracy. Are there any other declarations from other parliamentary groups? I won't. Mr. Goranov, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u125	What question is he going to answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u126	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Donchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u127	On the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u128	Read the rules, Mr. Yankov! Read the rules! Any minister and member of the government may at any time in the plenary sitting, whenever he so requests, take the floor. My only pass is that I didn't limit his time. Ten minutes, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u129	I think I'll fit in less. Thank you for the opportunity to dispel traditional speculation on the subject of state funding. What the coworkers quote would be disturbing if it were true. The two guarantee agreements the government has proposed are coherent and a large part of the negotiations are conducted precisely by the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks. What is the idea of this financing operation, which undoubtedly, except for the off-balance sheet commitment to be guaranteed by the State, this loan to the Fund, in order to obtain better from the current of the State yield with which the Fund is financed, is entirely in support of the Strategy to stabilise the financial system which collapsed in the previous term. [[BSP LB.]] Fact! Statistical fact! [[BSP LB.]] When the financial system of the state is shaken. This can be seen and chronologically traceable. When we took over the management, the last time I spoke on this topic, I spoke for 45 minutes in the fiscal reserve, there were amounts that did not allow the state to be financed normally. When we took over, the minimum fiscal reserve was around 5 billion in November 2014. By 31 May the fiscal reserve of the country was 11.5 billion. The so-called multi-year agreement, which you comment on, the famous point of reference for 16 billion, we are far from reaching this number and the work we are doing right now. [[BSP LB lines]] We're getting further and further away. Because I can quote you statistics on international companies dealing in tobacco trade. It will be very clear to see the period in which the state was missing. You can see the levels of smuggled tobacco products in Bulgaria in 2013 and 2014. She's a lot older than she is now. I suppose the Prime Minister can quote even more correct data in this regard, as the reference is in it. [[Relations of MP Philip Popov.]] What I wanted to pay attention to is not my job as a finance minister to speak politically, but I did not see so, unfortunately, colleagues in any of your speeches from the last month to two, when you are trying with populism to raise your forces in your party and to set them up revolutionaryly, I did not see, unfortunately, any better proposal than what we are now doing. No better solution for the economy, no better solution for public life! In this sense, as long as the debate is conducted with such methods, we do not have much interest in participating in it. And the moment you propose a better solution than the decisions we propose, we are ready to debate about them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u130	Thirty billion, is that right? Instead of six, thirty?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u131	Mr. Gechev, in front of the students! [[Applause from GERB.]] What I wanted to tell you is that I am prepared to conduct this debate with you professionally, but with the real categories, not the way you do, replacing the truth. [[Applause from GERB. People's representative Rumen Gechev is on his way to the stands. Replies from BSP LB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u132	Colleagues, as it goes today, there will be no parliamentary control!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u133	I have a right, I have a right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u134	You have the floor, two minutes for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u135	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Goranov, I thank you for the wonderful opportunity that students are currently listening to and watching what is happening, and what is happening, Mr. Minister, outside of trying to veil what is going on, is that you voted 16 billion in three years and are absorbing them at a hundred percent. Not a penny less! You bet 5 billion and 300 million, you're pulling for the world, now you want another 1 billion. and 200 million, so students listen and are very critical. You enter, bury Bulgaria in a financial spiral every day. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u136	Statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has the word Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u137	Madam President, Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! A month ago, we alerted the National Assembly about a major problem related to the Bulgarians abroad, namely that Bulgarian citizenship in the Ministry of Justice denied the right of the Bulgarians from Macedonia and other countries to be Bulgarians. This is a surprising fact for us, given that, since the beginning of the mandate of this government and of the National Assembly, all regimes agreed between different institutions have been made and the procedure has been normal. At one point, politics in the Ministry of Justice and in our services has obviously changed towards the Bulgarians in Macedonia. This is inexplicable to us. The right of the people of Macedonia is denied, although they have even documents and relatives of Bulgarian origin, who are Bulgarian citizens, to receive Bulgarian citizenship, which is given to them by the Constitution and by the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. It is clearly stated that Bulgarians of origin receive Bulgarian citizenship under a light regime. Now what do we get? The Department of Citizenship of the Ministry of Justice offers dozens and dozens of people from Macedonia, who are denied the right to be Bulgarians and Bulgarian citizens, but at the expense of dozens and dozens of citizens of the Republic of Turkey, deprived of Bulgarian citizenship. For us, it is amazing what threatens national security more the Bulgarians from Macedonia to receive Bulgarian citizenship, although they are Bulgarians, or Turkish citizens, who are already unclear how much are influenced by Erdogan's neo-Osmanist policy, their Bulgarian citizenship is restored? That's an inexplicable fact. We of the Patriotic Front insist that this problem be resolved as soon as possible. It is unacceptable for the Bulgarian state to deny the Bulgarians abroad. It is unacceptable for the descendants of the Bulgarian revolutionaries from Macedonia, the descendants of the Bulgarian revivalists from Macedonia nowadays to deny them the right to be Bulgarians, although there is a special Law that shows what is the Bulgarian origin of these people, which is not respected, although there are documents issued by a state authority that are Bulgarians of origin. That is why we insisted that the Director of the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship at the Ministry of Justice be removed. This is a person who works against the national interests of the Bulgarian state. The laws and the Constitution cannot be violated in free and democratic Bulgaria. This is unacceptable! We want this problem and this case to be resolved soon and all these files of Bulgarians abroad, which have been terminated since 2013, to be re-examined and to have justice for these people. We must do it for the memory of all those who have died for the freedom of these territories. A large part of the National Assembly and the government are descendants of such people who are refugees from different parts of the Bulgarian lands. That is why we are calling on the Bulgarian government. We have had several meetings with the ministers of justice and the deputy ministers of justice, but, unfortunately, this case has not been resolved. We also call on the Prime Minister to solve this problem because we are already seeing how Bulgarians abroad and their organizations have started to react widely to the fact that they are denied the right to be Bulgarians and are denied the right to be Bulgarian citizens. We therefore call for real measures to be taken and this problem to be resolved. It is inexplicable to us how it is possible for some people to obtain citizenship, although they have no documents and no reason to receive it, and other people who have reason and are Bulgarians of origin are denied it. That is why we in the Patriotic Front insist that this case be resolved more quickly and that there is justice for our countrymen abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u138	We are moving on to the answers of Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister. First he will answer a question from the MP Yavor Haytov concerning the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, dear Madam and Vice Prime Minister! My question is this. Mr. Prime Minister, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, under your direct authority is the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. What and how many signals of corruption of executive bodies and civil servants in a leadership position by the administration of the Council of Ministers has examined and verified the structure you are managing, namely the Chief Inspectorate? According to the functions of the above rules of the Council of Ministers, i.e. 12 is indicated that the Chief Inspectorate shall be accountable annually for its activities as Prime Minister. Introduce us within the time allowed for parliamentary control with the activities of the Inspectorate in 2015 what activities did he conduct in relation to anti-corruption policy? I ask this question in the spirit of the controversial and possibly voted Law on the fight against corruption on the high levels of power and functions as a whole of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u140	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov! Before the answer I just want to read, I have now extracted data from the official statistics from the National Statistical Institute for 2013. Mr. Gechev, you can check immediately. 2013 "17.1% debt compared to gross domestic product." This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. ' 27% debt compared to gross domestic product. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 26.7%, i.e. You can see that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u142	That's after the caretaker government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u143	2014 is after the caretaker government!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u144	Thank you. Statistics speak. If we go back in time, we'll get to data that you won't enjoy. Of course, I don't want to waste my time with it. Ms. Karayancheva, don't enter these debates, they're not productive. People have learned them, they know them, they won't forget them. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Haytov, the period 1 January - 31 December 2015 ... [[Extreme noise and lines from BSP LB.]] What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u145	Colleagues, please, the answer to Mr. Haytov begins.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u146	Okay, from the next time you start reading declarations, I'm going out. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u147	There's a possibility of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u148	Mr. Yankov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u149	Thank you. [[Extreme noise and lines from BSP LB.]] A total of 105 signals were received at the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers in the period 1 January 2015 and 78 were forwarded to institutions related to them and 34 were examined by the Chief Inspectorate. In 18 of the alerts, no information is available on the persons against whom they have been submitted and no checks have been carried out on them. For 16 of the signals by my orders, checks have been assigned. 12 alerts shall contain information on actions or omissions of staff holding expert posts and 4 shall provide data on corruption of executive bodies and civil servants in senior positions, namely: First, a signal of violations in the Ministry of Health during a competition for the award of the management of the specialized hospitals for rehabilitation, National Complex "EAD," Sofia. Sofia and the subsequent actions to register changes in the circumstances of the trading company's account in the Commercial Register to the Registry Agency. As a result of the verification, the Commission has been alerted to prevent and establish a conflict of interest, the State Data Protection Commission and the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. Secondly, a signal of committed violations for employees in the administration of the Council of Ministers on the occasion of the sale of gold and silver coins The results of the inspection have been signalled by the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office and the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest. Third, a report of violations committed by the Inspectorate to the Minister of Finance. The results of the inspection have been notified to the Minister of Finance. Fourth, an alert for infringements in the Registry Agency when entering or declaring acts by company accounts. The results of the inspection have been notified to the Minister of Justice. Control of the administration's activities is extremely important both to establish efficiency in the work and to counter and prevent corruption. The establishment and implementation of effective mechanisms for administrative control over the activities of the administration is one of the main objectives of the process for modernization of the Bulgarian administration. In the performance of the statutory functions, the Chief Inspectorate shall carry out planned and out-of-plan inspections. In 2015, a total of 25 inspections were carried out by the Chief Inspectorate, of which nine were planned and 16 were out of plan. The activities of specific directorates from the administration of the Council of Ministers, of regional administrations, of state agencies at the Council of Ministers and of ministers inspectors were followed in the planning checks. Data contained in alerts against persons holding public posts whose body of choice or appointment is the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister for the use of office or influence in the private interest have been verified in the extra-plan checks. A summary of the information from the alerts received in 2015 in the Chief Inspectorate found that there was an increase in the number of alerts on illegal acts or omissions of administrative officers compared to the previous two years, respectively a decrease in the number of alerts on corruption compared to the previous two years. To improve the work of the administration and prevent corruption in the course of the inspections, specific proposals are given by the Chief Inspectorate: updating the regulations, specialized training for prevention of corruption for employees, strict compliance with the laws and regulations promoting the activities of human resources management and others. The annual activity report of the Chief Inspectorate for 2015 and the summary report on the results of the Inspectorate's checks are published on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u150	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u151	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, from the figures you have drawn, Prime Minister, it has become clear that the Inspectorate has examined only 34 files, which, for the total number of employees, makes less than 3 files per year. I think it's a very small burden on this administrative department, and it's important because fighting corruption is up to date. You know that we are also debating this on the forthcoming bill to be dealt with. I'm curious that the signals aren't anonymous, something that seems important to me. I will continue to monitor the work of this administrative unit and the work of the inspectors in all ministries, because when we talk about fighting corruption, we easily and lightly transfer the ball, as they say in football jargon, into the prosecution's field. However, the administrative units in the departments have the power and administrative obligation to fight and prevent both corrupt practices and to act preventively, which is more important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u152	A hole, Prime Minister? You won't use it. Next is a question by MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ayhan Etem about the overall government's personnel policy in the sector. The question will be developed by Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Vice Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Prime Minister, from the very election of the current government there have been alarming tendencies in the sector of security, by making appointments in cases of gross violation of the legislation in force, incompatibility and conflict of interest, as well as by having close political dependences and interests of a particular political force, which cannot determine themselves whether they are in power or in opposition, or are defined as opposition to power, or are in power as opposition, especially by one of its representatives. In the Ministry of Interior and in the State Agency of National Security, a friendly circle has been formed around the MP in question, who takes on a close party and friendly criterion, regardless of the needs of the structures and contrary to the legislation. It turns out that a representative of a modest representative of political power and a small member of his parliament has occupied key units in the security sector and, although he has already declared his opposition character, continues to fire and appoint his comrades in nocturnal places. For example, the rapid growth of Oleg Petkov from the DANS Ministry to the Vice-President of the Office is due entirely to the protections of the former Chairman of the Internal Security Commission Mr. Atanas Atanasov. Among the members of the State Agency there is serious indignation and ambiguity as to why the wife of Vice-President Petkov, Ekaterina Petkova, was appointed to the Directorate for Counteraction of Corruption in violation of art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the DANS Act, because of the fact that spouses appear in a hierarchical service relationship. All appointments at the DANS pass on the marital line instead of the order laid down in the Law. On this line were also appointed Orlin Yakimov Director of Technical Operations at the SANS, which the directorate implements the SRS, and his wife is also an employee of the SANS. Also, the persons Teodosius Kovachev in the Sofia Directorate, Galatea Popova, who is an employee of migration and boasts that she is the niece of General Atanasov. The Deputy Ministers of the Ministry of Interior Philip Gounev and Tzvetko Georgiev should also be added to this personal friendly-husband circle, and the latter is a longtime associate of Mr. Atanasov in parliament and beyond. Of these few examples from the otherwise long family list... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u154	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u155	...it can be concluded that the DANS has become a personal and family structure, where all personnel matters are resolved on a marital line. And in this regard, our question to you, Prime Minister, is: what is the personnel policy of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the sector of Security and in the context of the above examples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u156	For an answer the Prime Minister of the Republic Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u157	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Karadayi, honourable Mr. Hamid, Mr. Etem, the policy of the government in the sector of Security, concerning the appointment of professional staff, is entirely based on the following principles: transparency, publicity, objectivity, competitive beginning, prohibition on discrimination, planning and management of selection and career development. The appointments to the Political Office of the Minister of Interior shall be carried out on the basis of established practice established in art. 108, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 19th para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 23, para. 6 of the Administration Act. Orders to appoint deputy ministers from the Political Office shall be validated and signed by me on a proposal from the respective minister. On the occasion of your appointments to the SANS and the cited specific employees in connection with the appointment of Vice-President, Mr. Oleg Milchev Petkov has submitted a declaration under art. 12, t. 2 in relation to Art. 14 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, p. 5 in which it indicated that it had a private interest in the activities of its related persons within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 of the Additional provision of the Law, for Ekaterina Atanasova Petkova. On the occasion of the request declared by Mr. Petkov to the Commission for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest, a reference was sent with registration number RD-48 of 20 April 2015, to which an answer was received with reference. No RD-2341 of 30 April 2015. The same is notified that as a public office holder there is an obligation to submit a declaration under art. 12 of the Law in the presence of prerequisites for this, including to indicate related persons and relatives, which Mr. Petkov has made. Why is he so informed that according to art. 16 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, a declaration under art. 12, t. 4 whenever powers or duties of service are to be exercised by the person holding a public office in his or his or her own interest and making a stand-alone decision. In accordance with art. 10, para. 2 of the Act Vice-Presidents shall also exercise powers in the volume assigned to them by order of the President of the SANS. In this regard, Mr. Petkov was not empowered by methodical guidance and control of the main structural unit in which his wife served within the meaning of art. 10, para. 2 of the Law. As for the second case quoted by you, Orlin Yakimov and Anita Yakimova are employees in various main structural units of the Agency and are not in hierarchical dependence. Finally, when you appointed Galatea Popova, Teodosius Kovachev did not find any incompatibility with their ministry. Theodosius Kovachev was terminated in 2015 because of an objective inability to fulfil his duties.. a refusal to issue another permission for access to classified information. In conclusion, both in the exercise of their legal powers and in the implementation of their personnel policy in the Ministry of Interior and DANS, the requirements of the regulations, including the requirements for the establishment of incompatibility with public service and conflict of interest, are strictly respected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u158	Two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, you are responsible for the security sector. The specific examples in our question have been mentioned, and in this regard is my supplementary question, not so much for the specific examples, they were only examples. My specific question is: how much longer will you tolerate, Prime Minister, the friendly wifely cadets in the sector? Because this is not just about the authority of the government and the Bulgarian institutions, but especially about the protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u160	The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Karadayi, with the previous term one of the great reproaches towards us was that in the security sector there is police activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u162	You said it. You confessed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u163	Mr. Iankov, if you call again unauthorized, I will sanction you in the worst way possible. [[Radio, comments from GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u164	Now, in two consecutive questions from Mr. Atanasov and from you, I understand that, in fact, either the librarian-saraiian, or the friendly-husband circle, or something like that, are interfering with the management of the services. With all due respect to you, I'd like to say this. This, on the one hand, if it is true in both directions, would be as good for the opposition as possible, that they are so well represented in this sector, both you and the OSCE colleagues. And you are confident that the government and security services are actually working to comply with the laws and to take care of national security. In addition, today came results from market research by collecting and analyzing empty cigarette boxes. I will show you the results because they are very fragile and I think the whole parliament can be proud of it. They are years old and are made by the world's largest companies, but not by statistical method, but they go to cities, from trash cans, they remove the available cigarette boxes. The number of how many there are with Banderol, how many there aren't. Here's the smuggling again, and here's the score. [[shows graphics]] The best of all We've got over 20. In a word, politically, you see how easy it is to talk. Currently prosecutors, DANS, police officers, the IRS, are making huge efforts to collect and show that more money is being collected in the budget. And it is obvious that the results, I regret that there are no statistics here to show you, but it was reported today at this meeting held by these companies in Sofia, how much better we are from many countries in Europe. And that's noticed by everyone. If your energy and efforts are focused on helping not me, not the government, but the services will be only a success for the country. I guarantee you that I do not allow people from the library-sarais, because when such epithets are used, it only humiliates employees, humiliates people who actually work a lot. I'm addressing both parties. There are enough political issues to attack. Be calm "there is no interference, influence or unauthorisedness, any contact in this area. And to my colleague Atanasov, I say it, and to you, let us support them to work. I think when they produce results, they're visible, we can safely afford it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u165	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. For the treatment of Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, to some extent I would agree with the answer I received here in this Chamber, but, Prime Minister, I cannot agree when it comes to the country's national security. [[Radio and lines in the hall.]] Regardless of what terminology is used, who is trying to make, in this case we have only given a few examples in order to see how and what people use the tools of suggestion to promote their personal interests in certain areas. Indeed, Mr. Prime Minister, the security sector is important. Kadrova policy in the sector "Secure" is very important and possibly my next question, I would like to state it right now, most likely it will be for the presence, representation, relative share of minorities in the sector at the different levels of governance and presence in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u167	Mr. Borisov, thank you for participating in this parliamentary control. We are moving on to the answers to the questions asked to Mr. Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." He will answer a question from MP Martin Dimitrov about attracting an investor with experience to acquire shareholder participation and development in the Bulgarian Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u168	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! If you look at the capitalization of the stock exchange in Bulgaria and compare it to that of other Central and Eastern European countries, it is obvious that there is a lag. For 2014 the capitalization, which, by Warren Buffett's idea, measured as the market value of all shares traded to gross domestic product, for Bulgaria is about 12%, for neighbouring countries such as Romania, Macedonia and even Serbia is over 18. I will not compare with Croatia and Poland, where the difference is now five or more times. Why am I saying all this? We're looking for high economic growth. One of the factors for increasing economic growth, which is the basis of income growth, of creating new jobs is the development of the stock market and the stock exchange. I know, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that talks have been held and meetings have been held and a possibility is being sought for a developed European stock exchange to participate in some form, to acquire a share in the Bulgarian stock exchange. My question to you is to introduce us as a Bulgarian Parliament what is the progress and whether it is realistic to expect something more concrete in 2016. If this step is not taken, it is not at this stage a solution of the case, which is that the savings of the Bulgarians do not become investments. Deposits accumulate, deposit base grows, there is no proportional increase in the investment base. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I was soon looking at data on total investments and saw that total investments in Romania are growing faster than those in Bulgaria. The difference is the investment of households. The development of the stock market gives this opportunity as well. My question to you is: what progress do you expect? And in addition to episodeal conversations, can you tell us something specific for 2016, which, from now on, I would support the idea of a large European stock exchange participating in the acquisition of part of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u169	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Dimitrov! That's a good question. I fully agree that the existence of a liquid, reliable, effective capital market governed by the highest international standards and practice is an extremely important factor in the development of the economy and an extremely important factor in growth, part of this economic environment that can stimulate growth. We have absolutely no differences in our views here. Simply put, the state confirms its position to attract a strategic investor in order to integrate the market into the international European markets as an extremely important step for development of the Bulgarian capital market. The fact is that this will lead to an increase in the liquidity and efficiency of the entire capital market, most importantly, new access to funding. We agree with you that this model for providing funding for new business enterprises is used extremely poorly and the data you quoted if you look at the turnovers it has on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, they are extremely low. All banking funding and funding from EU funds are not the whole spectrum. We all know that in a well-developed market, market listing is one of the main tools for at least a number of categories of companies. It should be borne in mind that the Bulgarian Stock Exchange is actually in a privatisation procedure, which is taking place, reminding, by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, as part of the implementation of the protocol-approved decision of the Council of Ministers since 2011. The Concept of Integration of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the Central Depository in the European and World Financial Markets. And here, in favour of the specific "privatization sale of state participation in the capital of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange," is declared a priority in the activities of the Agency in 2016 and I sincerely hope that this will happen. Beyond the procedure, the fact is that numerous conversations have been made. And here's an important clarification. When we talk about possible privatisation, why not this year, God forbid, on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the main and last benefit should be the income from such a deal. That's not what's important to us. It is important to us if a first-class person appears, because we need another partner we do not have, a first-class player who will lead not only to high standards and principles, the whole ecosystem of linked exchanges in Europe, to lead to a new reputation. I would think in a slightly broader perspective if a first-class player appeared, I think there is a potential not only for the capitalization of the Bulgarian capital market, we should think more ambitiously, why not think for example at the level of the Balkans? In this sense, a critical factor in the happening of this deal is the interest of the major first-class players in Europe, which we are doing everything we can to provoke.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Line, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u172	Dear Mr. Donchev, first of all I am glad that we are of the same opinion on this subject, but keep in mind that the capacity of the Privatization Agency is not sufficient for the realization of such a deal. If you do not engage directly and do not participate in the negotiation process, imagine their experience in deals so far, which, by the way, is not bad, but excludes transactions of this kind and nature. That is, if we wait only for them to do this work, more likely the negotiations will continue, for which five years has already been a long period of time. Imagine the question that many economists ask ourselves and it is: without the development of the stock exchange and the capital market, can there ever be higher growth of the Bulgarian economy? If companies continue to rely only on bank financing, can we achieve higher results in this model of declining foreign investments after the 2008 financial crisis? After 2008, Poland and Romania, you know, have taken concrete measures to develop the stock market But I think that the first thing we need is a first-class international player to come to the Stock Exchange, to become the owner and to create the necessary trust that someone who knows how to do business, knows how to attract companies, knows how to attract interest and trust that business is transparent, recorded and that there will be no abuse that is at a global level. I would recommend that this be put as a joint exceptional priority because it has been too long. I know that it is not just up to you or the Privatization Agency, or, if you want, the Bulgarian Parliament, but depends on the motivation of the so-called first-class players. I would very much like to have progress and clarity by the end of this year. I remember when Simeon Dyankov first asked us to change the legislation to resolve this process. We almost unanimously did it. Seeing growth, which is not enough and which as a trend will be difficult to increase, I would very much like progress to be made in 2016 and it will not come from the Privatization Agency. I ask you this question to understand that expectations are also for you. I hope that next time we discuss this topic there will be good news, namely that a large, first-class, world or European player who has managed such a stock exchange wants to come to Bulgaria, to help develop, to make this business first-class, to attract new companies. We need an internal growth engine. So far, we have relied only on the external drivers of growth of investments, on the flow of capital from the parent companies to the Bulgarian banks. We need an internal growth engine, Mr. Donchev. So accept this well-meaning question to you as asking that this work be done, and if you need help, just say so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u173	Out of respect for you, I've left you one minute and forty seconds. Thank you. Right on the back, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u174	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I begin with your final finding. I agree that exports and foreign direct investments cannot be the only growth engine. Here as a very solid basis of growth, for example, we can comment on internal demand. In this sense, the data from the few months of this year has been completely encouraging. But let's get back to the point. Since it is about the procedure, it could also be a competitive procedure, it is not right for a representative of the political leadership to intervene directly in it. Furthermore, not only do I realise my responsibility that sometimes this process is a matter of political signals, but I would like to assure you that I have personally traveled and talked to the management of some of the largest exchanges in Europe in an attempt to draw their attention. Unfortunately, times in Europe are very embarrassing, and I would not say that at the moment we can boast of some mature interest, but efforts in this direction will not stop. And one more important detail. This is not the only capital market development measure, there are others. You mentioned listing a part of state-owned companies. You know well that state-owned companies that remain in Bulgaria are in extremely sensitive sectors. This is by no means an easy conversation. Let me tell you, for example, that we are discussing with some colleagues, including MPs, including the finance minister, and other measures. For example, why not try to stimulate, including through the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" and "Assistance," the help of companies that want to go on the market and give direct support in this direction? This is, more or less, an exotic step, but we should not be afraid of innovation, including management innovation. I want to assure you that in the coming months you will see real steps in this direction, which I hope will result. With several concrete steps, as part of a comprehensive strategy, I am convinced that we can see a more mature capital market in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u175	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. With this question, your participation in parliamentary control is being exhausted. You have fulfilled your constitutional obligations. Have a good day! We are moving on to answers to current questions from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science Ms. Meglena Kuneva. The first question she will answer is from the National Representative Ayhan Etem Here you go, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, all of us together, and you, have witnessed another dam transfusion and made it a potential threat to the lives of citizens in the country. After the heavy rains fell, Rogozen Reservoir in the municipality of Hajredin overflowed as a result of a ruined flood and created a precipice for disaster, which is why it was necessary to evacuate the inhabitants of several settlements at the foot of the dam. The damage to the facility has been known for years, yet the measures necessary for its safe operation have not been taken. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: in what condition was the dam before it overflowed and destroyed the overflow, and why were the necessary repair measures not taken? Are the necessary means of maintenance and safe operation available?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u177	Thank you, Mr. Etem. An actual question for the residents of the entire region of Vratsa. Come in for an answer, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Member of the National Assembly, thank you for your question. I think it is very important, during parliamentary control, that we have a discussion on the theme of the condition of the dams not only because the issue is up to date in the spring due to heavy rainfall. It is mostly important because it is an obligation of institutions to inform people and to provide them with peace of mind for their safety. I'd like to clarify a few things. From 1 January 2016, the control of the state of the dams and facilities was entrusted to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, which falls within my portfolio as Deputy Prime Minister. I repeat, 1 January 2016. The Agency's powers are governed by the Water Act and include giving mandatory regulations to dam owners, setting a deadline for their implementation, drawing up acts establishing administrative violations. We therefore measure the effectiveness of the Agency. It is important to know that under the Water Act, maintenance and repair activities of dams, hydrotechnical and protective facilities are provided by owners. Now on the subject of the dam of Rogozen, Hajredin municipality. The information from the Agency is as follows. As early as 3 February 2016, months before the dam overflowed, experts of the Agency carried out an on-the-spot check, doing their job. In view of the technical situation of the dam and its facilities, the owner of the dam, the municipality of Hajredin, the following prescriptions have been made: controlled draining of the dam, the convening of an expert council for the technical condition of the dam by 18 March In addition, by letter from the Agency to the regional governor of Vratsa District and by order from him to all owners of dams, it is indicated to release the necessary retail volume of dams located within the area. The Agency has not received a written notification from the owner of the dam to comply with the regulations which do not comply with the requirement of the Water Act. That the prescriptions have not been met and that they have been re-checked on-the-spot. There is currently a procedure for issuing an act establishing an administrative infringement under the Law on administrative infringements and penalties of the owner of the dam for failure to comply with the obligations under the Water Act. The amount of sanctions of the owner is from 1000 to 10 000 BGN. With regard to the second part of your question, I would like to inform you that the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision (DAMN) has no obligation by law to finance the owners of the dams. I understand the practical focus of your proposal, but there is no such possibility as to ensure their correct technical condition and safe operation. I also have additional information in general about the activities of the Agency that I will provide to you, and I will count on you to continue through your questions to control. It's very important that everyone has their responsibility. If we simply disperse the recommendations and we do not know that the Law has decided that the responsibility is borne by the owner, and the owner must do what is necessary if we transfer and expect someone else to do the job, this can end in the direct sense of the word catastrophic because we are talking about natural elements. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u179	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go, Mr. Etem, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madame Deputy Prime Minister! I understand that very soon the technical supervision and monitoring of these facilities are in your portfolio. The real problem here is this. Unfortunately, in recent years the state has become a tendency to transfer responsibility and direct obligations to the Bulgarian municipalities without transferring to them the necessary funding necessary for the safe maintenance of these technical facilities. In this regard, I can give you the assurance of the municipal leadership of Hajredin Municipality because this dam has not been theirs over the years, it was subsequently transferred from the State to the municipality the obligation to manage it. The municipality does not have the necessary funds to keep the technical facility safe and is willing to give it to the state. As a better owner, perhaps the state will take better care of this technical facility because both municipal leadership and residents do not want this dam to exist because it poses a direct danger to their lives. I count on your cooperation to resolve this case because, firstly, the dam is in a miserable state, secondly, the municipality of Hajredin, as one of the smallest municipalities, does not have the necessary financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u181	Thank you, Mr. Etem. The right of the doppelganger please, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u182	Mr. Ethem, let me get this straight. I am responsible as a deputy prime minister for the activities of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, not for property matters. I mean, if you want to address, forward, so to speak, the wish of the municipality, please do it to this minister who is in charge of state property. That's not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The second question is from the MP Stanislav Todorov Stanilov regarding the lack of understanding of the corrupt potential of plagiarism. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Corruption is a serious problem of the modern world and its active countermeasure is one of the most secure signs of the maturity of a society. Your ambition, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in this regard is admired and expected that the principle position for non-acceptance of corruption will be accompanied by effective measures in each particular area of public life. This is my expectation for you. I'm surprised you don't apply the anti-corruption approach to higher education and science. What do you mean? Like anywhere else, there is management of public property and public procurement, but there is also a specific problem that generates the most massive corruption attitudes. That's the problem with plagiarism. The previous practice of the Ministry of Education and Science shows that officials do not understand the connection between plagiarism and corruption. The Committee on Education and Science of the National Assembly received letter No 01-01-95 of 27 April 2014. It commented on a specific case, but posed the principled issue of government policy to proven plagiarates. The letter on your behalf advocates that a proven plagiarism, which has been fired from a university, can no problem be assigned to another school. Such a position is incompatible with the principles of the consistent fight against corruption in the field of higher education and science. Once established, plagiarism should result in the deprivation of academic rights. This is the European academic tradition and the European up-to-date approach, which has been commented repeatedly in recent years after scandalous cases in Germany and Hungary. Bulgaria cannot stay away from the European model. In this regard, I ask you to answer me, do you take it as a policy of the Ministry of Education and Science that a proven plagiarist who is fired from a high school of plagiarism can teach at another university? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u185	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Here you are, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, to answer this interesting question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u186	It's really an interesting question, a question of ethics in law. The question is, how far can the law go? Dear Mr. Stanilov, the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the occasion of the signal for plagiarism in the works of Svetla Tsoneva Radeva, which you are quoting, is prepared according to the principle of the law that no one can be punished twice for the same offense. Svetla Radeva was sanctioned at the time of her incrimination in plagiarism according to the order of art. 58, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on Higher Education. Her work contract with the University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy was terminated by order of the Rector of 11 May 2009. There is no text in the current Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria that I can apply, according to which a person who has been shown plagiarism in his scientific work may not hold an academic position in a Higher School or scientific organization. Whether this is a omission of the law or a conscious decision of the legislator, who, here in this Chamber, is making the laws, that is what I leave you to judge. I remind you, Mr. Stanilov, that the Ministry, like any other Bulgarian institution and as any Bulgarian citizen, is bound by the Law. In our opinion, which you are quoting, we have explained very clearly, referring only to the current Bulgarian legislation, why, in this case, the Ministry of Education and Science cannot exercise control over this appointment, i.e. Svetla Radeva as a professor at the College of Telecommunications and Posts. What I can do is enforce the Law. The rest would be voluntarism. I want to tell you that my acts are subject to a sanction from the Supreme Administrative Court and such an act may fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u187	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u188	That's a very good answer, Madam Secretary. Thank you for that answer. You're absolutely right. Indeed, there is no clause to combat plagiarism in the existing Academia Act proposed and adopted in the Forty-first National Assembly with big disputes and big discussions. This was the omission of the legislator, the initiator, the one who had the legislative initiative, respectively Minister Sergey Ignatov, and the National Assembly, despite the protests of part of the opposition, adopted this Law. Three draft laws for the development of the academic staff, one of which belongs to the Ministry of Education and Science, one is mine, and one belongs to colleagues from the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO). In these three laws, there are only two clauses against plagiarism in the sense of European law that a scientist or a lecturer who is caught in plagiarism loses his academic rights, and in this sense was my question. When the Ministry of Education and Science Bill was working, you weren't a minister. You are not responsible for this Project. The problem is that now, now for a third week, it will become a month, this Law does not move in the Commission, and it is for the reason of the failure of the Ministry of Education and Science. At the attempt to assemble a working group with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, you sent Deputy Minister. Dimov, along with a lawyer who seems to be called Yosifov. They said they did not want to work to synchronise the three laws, but would hold exclusively to the Law of the Ministry of Education and Science, in which there is no such clause. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. Are you willing, Madam Minister, to accept that such clauses must also exist that plagiarism in science and higher education should be punished according to the European system, according to European principles? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u189	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Here you go, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u190	Professor Stanilov, I want to tell you that you are starting a much bigger and wider conversation than just a conversation about education. Where do we stop? She cannot take up her position in the relevant higher education institution where she has worked, as with the person you mean, has happened and she has been removed from office, or in practice we deprive her of the right to perform her profession at all. That's very, very serious steps. We have other occasions on which we can ask ourselves the same question. Can a teacher be deprived of the right to exercise his profession under certain circumstances, is there any other profession connected? It may even come to the issue of lustration, because, you know, these issues have also been discussed in this Parliament. We can't decide on a piece of this, how can I say, a border issue between law and ethics. I understand the seriousness of what you're talking about. If you are asking for my personal opinion, the fact that the name of the person is mentioned here, from this room, practically with access to an unlimited number of listeners and viewers, is a serious punishment enough. Moreover, I say again that she has terminated a contract when establishing this really serious violation that she has committed. I understand that you actually want me to commit myself publicly to you that I will change the Law tabled by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u191	No, I don't. I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u192	No, I will not do it, Mr. Stanilov, because I think we should work in some conditions of stability and continuity, but I am ready, naturally, to discuss with you every such element as we do now, and you in Parliament, on the basis of competition between you, between the different opinions, the different parliamentary groups, to give that mind to the Law and those provisions that people expect of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Two questions from the MP from BSP left Bulgaria Mihail Raykov Mikov will answer Mrs. Kuneva. The first question is about providing scholarships to medical students. Here you are, dear Mr. Mikov, to develop the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, this problem became public and created public tension about two weeks ago. Protests have been declared by medical students in connection with dropping out of the opportunity to receive scholarships provided so far by European funds. How will the scholarships of these students be provided because there has been a division of the specialties of those who are priority and those who are not priority? What do you think the government thinks about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u195	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, since yesterday I can be very specific in my reply to you because yesterday was the last meeting with representatives of the student unions, together with the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev and we came to the following mutual consents. Scholarships to students and PhD students are actually granted in the performance of PMS No 90, which is exactly the decree for scholarships. They are financed by the state budget. All Bulgarian students who meet the requirements of this Order, regardless of whether they are trained professionally, declared as priority or not, including medical students, are entitled to apply for scholarships financed by the state budget. Not only is there no cause for concern here, but after five meetings we made with the students, I also missed the Rectors' Council, who participated in these talks, we already have an agreement. A 20% increase in the budgets of the higher schools for student scholarships was achieved as early as the beginning of the academic year 2016, with the funds of nearly 1 million. BGN will be provided by reserves of the Ministry of Education. Of course, in the spirit of academic autonomy, higher schools retain the right to decide how to distribute these funds.... whether a larger number of students should receive scholarships of a lower size, whether scholarships should be given to fewer students, but in a higher size, or to direct them to professional directions, outside the list of so-called "priorities." This also concerns law schools. That's not all. As of the second semester of the academic year 2016, the rates of scholarships are increased: from 50 to 120 BGN, as it is now, becomes 70 "150," respectively the funds will be planned for the entire 2017 budget year. The prize money is also increasing. Now it's up to 200 BGN, and from the second semester it's up to 300. In the coming years, opportunities will also be sought for additional increases in scholarships financed by the state budget. We are committed to continuing to hold meetings in the same format that, as we can see, gives good results. We have been working on a text with the students on Order No 90 and I can say that there are many good lawyers and very reasonable people growing up. I do not think that we can give a clearer signal from the Ministry of Education that we hear and take into account the views of all participants in the process and aim to protect the interests of all students to the maximum extent while conducting a state policy in the field of higher education, which is in line with the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education, adopted unanimously by the current National Assembly. The so-called "European scholarships" are not really in their own sense scholarships. Under the new Operational Programme they aim to bring up our economy, which has a shortage of certain specialties, and if we start negotiating now the Operational Programme, long before I become a minister, which is a fact, that means slowing down by at least 6 I think we will establish the following as a policy: the care for Bulgarian students is the care of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Your line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it is good to assume that both medicine and law are priorities because we know what the state and ageing in hospitals are, and the mechanisms for stopping labour migration are quite different. Finding a solution is good. The fact that the public tension in this matter was taken down, because obviously there was such tension, it was no accident that five meetings you had, if there were no tension, there would be no meetings, we would see what a real result it would lead to. But keep in mind that much of the higher education institutions are financially difficult. Do not make it so that the commitment that is conditional can not be fulfilled within the budgets of the relevant higher education institutions, because there will still be tensions. I appeal to you specifically to keep an eye on this matter so that it doesn't come to this kind of tension again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Right on the back of Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u200	Mr. Mikov, it's not exactly in the own sense of the word as part of an argument with you. Not at all. I would like to tell you that there are 65% more willing to follow medicine than previous years. In other words, there is no shortage as a market for education that we need to stimulate. What we are trying to do through the so-called 'European scholarships', which are not scholarships in the very sense of the word, they are aid to our economy, is where the market of education and the labour market is totally different. The labor market needs engineers, but the education market is not good for these specialties. They don't want to apply to the kids. Perhaps if we say that in the coming years there will be such scholarships, this will give arguments to hesitant students, for example between economics and engineering, to take this step. As far as law is concerned, things are the same. There's an educational market for right. By the way, the students were extremely mature. One of the graduates of the Law Faculty of Sofia University said: "I am ready for these people who study engineering to receive priority funds because the economy needs them. I stress that these conversations were extremely mature. There will be no emptiness in the budget. We'll provide $1 million. lv. from the Ministry's reserves. I trust that higher schools will spend this money in the best and wisest way, given what is most important for the university concerned and how exactly to allocate the scholarships to less people or otherwise. I want to share with you my belief, Mr. Mikov, that for me excellent students and students with excellence should be stimulated. I hope that these are tomorrow the people who will take responsibility for being leaders each in their area. I think that's what this country's gonna get out of.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Mihail Mikov's second question is about closing schools. Here you are, dear Mr. Mikov, to develop your second question in today's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Kuneva, Mrs. Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The adoption of the new Law brings another blow to Bulgarian education. It's obvious there's going to be a school closure next year. It is obvious that the government will try to transfer this responsibility to the municipalities. This is obvious because of the changes that are being pushed through this degree of education from 8th to 7th grade. And that is provided that there is such a high dropout rate, provided that there is a very low birth rate. For the record, today I made a reference to the birth register on the Ministry of Health's website, 6% less newborn children this year than last year during the same period. And when in a previous government, which you and I were in, and when we passed a principle, the money follows the student, we obviously did not realize what severe and disastrous consequences for the Bulgarian education system will have all of this. Do you have any idea at the Ministry, do you analyze the processes? Because if, in 2021, with the introduction of the 7th grade as compulsory, children have entered schools, then now with the downgrading of this 7th grade many of those who drop out will take the opportunity to drop out of school. The money won't follow the students, the municipalities will shut down the schools. Parents will follow the students and the money in the big cities. This will further destroy the educational system of Bulgaria. Do you have any idea what's going to happen?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Your answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, for the reason that we have graduated from the same faculty, I want to tell you that when it comes to laws, they are not passed, but voted. As you mentioned when the rule was introduced, the money follows the student and this Law we are now talking about. You voted him out here in this room. Whatever you think of the Law, it is what it is, and it must be observed. I'll give you the facts, and you've already given the right. Here are the facts. The procedure for changes to the school network is regulated in the Rules of Application of the still-in force Law on People's Education. In 2015 8 schools were closed, of which 5 municipal, 3 state and one service unit. Currently for the academic year 2016/2017 has been issued an order of 26 April 2016 to close a school in Shumen District, Vrbitsa Municipality, elementary school.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The order was published on 13 May, the 14-day appeal period expired and the order came into effect. He hasn't been appealed. The deadline for submission of proposals to the Ministry of Education for optimization of the school network in the country expires on 31 May. The deadline is legal. I can't change it. A total of 127 proposals for closure, transformation and change of funding and status of state and municipal schools in the country have been put in place. The procedure is as follows. An expert committee is hereby appointed to assess the proposals within two months and, on the basis of the criteria in the Rules of Application of the People's Education Act, to prepare an expert opinion with a proposal to the Minister of Education and Science for the detection, transformation, closure or change of status. Since the regulatory deadline for submitting proposals has already expired several days ago, at this stage the Ministry cannot commit to forecasts. We will wait for expert opinions and keep you informed on this matter. You are welcome at any time so that I can inform you in a timely manner of this information. You know the texts of the Law. However, this is what the logic of the law is related to with ensuring equal access and quality educational and educational process for all students in the country, active partnership between all involved in the conduct of educational policy state institutions, teachers, parents, employers, trade unions, NGOs, openness and flexibility of the educational system towards the development of the economy and the labour market in the European Union. We can't every time we have a hard time trying to change course. This course, which has been voted for optimizing the school network, must be done in the best possible way. And I invite you to do this in dialogue when we consider the proposals made by 31 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Right to the line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Mrs. Kuneva, I understand there are 127 proposals. And how many of them will you give permission for, will be seen later. That is, the process of destroying Bulgarian education, the Bulgarian school, the Bulgarian education is moving at a rapid pace. I thank you for introducing me to the texts of the Law and to these perfidious, but no one believes in them words such as partnership, dialogue, explanations, meetings, seminars, euro works and so on. Do you understand that we are killing the future of the nation? And to answer me that you have no idea that the experts will decide that I will come in a dialogue to decide which school to close down is just not serious. I don't want to be involved in this execution. In 1921 after the introduction of these changes have increased by more than 1100 Bulgarian schools, so tells me Mrs. Boyadjieva. And now the pace at which we destroy the infrastructure of Bulgarian education and ruin the possibility of access, especially with this poor people, especially at small schools, and will flock to the big cities where the money will follow the students, the parents from the small settlements will follow the students because their children do not have the opportunity and access to education that is killing the future of the nation. I ask you to take this matter to the Council of Ministers. There is no price, no money, no budget price that will cost the murder of the Bulgarian nation and the education of Bulgarian children! I know that in this way they will be created temporarily, there will be a stream to the big cities, but in general the Bulgarian people will become more illiterate. Otherwise, the words you read to me don't matter to people when their children don't have access to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Come on in, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u208	Mr. Mikov, I want to protect you, as well as protect our listeners, our viewers, the MPs from delusion, so I will answer you. I'll answer you with a few examples. It seems very strong and pathetic what you say, but it is simply not true. I'm going to give you a few examples of what a proposal means that has arrived at the Ministry. Of course, an expert group will decide to see each proposal whether it corresponds to the truth and whether it is written properly. I am a principled opponent of liking certain laws when we are in power and not liking them when we are in opposition. I stress that this is a Law that you know well. For example, a healing school is being closed in the town of Dr. Nikola Dimitrov. Varna, with effect from 15 September 2015. According to a reasoned proposal of the mayor of the municipality, the report found the lack of an existenz minimum and violation of the regulatory requirements guaranteeing the rights and interests of the students. The Social Assistance Directorate, with a report, informed that the families of some of those children with whom protection measures have been taken, can raise their children at home. The other part of the children are accommodated in the House for Children deprived of parental care Where do you see the children's interests and the murder of Bulgarian education here? Kardzhali District, Chernoochene municipality: closure of school "Yordan Yovkov" in the village of Zhitnitsa. According to the mayor's reasoned proposal, I repeat, the mayor of the municipality and the opinion of RIO Kardzhali, there are no students in the school and no educational and educational process is being conducted. All students have applied to be accepted and enrolled at the School of Education............................................................................................................................................................. The closing of the School of Education in the village of Zhitnitsa is due to the lack of students for the school year 2015 - 2016. Pleven district, Pordim municipality According to a reasoned proposal of the mayor of the municipality and an opinion of the RIO at the school 18 students are trained in classes in two classes. Is that a good thing? At the time of the inspection the students are 17 as follows and so on. Now, this represents a proposal for closure. Please, let's not make a problem where... You see, we solve the problem. A case on a case will be dealt with all these things. I assure you, I will take my business very seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u209	Thank you for these assurances, Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the National Representative Yavor Haytov on held matriculation exams. Here you are, dear Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! Despite the measures that the Ministry of Education and Science assured us that he was taking for the state's final exams for graduating high school, the result, to be honest, was not good. This is because the answers from the Bulgarian language and literature test expired became public before the exam itself was completed on May 18th, Wednesday. Moreover, journalists from the Bulgarian National Television managed to buy the sum of 40 BGN, with the promise to pay another 40 BGN. for the test results. It is clear that the Ministry was not able to do quite well in terms of conducting the matriculation exams and perhaps with their actions the BNT journalists also assessed the management of the Ministry, which is not one of the best. In this regard, my question is: when will the state in the face of the Ministry and the Minister of Education be able to ensure security in the conduct of the state's maturity exams? Please answer us: who allowed this leak and who really failed and who was responsible for this fact that the results became known long before completing the mature exam itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, to answer the interesting question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, the question would be serious if the journalists took a mature exam, but they did not appear. They are not inside the room, are not in the places where the exams are being conducted and therefore the information they have received, if it is at all true, of course, cannot lead to an unfair result of the exam. What's done? I cannot agree that the Ministry has not taken all the necessary measures, on the contrary we have done so. The measures taken this year go beyond what has been done so far and the result is there. I'm afraid it will also reflect on the assessments that are finally being made because I can't say that cheating at all wasn't such a claim at all would be too arrogant. However, it was so done that all steps towards the fortress where the exam took place were cut off. That's what I can do, Mr. Haytov. I am not able, as perhaps no one in the modern world will give you a hundred percent guarantee against the hackers, and I am not sure that the result that the journalists have bought is the real result. The question is.. and it was our conscious choice.. not for us to try within two or three months since I am a minister along with my team at the Ministry of Education and Science to make super protection systems expensive, tried and so on, but to cut off all possible inputs to enter the school from the external environment. That's why the cameras were, and they would stay on for security at the school, so it was the Quaestors, so it was the ban for the Quaestors to sit down at all times they had to keep an eye on the students, so it was the participation of the parents as observers of the process. I mean, all the opportunities to make a place out of the school, I'd say a fort, so it wouldn't come in from the outside, were taken. From 8:01 a.m. on, maybe 10,000 people already have the tests. The maintenance of the test options until the moment of withdrawal was not breached. That is, unlike other years, when the previous day appeared the answers to the test or what topic will be given for Bulgarian, this year it did not happen. As soon as one of the options is drawn, it is sent to more than 600 schools, Mr. Haytov, where it is being made available to my colleagues have written, up to 15,000 people, so by 5 more than I suspected, directors, Quaestors, staff, as well as students in classrooms, the questions are no longer secret. We even intend to publish them at the moment, as other texts are being done, to have in advance a context of what are the texts that will be decided. The point is, there's no cheating inside the classroom. Our goal is if, eventually, after it has fallen into the hands of tens of thousands of people in the country, the test to be resolved from the outside is true or not, it is a separate question that the answers cannot be returned to the classrooms. As for the correct answers, the official correct answers from the Ministry, the so-called key to the test, which did not leak from the Ministry. Every check I've been offered to do, I'm doing it, and I'm gonna keep doing it. There is currently a check in Varna because no one has the right to announce what the correct answers to the test are until 3:00. If there really is one and, as they say, a teacher has done this thing, I will act with all the strictness of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u213	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Because of the public interest in this question, I left you a minute and five more seconds to answer. Here you go, Mr. Haytov. Your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madame Deputy Prime Minister, Madame Minister, honourable Members! First of all, this answer, this explanation, you owed it and you owe it to the adults, their parents and the entire Bulgarian public, because one mature exam passed, but the next one, as they say, is approaching and preparation for it should begin as soon as the previous exam is completed. You have mentioned several times the word "fortress" that you are turning schools into "fortress." Let them be a fortress of Bulgarianity, of the Bulgarian spirit, of Bulgarian education. I find it somewhat incomprehensible what and why it requires purely technologically and physically guarded Bulgarian educational centers to be transformed into fortresses. From the highest tribune in the Republic, I could say one thing and it is to the adults present and future. It is better, young friends, to read and prepare than to think by what technical means to deceive the system! This will be better for you tomorrow! It is also good for the Ministry to do its job and indeed not allow such leaks of information. What you have mentioned is that you are doing checks in several places - you mentioned Varna as well, because no system is acting flawlessly, and probably the control regarding the conduct of the exams also has its faults. I was uncomfortable, to tell you frankly, when the questions were opened, there were representatives of the economic police and whatnot, I saw this in the media. After all, education should be self-confidence, mood and spirit that we are doing something useful for the future Bulgarian generation, for our children and for ourselves, and not that we are dealing with some God-protective criminal activity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Here you go, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u216	Mr. Haytov, I take the floor to say that what you have completed is my intention, absolutely in accordance with the policy of the Ministry. I just want the kids to play fair and know that when you study fair, you end up winning. The exams were not difficult, the tests were not difficult and could safely prepare themselves without doing these, as in some cases folklore says, so complex attempts to get the answers from outside. As for the word "fortress" there is a book that is called "Digital Fortress" or "Digital Fortress" that is to say, not to give a digital opportunity to it by means of special devices, or by any other way, to get information inside the school, so that this affected the image that I tried to create before you. Yeah, I want to make sure the tests are clear what they're gonna be, draw an option. The answers are known, they just need to learn, and they don't need to be copied. We are already working on this so that we can either do it in modules so that there is no exit from the room, or we can do it in any other way that we know there is in the world with pre-test tests. You just need to know the answers and not be afraid of what you're gonna get. I think this is a very strong signal that we want to support those who play fair. That's why everything was done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The last question to Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva is a question from the National Representative Stanislav Todorov Stanilov concerning the delay of the new Staff Regulations of the Fund. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The problems at the Research Fund are among the most discussed topics related to the Ministry of Education and Science in recent years and even provoked the resignation of a minister. The fund was the subject of a number of scandals that caused serious damage to the idea of programming funding the Bulgarian science. Several competitions sessions were failed, which created serious difficulties in higher schools and scientific organizations, because rhythmism and sustainability are the most important condition for the success of any research. The National Assembly attempted to solve the most acute problems in the Fund with the amendments to the Research Promotion Act published on 26 February 2016. The Ministry received a one-month period after the entry into force of the Law, in which to update the Rules of the Fund. The deadline was not respected and the draft updated Rules were published with a delay for public consultation and the opinions of the academic community had to be tabled by 19 April. More than a month later, the Rules were not published in the Official Journal. Here I interrupt my written word to note that these Rules have now been published. My question to the Minister was: what are you going to do to urgently publish the Fund's Rules of Procedure and launch all subsequent procedures for conducting the Fund's scientific competitions? I modify it in the following way: what will you take to launch all subsequent procedures for conducting scientific competitions in the Fund, because publication itself does not finally solve things, after it is a long procedure? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u219	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u220	Honourable Professor. Stanilov, I don't mind that you modified your question. I'm really glad to tell you that the Rules have already been published. This is the Official Gazette of 31 May. 41, so today we have the rules in force. Thank you for your concern and for persistently monitoring the compliance with the Ministry's deadlines. You have every right. It is amended in parallel with a discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Research, as you said, and in line with the amendments adopted in it. In order to provide a framework to ensure the conduct of transparent, objective, fair and competitive competitions by the scientific community after the adoption of the Law, it was made available for a re-public discussion. We have reflected comments and suggestions from the scientific community. We have indeed made a serious effort to be well - made. This was also the reason for the deadlines set in the CYD to be slower than it should have been, but it is a fact. Adopting the Annual Programme is the next thing we need to do for 2016. It is also a fact and I am happy to share it with you, Professor. Stanilov. Following the new Rules of Procedure, the validation of the Annual Operational Programme is a second step towards restoring the Fund's normal work and trust in it by holding competitions with the help of transparent, open, quality-based competition. The programme is prepared in the frames of the established budget of the Fund for 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 193,000. lv. It provides funds for expected payments at the second stage of projects in competitions for fundamental research from 2014, under bilateral cooperation contracts, CERN, as well as new competitions. The distribution of these funds is based on a balance between the possibility of financing more projects and stimulating the participation of more scientists in them. Announcing new competitions is the second step. The new competitions will be announced consecutively by mid-July. They've been assigned 6 million. 447 thousand. lv. and has already developed application guidelines. They will be agreed with the Ministry of Finance in the next two weeks. Thirdly, the renewal of all internal rules and the management bodies of the Fund, and the preparation of procedures has already started. I believe that the way forward, though long and difficult, will give a new impetus to research. There's something else I want to tell you. We made the first presentation of the Project. It is subject to discussion of the Research Strategy and I invite you most warmly, Professor. Stanilov, on the 13th to attend a round table on the Strategy for Research. So within a week, the Ministry presented the Research Strategy, the Rules of the Research Fund were published, and in the meantime, we took the exams and issued two more standards under the Preschool and School Education Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Professor Stanilov for a line, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u222	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, your response sounded very optimistic, but I will only notice this in this regard. The delay of two months of the Ordinance proved fatal for the 2016 session for the simple reason that the time limits for procedures, if fulfilled in full, would violate the State Budget Act, and according to him the funds for the Fund If your experts and experts at the Ministry sit down and calculate the time limits of the procedures, time limits for licenses and so on, you will see that the session for this year cannot fit into these frameworks. This is the result of the delay, however good the Regulation is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u223	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity for a duvet. You won't be using it. That was the last question for you. Thanks for being a part of this. We move on to questions that are asked to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. First, he will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about exploration and extraction of oil and gas in the fields of the company "Han Asparuh", "Teres" and "Silistar". Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's statement regarding exploration and extraction of oil and gas in the fields................................................................................................................................................................. Dear Minister, at a forum of the Political Party GERB on 26 March 2016, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said that on 19 April 2016 drilling for its own oil and gas from fields in the Black Sea began by describing the studies of the Black Sea bottom in the fields "Han Asparuh", "Teres" and "Silistar" as a priority. In view of the extreme importance of these studies, please make public the contract with the company that will carry out the drilling to ensure transparency and public awareness of the specific parameters and conditions under which our offshore drilling coast is provided. Please also answer the following questions: which companies have already started drilling for each of the fields "Han Asparuh", "Teres" and "Silistar"? I clarify that my question is from March 30, 2016, that is, before the beginning of April 19 we should already have started these studies. Secondly, what is the concession fee provided for under the contract for each of these fields? Third, at what price will Bulgaria buy the oil and gas derived from these fields? Are mining contracts concluded besides oil and gas exploration contracts for the three fields? What is the duration of these contracts and what clauses are laid down to protect potential environmental risks in oil and gas drilling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u225	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam Secretary, come in. This will be your first response of the six you will have to give at today's sitting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kadiev! The government attaches key importance to the development of local production of energy resources, and it was not a coincidence that one of the first decisions of this cabinet was precisely related to launching the deep-sea search and survey procedure with regard to the blocks of Silistar. As you know, by Decision of 2012 the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria gave permission to choose the owner for search and survey in block 1-21. Thanks to this important step today, Bulgaria can boast that the study in the block of Han Asparuh has already started. The research drilling is carried out in a consortium of proven energy companies. Over the next four to five months, two geological structures will be investigated. Upon completion of the first drilling activities, an analysis of the results will be carried out and the prospects of the block will be assessed and the second exploration drilling will be launched next year. Given the preliminary geological studies and the fact that 84 billion were already found in one bloc in neighbouring Romania. Cube. m. gas, we hope that in the block asparuh Han will be successful. As you know, the Council of Ministers authorised the selection of the owner for search and survey of the company, and the search and survey contract with this company was concluded on 23 February 2016 by Decision No 814 of 16 October 2015. This company, by the way, is one of the world's leading industry in deep water exploration and extraction and is one of the largest international oil and gas companies in the world. The authorisation shall be for a period of five years under art. 31, para. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, such as the provision of a comprehensive work project for search and research to come. Decision of the Council of Ministers No 807 of 4 December 2014 opened proceedings for the issue of an authorisation for the search and investigation of oil and natural gas in block 1-22. The decision was published in the Official Journal. 103 of 2014 and in the European Union's Official Journal. In that Decision of the Council of Ministers is the deadline for submission of applications by candidates for participation in the contest. No such applications have been received within that period. In this regard, a decision to terminate the competition procedure is to be adopted and, subsequently, the possibility of restarting the competition procedure. With regard to your issue of concession fees, it should be noted that there are no concessions for extraction for the areas concerned and for the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Black Sea. The amount of concession fees shall be determined at the time of conclusion of concession contracts under the respective concession remuneration methodology. Regarding the question at which price Bulgaria will buy the oil and gas derived from these fields, it should be noted that the realization of the obtained production is the right of the owner. The concession does not set the price and therefore does not have the obligation to buy the quantities received. As regards whether protection clauses are provided for against potential environmental risks, it should be borne in mind that according to art. 6, para. 2, p. 26 of the contract, the holder of the permit for the search and exploration of oil and natural gas in unit 1-21 is obliged to conduct a procedure under Chapter Six of the Environmental Protection Act for each of the two planned drillings, namely an environmental assessment and environmental impact assessment. The Ministry of Energy has been introduced and a project for drilling operations and for drilling under the Ministry of Energy is agreed. This project is complemented by a working project for the liquidation and conservation of geological research sites and for the reclamation of the affected lands for the first drilling in unit 1-21. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is, of course, made in accordance with the Ordinance on the requirements for the scope and content of work projects for the search, exploration, extraction and primary processing of underground wealth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Petkova, you answered all the questions except one, and this was the question whether mining contracts were concluded other than oil and gas exploration contracts? What I understand from your answer is that there are no concession fees as there are no concessions signed. You have companies that do drilling in two of the fields. A new procedure is to be announced in the third. The ownership of any future oil and gas is the ownership of the company that is developing it. Bulgaria has no obligations to buy this oil and gas. The only thing I didn't understand is those companies that are currently leading the drilling, if they find oil and gas, does that automatically mean that you have already concluded mining contracts with them, or is there a future procedure for finding next companies and corresponding concessionation of these fields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u229	Thank you. You have two minutes to complete your answer. Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u230	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kadiev! I'll take the liberty of disagreeing with you. I have answered this question and it is expressed in the following. At present, the contracts that have been concluded are search and survey contracts. Only after the results of this search and study are available will it begin to conclude a concession contract. This concessionaire will therefore pay a concession fee which will be determined in accordance with the methodology for determining concession fees and which depends, in general, on two main factors. First of all, this is the extraction as a whole, second of all the revenues related to those activities to be carried out under the concession. In this case, the State has the right to choose which of these methods can determine the amount of the concession fee. With regard to the commitments for the purchase of the yield, yes, that is so. The Bulgarian State does not have such commitments. But this will undoubtedly enable Bulgaria to have a real diversification of the sources of natural gas or oil, as you know that a large part of the price of these products are actually costs related to transport, transport charges. If we realize this, this local yield, this means that approximately 30 percent of the price paid at the present time will be saved as it represents precisely these fees and transport costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Petkova is from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev concerning permission No 444 of 3 February 2016 by the Minister of Energy for research of construction materials, underground riches under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on underground wealth in the area of the Koratata, located in the land of the village of Lozen, Sofia Municipality, Sofia district. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop the matter to Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is in my capacity as MP since 23. Multi-mandated electoral area in Sofia, in whose region is the village of Lozen. That's where the people, Madam Minister, went to protest. It was reflected quite a bit by the mass media about a decision and an order to initiate and authorise the exploration of the possibility of extraction of inert materials, literally at the border of the locality. What puzzled me, getting acquainted with the whole course of the file and all the documentation, is that none of the necessary requirements and provisions of the Underground Treasures Act have been met. It is explicitly stated that this type of investment intention must be agreed with the respective locality. Neither the people know, nor the mayor of the town hall, nor the mayor of the region, nor did Mrs. Fandakova turn out to be the mayor of Sofia. This is evident from the letters that were given to me by them to you and is evident from the complaint which has the Sofia Municipality itself to the Supreme Administrative Court, where the order issued by you is contested. I would like to tell you that the territory that is given for research, in addition to being state owned, has many land from the Agricultural Fund for this purpose, there are also many lands owned by private persons. A certain part of this territory falls within the boundaries of the protected territory of If you look at the map and go to the spot, you will see that it is within the limits of the villa zone itself of the locality, literally bordering on the houses of the people. They're pretty worried about it. Therefore, my request is from this high tribune, first of all, to inform and to tell how a file comes to pass through the Council of Ministers and to give it a move without all the steps being completed? What steps you are taking to end this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u233	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, before I give a specific answer to your question, first of all, Mr. President, I would like to apologize if I delay the time that has been set, but since the question is really important and is of very public importance, I would simply ask you to excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u235	We'll be patient, but hurry up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u236	First of all, I would like to point out that the entire legal procedure has been followed. Now, within the answer I'm about to give you, you're going to hear how this whole process went. The production of the permit for exploration of underground wealth, construction materials in the area of the Municipality, Sofia District, was opened on application of the Stone factions. Within the framework of the conciliation procedure under art. 26 of the Law on Underground Treasures have received opinions from the competent ministers under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, responsible for protecting the national security and defence of the country for protected territories, objects and cultural values. The area is also agreed by Sofia Municipality on behalf of Sofia's chief architect and the Road Infrastructure Agency. Visible from the views of the Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality, the area does not fall into urbanised territory with boundaries defined by a detailed spatial plan entered into force. The territory within whose borders there is an establishment plan for the construction of a national site or of a site of social or technical infrastructure of public municipal property, a territory for public use, which is included in the programme or plan for development of the municipality under art. 21, para. 1, t. 12 of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. In accordance with art. 56, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the granting of a concession for extraction shall be refused motivated when there is a danger to the national security and defence of the country, to the earth's bowels and the environment, to the safety and health of workers and to the legally protected territories, objects and cultural values. It should be noted that the existence of those circumstances is established by the competent authorities. As I have already mentioned, within the framework of the conciliation procedure under art. 26 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the competent authorities have agreed to the opening of proceedings to grant permission for an area survey in the Forest. In view of the positive conciliation opinions under art. 26 of the Law on Underground Treasures has moved on to coordination under art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration, namely with all ministries of the structure of the Council of Ministers. The observations and proposals received have been accepted. Only after the complete completion of the legal procedure did the Council of Ministers proceed to issue the permission to study local wealth in the area of the Municipality, Sofia district. With regard to your question about how the applicant's management and financial capacity has been demonstrated, the following should be clarified. In the Order of Art. 51 of the Underground Treasures Act indicates the required documents to be annexed to the application. The order of Art. 51, para. 3 provides that an application in a sealed envelope is subject to a work programme with a brief description of the objectives, the timing of the initiation, type, volume, methods, duration and value of the activities envisaged, as well as measures for the protection of groundwater and the environment, human health and cultural values. In the present case, the applicant has fulfilled these requirements by submitting the required documents, including a work programme involving the design and implementation of the research works. The applicant also declares that it will finance the implementation of the project with its own funds, with the minimum estimated investment amount of 115 thousand. 450 BGN, the value of the environmental event for the duration of the contract is 15 thousand. lv. With regard to your question whether action will be taken to amend the Law on Underground Treasures in the direction of extending the scope of the conciliation procedure, I believe that, in view of the fact that such an activity as is sought and the exploration of underground riches directly concerns the inhabitants of the respective settlement, the Ministry of Energy would support a change in the legislation that would allow for coordination with both the mayors of municipalities and the mayors of settlements of the territories in which the area is located. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, I would just like to point out that we have had several meetings with the residents of Lozen, we keep constant communication with them. A complaint was lodged to the court and the Sofia Municipality and the Initiative Committee respectively. This complaint has been filed by the Ministry, we have assembled it and forwarded it to the Supreme Administrative Court. Until the judgment of the court, any action relating to the continuation of the search and investigation authorisation process has been suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Minister, the question is important and the answer is volumey, and we have quite rightly exceeded the time. You'll be able to get a douche. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u238	Thank you for understanding too, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, I am not satisfied with what you have said from the stand. I wanted to hear very clearly your opinion and your commitment to this case and this procedure. Firstly, I will not enter into whether the procedures have been followed after there has been open proceedings in the Supreme Administrative Court, but I have come to know the objections of both the Sofia Municipality and the Initiative Committee. And there, please note, it is claimed that the procedure under art. 26, which requires this type of coordination, is not respected. You also said in your reply that it was respected, but you quote a letter of co-ordination from the chief architect, not from the mayor of the region, not from the mayor of Sofia Municipality, not from the mayor of the town hall, but from Sofia's chief architect, which I also have. But this is some very clever approach that is being used, I think, not only for this concession procedure, but at all for this type of procedure, in which it is claimed that there is coordination, but however you read this, it does not seem to be in coordination. It says here that this area, according to the General Planning Plan of Sofia and under the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, falls into a territory that is for recreation forests and lands, and is not allowed to do business. It's besides sanitary, and landscape logging. There is no way to develop extraction of inert materials under this type of view, so it seems to me that these are very clever ways of circumventing the procedures and to claim that the provisions of the Law are fulfilled. More importantly, we have a tension there. This is one of the most ecological and clean places in Sofia. I want to tell you that my opinion is that the discovery of this career will have a significant negative impact on the territory and will endanger the health and life of these people, and not to mention that it will lead to the cutting down of many forests and all biodiversity in the territory at all, so I expect your opinion to end this procedure. There is a way to extract inert materials, let this territory in Sofia develop as one of the best places to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u239	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, you have your two minutes to complete your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boychev, I am glad that I was able to dispel your doubts that the procedure has not been followed and that in practice the Council of Ministers has taken an unlawful decision. [[Reply from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev.]] Yeah. That's what I think we were able to distract as a doubt. And in my answer, I had the opportunity to say what my opinion is, both personally and the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry of Energy would support and support such a change in the Law on Underground Treasures. I fully agree with you that it is not logical in areas in direct proximity to settlements, parks, forests and so on to provide such an opportunity. However, I would like it to be clear that, at present, the legislator has decreed this. The Ministry will support such a change in the Law. Again, we understand the people of Lozene very well. We have a good dialogue with them. We're in constant communication. Until the verdict of the court, any action has been suspended. Let the court rule, then we'll move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u241	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva on cases filed by the President is announced in the program. Mrs. Tasheva, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u242	Dear Minister, please respond at what stage are the arbitration cases against Bulgaria brought by the companies ENERGO-PRO and registered at the World Bank's International Investment Dispute Settlement Centre in Washington, respectively and EVN registered a complaint on 19 July 2013, case ERB-1317, and the case of ENERGO-PRO is registered on 26 May 2015. What are the claims against Bulgaria? I understand they're protected by the same firm. What investments of the two ERPs have not been protected by the Bulgarian state, first. Secondly, you can add if there are other cases besides these. The ERPs themselves produce various information in the Bulgarian media. For example, here we read that the case of Energo-PRO was registered in May 2015 and we have information from the media and since 2014 that the ERP is leading cases against the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Minister Petkova, come in. I'd like to make some clarification. Two questions about today's parliamentary control by Mrs. Tasheva. As I have stated, it refers rather to the first order, Mrs. Tasheva, and you have developed the second question about arbitration cases. These are separate questions. Don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u244	These are the cases NEK is leading against energy enterprises for EVN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u245	I assumed there would be such confusion, as the questions are similar.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u246	I'm asking about the arbitration cases filed by the ERPs in Washington. My second question is about the cases NEK is leading. That's two questions. Should I ask her the second question?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u247	They're parted in the program, so let's follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u248	I'll be in charge of arbitration. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Tasheva! In answer to your question, I would like to clarify that the protection of the Bulgarian State in international arbitration cases is organised, coordinated and headed by the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with art. 36, p. 1 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Finance, the procedural representation of the Bulgarian state in front of foreign courts, including in international arbitration proceedings, is assigned the same. In particular, in the two arbitration cases brought by the energy companies ENERGY-PRO and EVN, the Ministry of Energy provides the necessary assistance to the Ministry of Finance by providing various documents that are relevant for carrying out the protection in the case. In this regard, for the purpose of a comprehensive reply, if you consider, of course, you should request information from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u249	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Tasheva, would you like to ask a supplementary question about the one that just ended up? Are you going to use a line, or are you going to proceed to the next question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u250	I'm just gonna make a line. Madam Minister, is it that the Ministry of Finance is constituted as a defendant that you have no idea and cannot answer, for example, the question of the size of the claim, or the arguments, the reasons for filing the claims against our country?! That's what I'm interested in. Explain what investments according to the claims of the ERPs are not protected in the Bulgarian state. You're the Minister of Energy. I assume this is directly in your job description and in your competences?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u251	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, the question you are asking is extremely important and very important for the Bulgarian society, for the Bulgarian energy sector as a whole and for Bulgaria. Since, as you have also mentioned, the Ministry of Finance is practically implementing the state's procedural representation, it is not appropriate for another minister to intervene in the course of this process. In the interest of protection of the Bulgarian interests, it is this question and the answers related to this process to be given by the office which carries out the procedural representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u252	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Tasheva, the next question is also from you. He is also gluttonously determined about lawsuits. Please develop it to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u253	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are listening to this justification that since the previous and the arbitration proceedings are still ongoing, the government cannot give the Bulgarian public any information as to why and where arbitration cases against Bulgaria are being conducted. It's not just the ERPs. There is an arbitration case of the Atomstroyexport versus NEK; there is an arbitration case before international arbitration courts of the Oman Fund and so on. However, we are kept in total darkness because, you see, if society gets any information, it will somehow interfere with the interests of Bulgaria! Too generic, spilled and nothing significant! I'll refer my question to the Minister of Finance. Now I'm thinking of the second question. Answer how many and what cases, which energy companies the National Electricity Company has been leading in the past ten years? What stage are they at? If you can tell me the amount of claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, for the purpose of this reply, information was requested from the National Electric Company, which I will brief you with. At present, the National Electricity Company is party to four arbitration cases with a cost of claims worth 111 million. 174,000. lv. The opposite side in these cases is: CEZ Electro Bulgaria AD, EVN Bulgaria Electricity EAD, ENERGY-PRO Sales. The subject-matter of the claims relates to amounts due for the price of active electricity and to unpaid invoices. At the moment, all four cases are pending. There is also a closed arbitrage case, which is with the opposite party Energo-Pro Sales AD and is for unpaid invoices for the period from August 2013 to January 2014. There was also a counterclaim. The case has been settled by respect of both claims: NEK EAD, and ENERGO-PRO. There has been a set-up between the amounts awarded. In terms of commercial affairs, the National Electric Company is a party to six commercial cases. At present, three of them are pending and have a total cost of 7 million claims. Three hundred and BGN 255. The opposite side of the cases are: Enemona Utilitis, EVN Bulgaria Energy EAD and CEZ Electro Bulgaria. The subject-matter of the claims relates to outstanding contractual obligations, amounts due for the price of active electricity and amounts due for invoices. Three of the companies led by the National Electricity Company are closed. The opposite side of the case is the Energy-Pro Networks, the Energy-Pro Sales and the EVN Bulgaria Electricity. The subject-matter of the claims relates to amounts due for transport price, for a supplement of green energy and for a supplement of high-efficiency cogeneration, amounts due for an active electricity price. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with 502 thousand. BGN 154. and they're rejected. By order of the court, a commercial case has gone to the Electricity System Operator. The case is with the opposite side of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria. It has a price of 5 million. Eight hundred and £64. for amounts due for transport price, for add-on "green energy', for add-on "high-efficiency cogeneration' and add-on "unrecoverable costs'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u256	Thank you. Mrs. Tasheva, can you get a legal line? Here you go. You'll obviously take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u257	Madam Minister, one update, if possible, to submit. First of all, thank you for the detailed reference. We know somewhere since autumn, from November 2013 that NEK brought cases against the three ERPs for its claims for the period from September 2012 to June 2013 for energy transferred and invoiced. Would you please clarify whether these cases have been completed and for whose benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Here you are, Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, the answer to your question is contained in the first part of the answer that I provided and it is related to the four arbitration cases, with the total cost of the claim 174,000. £651. As I have already mentioned, the cases are pending at the moment, so the National Electricity Company continues to be in a legal dispute with these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u260	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. Here you go, Mr. Antonov. Your question concerns a bridge loan contract of 535 million. Euros. By the rules, you have two minutes to develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 21 April 2016, a contract was signed between the Bulgarian Energy Holding and a consortium led by JP Morgan Security, for a bridge loan amounting to 535 million. euros to cover the obligations of the National Electricity Company to the US power plants in the Marishka Basin. You, Mrs. Petkova, have publicly announced that if the loan is not taken to cover the accumulated debt to the US power plants, NEK will have to pay penalties of 3 billion. lv. To compare, I would just like to mention that for the completion of the nuclear power plant, under the current situation, 1 billion are needed. BGN to have a functioning energy block. From everything you have said, it is not clear how this loan will affect Bulgarian energy, as well as all households. Namely: will it lead to an increase in the price of electricity for the end-user in the coming months? There is also no clarity regarding the specific parameters of the loan, no one understood what interest was at stake for it. There is also the question: is there a commission for JP Morgan and if yes, how much is it? Dear Minister, everything that has been said so far gives the impression of opaqueness in the conclusion of the above-mentioned treaty. My question to you is: what are the specific parameters of the contract concluded with regard to interest due and will it create prerequisites for increasing the price of electricity in the coming months? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u262	Madam Minister, this was the question of the MP Vasil Antonov. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u263	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, a very important and very relevant question. Such questions quite logically arise. Before I proceed to the specific answer, I will make the following note.. Since the beginning of 2015 the Bulgarian government started intensive negotiations with the so-called two American power stations. We know that these contracts were concluded in the distant 2001 years under other conditions. Consequently, from 2005 to 2009, a large part of the additional agreements were concluded and, in fact, additional conditions relating to the establishment of a special pledge were agreed with the issuing of State guarantees. So it's a really complicated process. In this regard, on February 20, 2015, after the negotiations with the two US power plants were launched, memorandums of understanding were signed between the National Electricity Company and the AES Maritsa East 1 Consequently, on 14 August 2015, agreements were signed to amend the energy buy-in agreements and the availability price was reduced by 14% for AES Maritsa East 1 In number, the effect of the so agreed reduction in availability prices under the two energy purchase agreements will be more than 96 million. lv. Within the year or more than 900 million lv. for the remaining period of operation of the agreements. Another very important and essential part of the so-called "Basic conditions' signed in April 2015 is the possibility after the introduction of full liberalisation of the electricity market, the parties to discuss further amendment of the energy purchase agreements with a view to aligning them with the new market model. Both amendment agreements provide conditions for their entry into force, one of which is the payment by NEK of the overdue liabilities of the National Electricity Company to the two power plants, reduced by all due payments due from the two power plants to the Mini Maritsa East. In this regard, in September 2015, the Bulgarian Energy Holding launched a procedure for selecting funding institutions to provide financing for the payment of NEK's overdue liabilities to the two plants. After the successful conclusion of the negotiations, a consortium of banks was elected, with which BEH signed a bridge financing contract of 535 million. Euros. With regard to the parameters of the bridge loan, it should be stressed that it is granted without State guarantees and without collateral. This is a bridge financing loan that is linked to bond issuance of the same or larger amount. The bonds should be distributed within 12 months of the absorption of the loan, respectively the Bulgarian energy holding company must issue a bond issue and pay off the debt to the selected creditor with its revenues. It is important to clarify that as a cost the National Electric Company will only take into account the amount of interest of the loan and not the amount of principal of the loan. The annual savings for NEK due to the re-negotiation of the terms of long-term electricity purchase agreements with the two US power plants are greater than the annual interest costs of the loan that the Company would pay. Regarding your question as to whether the loan agreement thus concluded will create prerequisites for increasing the price of electricity, I would remind you that the price of electricity in Bulgaria for the regulated segment is determined by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory and on the free market on the basis of bilateral negotiations or exchange trade. As I have already mentioned, the purpose of the attracted funding was the payment of the overdue liabilities of the National Electricity Company to the two thermal power plants in order to enter into force the agreements reached to reduce availability prices, thereby reducing the costs of NEK as a public supplier. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, the existence of a bridge financing contract by the Bulgarian Energy Holding to pay off the old debts of the National Electric Company to the two US power plants is not a prerequisite for increasing the price of electricity. Finally, with regard to your question about the amount of interest, I would like to clarify that there are confidentiality clauses in the contract concluded, as in any such contract. What I could tell you, as a parameter of interest, is that the maximum period of bridge financing, as I have already mentioned, is 12 months, the average interest rate is approximately 3.8% and is lower than that achieved in the listing of the previous bond, which is 4.25. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With regard to whether there is a remuneration for JP Morgan, there is no such remuneration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u264	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There will be a reply and a possible opportunity for you to complete your answers. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u265	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! It was only at the end that you answered my question, partly. I can't be satisfied and satisfied with that answer. Firstly, the interest you mentioned is extremely high interest at the moment. The interest that is European, and we are talking here about a global company that is working on the loan, European bank interest is currently leaning towards zero. These interest rates that you comment on are for small housing loans and so on. We are not convinced that what you say will not affect prices, especially that the regulatory authority determines the price of electricity, because it is clear that this high interest rate will thus enter the price. She has nowhere to go. The NEK itself (National Electricity Company), its activity is such that it sells electricity, and its transmission accordingly. So I think you're going to figure out how much this interest rate will increase, or who will it be at the expense of? Because if it is not at the expense of interest and does not enter into the direct business of NEK, the other situation must be State aid. And we know that at the moment many of the power plants... As NEK has a lot of money to raise, there is also a lot of money to pay, including the miners, to many of the TPPs in the country, and these are mainly Bulgarian producers. Would you make a similar credit to pay off the Bulgarian companies to whom you owe? That way is my question. The main thing is to evaluate and give us a clear answer as to how much electricity we're going to cost, and how we're going to cover... Besides, if we don't pay her that price, with the current interest... Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u266	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You've got two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, a very important matter undoubtedly and very interesting, but I will allow myself to disagree with you. As is known, 2013 the Bulgarian Energy Holding conducted the same operation. The Bulgarian Energy Holding held the same operation. It withdrew a loan from a bridge loan and then sold a bond of 1 billion again. lv. For comparison only the interest rate on this bond is 4.25%. This interest is paid at present and annually the National Electricity Company pays interest of 44 million in the year. By the end of November, the National Electricity Company paid interest of 44 million. lv.! I don't see any dramatic situations have occurred from these payments. You know how this credit came about. This credit came about because the National Electricity Company had overdue obligations to the two US power plants. I'll take the liberty of taking you back in time. In November 2013, when a price decision of the former State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission made an artificial administrative reduction in the price of the two US power plants by 20 and 30% respectively, as a result of which, with the same price decision, the former State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission obliged the National Electricity Company to continue buying the price from the two US high-priced plants. You know what that means. In just six months, NEC has accumulated a deficit of 400 million. lv. Just this thing! So, dear Mr. Antonov, believe me, I want to assure you from this high tribune that both the Ministry of Energy and the Government and the Bulgarian Energy Holding have put all our efforts and skills into achieving really good parameters. If the Bulgarian side had not paid off the two US power plants, there were very serious risks. Colleagues who have worked in this sector before know what is envisaged if there is a guilty failure on our part. This means that these contracts provided for penalties that we had to pay. In total, they amount to 3 billion. So there is also a particular bet set up in 2005. This particular bet, if activated, means blocking the entire energy system. Once again, we have done everything that is best for the Bulgarian energy sector at this time, and I am sure it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. The next question to Minister Petkova is from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Tanev. It refers to the activities of South Stream. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, to develop the matter to Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u269	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the beginning of April, I asked the Minister of Energy a question regarding information that reached me that still in the South Stream, there are working people on salary and the information that was publicly known, especially after Russian President Putin's statement December 2014, who said that the project itself was terminated, I was surprised that a year and more later there are still people working there. I got an answer to that information, although it wasn't complete, it wasn't answered all my questions. I know that the Ministry of Energy sends them to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Bulgarian Energy Holding responds to you, and you refer them to us, but I had requested information by 2016, including the months of January, February and March, and this was not included. I had also requested information on the breakdown of monthly costs and they were given as weighted average. The information I received from you then provoked me to actually ask this oral question, more precisely an oral question, and I also put a written question in relation to the months that were missed, including April, which expired in the meantime. In the media, you announced on the subject that, in fact, by 2016, there are only six people employed in this enterprise. I was surprised by this information, as a simple reference in APIS shows that for January there are 22 social insurances, for February 22 social insurances, for March 20 social insurances. So hopefully, not when I ask the question April month, they're actually down to six, because that's how it goes out, but maybe you'll disprove me in your answer. Our specific questions are: why the company that does not operate generates an annual cost for 2015 of 4.5 million. lv. and what is the plan to terminate the company and exit the State from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u270	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u271	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ananiev, Mr. Tanev! As is known, South Stream is established in 2010 with the aim of implementing the South Stream Project. The shareholders of the company are the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the company Gazprom. Each of these participants in this company have 50% share capital. According to the statement of revenue and expenditure of the South Stream, Bulgaria and the information provided by it on the records made in the accounts, taking into account the costs of the company for 2015, shows that payments were made in the past 2015 for activities executed under contracts concluded in previous reporting periods. For example, a payment was made in 2015 with regard to environmental impact assessment performances, which was fully completed as early as 2013, with a positive EIA decision issued on 30 August 2013. The EIA contractor was paid for the work carried out only in 2015, as it had waited for the completion of all the appeals of the EIA decision which ended on 11 August 2015, which finally entered into force, and for the company there was an obligation to pay. In 2015, the work with the 2012 contractor selected for the preparation and adoption of a detailed development plan and technical project was completed. In 2015, in addition to the legal challenge of the EIA decision in favour of the company, the building permit of the Compressing Station was completed and a reception terminal was completed. Since the beginning of 2015, actions have been taken to bring the company's activities into line with the status of the project as as of January 2015 employees in the South Stream of Bulgaria. 34 people were employed, as of September 2015, staff were reduced to 19 people, and by today employees are a total of six employees from Bulgarian and Russian countries, including two executive directors on one of the Bulgarian and one of the Russian countries respectively, two technical assistants, one accountant and one driver. With regard to your question about what is the plan to terminate the company, the exit of the State should therefore be taken into account as the fact that the South Stream company is a public limited company in which the decisions relating to its activities are taken by the unanimity of the two shareholders. In conclusion, I should point out that the project company has very valuable assets, and these valuable assets are precisely those documents that I mentioned earlier. This is the environmental impact assessment, this is the technical project that is about to be completed, this is the detailed development plan that the company has. I just want to open a clamp and say that all these documents, all these assets are extremely important. They could be very valuable to Bulgaria in view of our concept of diversification of the eastern routes for natural gas supply and our concept of building the gas distribution centre in Bulgaria, so we should approach pragmatically and really protect to the maximum extent the Bulgarian interests in this situation. And as for the number of people in the company, as I have already mentioned, as early as 2015, we started this reduction process accordingly, but I want it to be clear that there is no way this is going to happen suddenly. It's a company that has assets. Even if it is moving towards its closure, it is necessary to carry out the entire procedure that the law provides for in terms of sale of assets, in terms of drawing up a balance sheet and so on. These are processes that can't just be abandoned and someone does them without being at work at the company. You see, we've done the right thing. The numbers are reduced to a minimum. These are six people who will also have this task to finalise, so to speak, this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u272	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Will there be a line, Mr. Ananiev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. With most of the information you provided, I am aware that BEH is 100% owned by the state and is actually a state company. I think that if the Bulgarian state decides to terminate its participation, it can do so. Among the assets you spoke of, you mentioned nothing of the 200 million capital. lv. I wanted to put it in the exhibition in the first place, but I didn't have time. Of this capital 200 million, 100 million were given by the Russian side, and 100 million were taken as a loan from the Bulgarian side by the Bulgarian side by Gazprom. I don't know why we're still holding this capital on such a large amount. Why not reduce the capital and the 100 million that we have borrowed, at least close this loan and not due? In my opinion, this is also a good management practice that can be undertaken. I know, and we all know that we are following the subject that the government has taken a lot of measures to close the energy deficit, which is closed in half. The facts are facts, but I think we can also direct our efforts into still optimizing the costs themselves to completely close this hole and then think in what way the deficit itself as a sum, how we will deal with it, because it sits there as a millstone. The only thing that bothers me is those 20 people in March were socially insured 20 people. You say it's six. Maybe this happened now May or April, but I'm going to ask you to check this thing out because it's just getting away with it. You may have been misled as information, but anyone can get into APIS. I am using the information from APIS, so I will ask you, as we have always stated that we want more transparency in energy itself, to optimize the costs themselves, so that money can be directed and spent where it should be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u274	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Madam Minister, to supplement your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ananiev, I agree with you that Bulgarian energy needs cost optimization. We're working this way. Believe me, it is not easy at all, but the whole government has mobilised our efforts with your help, with the help of the Bulgarian Parliament, I think that within the last year we have quite good results, but, of course, there is much more to be desired and we will continue to work in this direction. We'll count on you, of course, a lot. With regard to your concern about the South Stream and the finalisation of this process, this capital issue and the loan that the Bulgarian Energy Holding took in July 2014 respectively. Of course, this is one of the topics to be solved either in the future by the two shareholders, so this is one of the reasons why the company has to operate, there must be an accountant, there must be executives, management bodies to take these really important decisions accordingly. I take the commitment to verify what you indicated as information from the APIS respectively and the information that I have in my possession, but I think that this information that I have provided to you, and also colleagues from BEH, from South Stream, is reliable information. Maybe this is about some misunderstanding in the system, but I'm committed to checking and informing you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. This was the last question addressed in the framework of today's parliamentary control to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. Thank you for your participation today. We continue with questions addressed to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, who will answer a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev, concerning the policy of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the so-called offshore companies. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev. Mr. Minister, to guide you there are questions that have been withdrawn. We're going from t. 5 of the Programme. Ask about offshore companies. Mr. Trenchev, you have the floor to develop it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! It has been known for years that many of the largest commercial companies operating in the Republic of Bulgaria, especially in the sphere of increased public interest, are owned by companies with unknown owners registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime and strictly respected banking and tax secrecy, so-called offshore companies. As companies owned by similar entities with unclear ownership operate in a sector with increased fiscal risk and affecting the economic interests of large groups of citizens, a Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime, related persons and actual owners was adopted in 2014. As in the media and in the official documents of your trusted Ministry, there is no accurate data from the effect of implementing the Law. If there is a reduction in offshore companies operating in Bulgaria, are the bans applied under art. 3 of the quoted Law? For example, are there any public procurement participants suspended? How many real owners registered in the Commercial Register are registered under the Law? There is no public data on the impact assessment of the implementation of the Ordinance. At the same time, there is no evidence whether there are factors in the Bulgarian legislation to force certain investors to use offshore companies to keep their funds there? There is no evidence that business is not afraid of instability in the banking system, the possibility of leaking confidential information and so on. A complete analysis should also be made as to whether some of the funds transferred to offshore companies can be returned to the country and how. The question of whether a tax amnesty can be carried out when transferring funds from offshore companies to Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria, with the proceeds being subject to one-off tax of a certain amount, as was done in Germany in 2009 or for example in Russia in 2014. In this regard, I would like to have an answer to the following questions: first, what are the results of the application of the Law better known in society as the Law on offshores? How many registered real owners are there? Secondly, has the Ministry been produced in your trust for the analysis of the capitals leaked from Bulgaria in offshore companies? Is there an estimate of their size and the tax effect of their leakage? Have analyses been prepared of the reasons why Bulgarian citizens refuse to keep their money in the country and are there any proposals for legislative initiatives in this direction? Is tax amnesty moving for persons who have transferred funds to offshore companies in Bulgaria? Are there any estimates of the tax effect of such a step in the application of an exceptional tax of a certain amount with indicative rates of 15-30-45%, which was available in a number of countries in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u278	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Mr. Minister, the procedure provides for five minutes to answer the question asked. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u279	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are no ladies. The law on economic and financial relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, called for a short time the offshore companies' Act, aims to protect the public interest by introducing a prohibition on companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and related persons to carry out activities in the most significant areas of the economy, or to acquire companies operating in such areas that are particularly sensitive from the point of view of society. I dare say that Bulgaria is globally one of the most adequate in terms of the regulatory frameworks of these regimes. In response to your first question, it should be noted that the Ministry of Finance has not collected and has no information on the practical implementation of art. 3 of the Law, and immediately I am in a hurry to answer why. The verification that the data and circumstances of a company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime and its actual owners are entered in the Commercial Register shall be carried out by the relevant competent authorities which issue a licence or declare a public procurement procedure, concession, privatisation transaction and others within the restricted scope of the Law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Art. 1. 8 of the Law, administrative infringements shall be established by the authorities of the competent administration concerned, administrative penalties shall be imposed by the Head of Administration or an official authorised by him. On your second question, I can assure you that, given the extremely high risk of the use of offshore companies for tax evasion over the last two years, we have initiated a number of measures to prevent tax evasion and evasion from these companies. Such are, for example, the provisions adopted in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, according to which there is a presumption of connectivity between the owners of the capital of a local legal person and the offshore company, the change in the annual tax return under art. 92 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax, according to which taxable persons are obliged to declare information relating to transactions carried out with persons in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In response to your third question, world practice shows that companies established in offshore areas are not only used for tax evasion and non-tax evasion, but these companies invest capital of unclear origin and acquired from criminal activity, or are used to launder money and finance terrorism by international criminal and terrorist organisations. To counter tax fraud and tax evasion in which offshore companies are used, the governments of the G20 Member States, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union launched a joint large-scale Programme to stimulate the exchange of information for tax purposes between countries, to encourage disclosure of information by jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and to block taxpayers' tax evasion opportunities. In October 2015, the Republic of Bulgaria joined the International Initiatives of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development for Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes In March 2016, our country joined the OECD BEPS Project. By the end of 2016 Bulgaria will join the new initiative of the OECD "The multilateral agreement between the competent authorities for the exchange of information country by country." The accession to the Agreement will allow the exchange of financial information on the structure and activities of multinational companies, their subsidiaries and their places of business, revenues, profits, taxes, capital, tangible and intangible financial assets, number of persons employed and others. On the fourth point, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Finance does not foresee the introduction of a tax amnesty for persons who have transferred funds from Bulgaria to their offshore companies and does not develop proposals for changes in the regulations. Such a measure is extreme from our point of view, which is used extremely rarely because, on the one hand, it undermines the foundations of the tax system and tax culture and, on the other hand, can create a sense of injustice for taxable persons. It should be borne in mind that the scope of tax amnesty does not include income, profits and assets acquired as a result of criminal activity. We certainly think in one direction and we believe that those who carry out their business, using similar jurisdictions for this reason, have something to hide, about this and any information that reaches the tax administration and the government for Bulgarian citizens who are doing their business in this way, become automatically subject to special treatment by the revenue administration, understand checks and revisions to determine how much the organization of the business, business through such offshore companies has not led and does not lead to a diversion from paying taxes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u280	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Trenchev, you have the opportunity for two supplementary questions to Minister Goranov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I realize that the effort to prevent negative practices implemented through the use of offshore companies could hardly be a Bulgarian initiative and that it can only be decided by our country. It must obviously be a serious international effort which, without the clear will of the European Union and of our international partners, and obviously without the greatest economic factor in the world, is simply in the fantasy sphere, but there are a number of things that we can regulate by our laws. You mentioned art. 3 of the Law on offshore companies, where the economic activities in which offshore companies should not be involved are quite detailed. But, unfortunately, from my observations and from my conversations with experts, they say it is evident by deepening a little person in the subject matter that in art. 4 where the exceptions are, they are not so few and this gives the economic players opportunities respectively, I do not want to use the word "to surround" but it does not suit me better, the bans of art. 3. So maybe you should really think about clearing the restrictions. Some of them aren't that indisputable. With regard to the first question I asked you....................................................................................................... If there is any possibility, I would ask you to gather data on this matter, it seems very important to me. What you said about the reason certain citizens keep their money in offshore companies. Clearly, tax amnesty does not cover when it is capital acquired by criminal activity, but over the years there have been quite dark times when many people have exported their money offshore, purely out of fear of repression, of economic stability, of the lack of banking secrecy. As a person who worked in a bank, I would like to tell you that very recently among the big banks in Bulgaria it was possible for you to look at the assets of each individual and the economic face and see absolutely their punitives with the most simple computer. In my opinion, there is something to be done here regarding the regulation of our legal base. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And the last thing I want to ask is in terms of amnesty: why did so many countries do it? Why did Germany do it, why did Italy do it, if you think the results were more negative than positive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u282	Thank you. You delayed the time, Mr. Trenchev, but the questions were interesting. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Trenchev, the questions you are asking are quite clear. What I want to assure you, or at least to reason from this tribune in terms of amnesty, is that if someone has acted in good faith, protecting their economic interests and migrating resources from Bulgaria in the direction of external destinations, whether they are offshore or not, and for them they have paid taxes, the state has no problem with that. The return of such assets should not be governed by taxation. If someone has hidden taxes and thus received a comparative advantage, it is not clear whether the state should amnesty such behaviour, stimulating the return of such capital, most often formed by, if not criminal, it is certainly illegal activity. I therefore commit to contact the state authorities, which issue licenses related to the main bans of the scope of the Law. 3, which you quoted, and to summarize such information. What I can quote you now is that, as far as I know, the law is being respected. In this sense, none of the prohibitions of art. 3 is not impaired or there is no evidence that it is impaired on the basis of the analysis carried out by the regulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Trenchev, you have the opportunity to take an attitude procedure. You're giving up. Gentlemen, taking into account the extended working time until the adoption of the first two points of today's agenda and the time used for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups, the clear time for parliamentary control expires at 15.35 pm. There's a question from Mr. Trenchev to Mr. Minister. Perhaps this will be the last chance. This question is largely covered by the subject of the question. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev. As announced by the programme, the issue concerns the alleged expiry of taxes from the Republic of Bulgaria to the countries and territories which are jurisdictional with preferential tax regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, today we are on an offshore topic. In early April, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists published a huge amount of documents that reveal offshore companies in Panama to companies from all over the world, including Bulgaria, who have been hiding taxes from governments. A number of countries have managed to recover hundreds of billions of euros over the past ten years after large-scale leaks of information on tax evasion in offshore companies. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what measures will the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance take to investigate possible tax evasion by Bulgarian companies in offshore areas, in particular in Panama, but not only? Secondly, what are the damage done to the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian economy from tax evasion by Bulgarian companies in offshore areas over the last three years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u286	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u287	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Trenchev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Since the beginning of the process for disclosure of the names of documents from Panama, the National Revenue Agency has started to examine the information available for Bulgarian persons who have offshore companies, accounts or operations. You quoted the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists on May 9th as having access to all the data known as the Panama Documents. The information is analysed in detail and significant control actions are already taken by the NRA. In the context of your answer to the question regarding the so-called "offshore companies', I would like to assure you that all international instruments to combat cross-border tax evasion, diverted taxation and the tax fraud that I have pointed out will be used to verify the information received under the Panama Protocols, as well as the collection of additional information and data relevant to the taxation of persons. As regards your second question, I would like to inform you that an analysis and risk assessment has been drawn up by the NRA in 2015 regarding transfer profits and incomes from local legal entities to persons established in Member States of the European Union or third countries that are part of multinational companies. The analysis covers the period from 2008 to 2013 with an estimated estimate of 2014 and 2015 and includes an examination of the behaviour of local persons involved in multinational groups of enterprises. The losses for the State budget of corporate tax as a result of the realised transfers of profits and income, both to jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and to other countries, are assessed in total and therefore no specific data on the amount of loss formed as a result of transfers of profits and income to offshore companies can be provided. Summary results show that the risk is high. The loss of corporate tax is estimated at around 260 million. lv. average annual for the period analysed. The risk is manifested in 26% of local legal entities, which are part of a multinational group of enterprises and represent about 5000 companies. In this regard, a long-term risk management strategy is planned to be developed to include a set of measures justified at the time of their implementation in order to limit the emergence of the risk in the future. In February 2016, a group of experts in the NRA was formed, which, by the end of July this year, should develop a strategy for countering the risk associated with foreign transfers of profits and incomes, an idea wider than you are putting on offshore companies only. In addition, I can inform you that for 2013, which is part of the period analysed, an attempt has been made to experimentally examine the distribution of large local legal entities in terms of geographical location of foreign companies targeted by transfers of profits and income. The result of the studies shows that 70% of the large companies identified as companies that transfer their profits to companies from EU Member States, geographically 70% are Austria, Germany, Greece, Italy, Cyprus and the Netherlands, 24% of the large companies are re-assigning profits formed in the country mainly to the US, Turkey, Switzerland and Russia, 6% are redirecting their profits to jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, mainly to British Virgin Islands, Seychelles, Liechtenstein and Belize.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u288	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line? I won't. Obviously we will be able to include the issue of MPs Martin Dimitrov, Valeri Simeonov, Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov to Minister Goranov. It is about the subject of a contract for the International Investigative Company for KTB AD, its international experience, the existence of terms of damages and deadlines for implementation provided for in this contract. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u289	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On 14 April the National Assembly adopted final amendments to the Law on Bankruptcy, according to which the international investigation for the draining of KTB AD is made public. In addition to the investigation report itself, texts have been adopted to declare the subject of the contract, i.e. what is the assignment to the investigative company, data on its international experience, the deadline for the implementation of the contract and the possible existence of penalties and anexes to the contract. In this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer the following question, taking into account the moment of the entry into force of the above-mentioned amendments to the Bankruptcy Act: what is the subject of the contract with the International Investigation Company for KTB AD? Are there signed anexes and additions to it and regarding what? How much is the direct international experience of the investigative company as countries in which it has worked, period of practice, and what is the deadline for implementation and are there provisions for penalties for execution of both the company to us and us to it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u290	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u291	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov, Slavov, Andreyev, is missing Mr. Simeonov! Regardless of the publication of the information about the contract with the International Investigation Company, we sent your questions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The information provided to us by the CCB Syndicates is already uploaded to the Bank's bankruptcy page in compliance with the requirements of the supplemented item. Article 17 31. Specifically on the subject. The unions shall indicate that the subject-matter of the contract is in line with the requirements of art. 31 of the Bankruptcy Act, which prescribes them to assign an international investigative company to carry out follow-up actions and recommend to the syndicate actions to preserve and restore assets to the bank's assets. No anexes have been signed to the contract. The duration of the draft final report shall be 14 weeks from the start of the contract. The final version of the contract was adopted by the trade union on 7 December 2015. The contract agreed interest for late payment of 4% above the Bank of England's base interest rate. There are no other penalties agreed upon for failure to comply with CCB, including no penalty has been agreed in favour of Alix Partners U.K.L.P. when publishing the report. However, the property liability of CCB may be committed to damages, losses, expenses, claims or other expenses of Alix Partners Services U.K.L.P. arising from or in connection with the contract, including claims from third parties as a result of disclosure of consultations or of the report. The reciprocal responsibility of Alix Partners Service U.K. L.L.P. can be committed to losing CCB because of the company's or its employees. Claims for default and/or limited financial liability do not involve the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria and/or the Republic of Bulgaria. On the second question, on the international experience of Alix Partners Service U.K. L.L.P., detailed information was published on the CCB website. I would just like to point out that the essential thing in assessing the experience of the contractor in the contract is not its specific legal form, but the experience and qualification of the team, which is also the main asset of the companies that work in the field of consulting services.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u292	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line to the given answer? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u293	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! One important question is not clear, in our view, what is the subject of the contract with the company for international investigation? Look, Minister, all this time we wanted more than just a report from a company like this. These international investigation companies are hired to trace the money and return some of it. They are known for this, and in a number of cases they have been able to return not a small part of the funds that have been used, which have been drained. Our perplexity and therefore we will continue to ask questions: we cannot understand why the Syndicates gave up this "Alix Partners" to participate in the return of the money, and was this at all part of the subject matter of the contract? Was there such a clause and they obviously didn't activate it? Was there, wasn't there? We couldn't figure that out. What's the point of having an international investigation company just to write a report? As they say, other people could have written it. Not that it's a bad report, on the contrary. The point is that this company specializes in tracking the money and then together with the Syndicates, of course it can't participate alone in the recovery of the money and in revealing the persons involved. In all this time we could not understand why the Syndicates and the Deposit Guarantee Fund did not activate this clause, if there was, and why they did not ask this international company or for any reason, if they did not like it, another international company, to be engaged in the real tracking and return of the money. Instead, we can see from your other answer that they have directed three specific law firms in other countries. That is, why the initial approach has been replaced by a different approach. Since we don't know who these law firms are, they're probably good, we have no doubt, but imagine what the experience of any law firm is against the background of an international investigation firm, which is already in similar cases with bankrupt banks, with drained banks managed to return some of the money, to make a positive result. Why did this change of approach occur and whether there was a clause in the contract..Alix Partners.... or another company to be used in the real recovery, the return of the money and why is it not activated? That's what we couldn't figure out. The question is, do you have this information from the Deposit Guarantee Fund or from the Syndicates?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u294	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Minister, let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Dimitrov, the most valuable thing of the activity carried out by the investigating company is the report which clearly understands that the bankrupt company was not managed by bank standards. The other essential conclusion that can be drawn by reading the report is that a direct link to this bankruptcy can be made with the way it is managed not only by its operational management, but also the role of its majority shareholders. What I can complement with regard to measures relating to the recovery of the insolvency table, in many answers to you, I congratulate you on the interest in the subject, I hope it is rational, I have indicated all the measures taken by the trade union as precautionary measures relating to the balance sheet of CCB in bankruptcy with a view to returning to the table of insolvency of the stolen from there. We have talks with Alix Partners and we will use them for specific activities where they can be the most useful related to the international investigation. Much of the assets related to the accumulated gaps in the bank and the capital losses are related to the Republic of Bulgaria territorially, in this case we have committed a huge volume of law firms that help the bank's trade union to link the broken link between the secured loans received by CCB in bankruptcy with specific assets. The majority of these assets continue and are in the territory of Bulgaria. In this sense, the benefit of the international company will be for activities that we need in the territory of other countries where we find or where we see a link between the bank's assets or the bank's assets, which is lost and other assets that can be linked to the bank in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-03.u296	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Gentlemen, it's 3:41 p.m. Due to the passing of time for today's parliamentary day, I am forced to close the session. Mr. Minister, there were more questions, the answers will be postponed for another meeting. Thank you for your participation. We're adjourned. The next regular meeting of the Bulgarian Parliament is on Wednesday, 8 June at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
