ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. We are launching the new plenary session. Today is the first plenary Wednesday in May, which is why the Work Programme of the National Assembly is formed according to the order of art. 50, para. 8, namely on a proposal from the parliamentary groups with a view to their rotation and order for the respective month. For this month are the first MPs from the group of GERB. It's proposed, and that becomes t. 1, Second vote on the Electronic Identification Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 January 2016. The proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. The draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, a continuation of a previous plenary session. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The Reformation Block Parliamentary Group is proposing, and this is what happens. 3 for today, First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers ".. Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. No proposals were received from the other parliamentary groups. The program, which I announced yesterday in accordance with the Rules, is further back included: Second vote on the Electronic Identification Bill. As this is GERB's proposal, it goes by para. 8 and becomes t. One for today. Next, we continue with the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Next, a proposal to produce a national referendum with questions: "1." Do you support the election of the MPs by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? 2. Do you support reducing the number of MPs to 120? 3. Do you support the introduction of a mandatory vote in elections and referendums? 4. Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? 5. Do you support the annual state subsidy granted to finance political parties and coalitions to be one lev for a real vote in the last parliamentary elections? 6. Do you support the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the heads of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be elected by a majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two rounds? Importer. "Initiative Committee, 8 February 2016. It is planned to be t. 1 for Thursday, 12 May In accordance with Following the draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and for opening a new procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, importers Peter Slavov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, and a draft decision to terminate the procedure for election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, importers, Delyan Dobrev and a group of Members of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. 8. Draft decision to take an act from Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer "The Council of Ministers." 11. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which traditionally takes place every first Wednesday for the month at 12:00 p.m., but for today, letters have been received from Prime Minister Borisov, from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and Rumyana Bachvarova, with international commitments. There is also a letter from Mrs. Kuneva who has a commitment in the country and cannot be present. Mr. Kalfin, as deputy prime minister and minister of resignation, will also not participate, so there will be virtually no blitz-control today. And remains: Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 160 MPs: 125 against 16, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was asked by the gentlemen Atanas Merdjanov and Georgi Gokov to include the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Emergency System with single European number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted on 11 December 2015 by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The proposal will be protected by Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear governors of GERB, many spoke about this bill. We from BSP left Bulgaria. We import it. You reject it or agree to enter the weekly program, and then with procedural grips you make it drop and not vote. Perhaps you have some vague and unhealthy motives to continue to drag on in time and not allow the necessary provisions to be adopted in order to resolve this so important... [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] I'm sorry. You may have some vague and unhealthy motives to continue dragging it through time and not allowing the necessary provisions to be adopted in order to solve this important and pressing problem for over 100,000 people with impaired hearing and impaired speech opportunities, and they are waiting for our solution. I don't understand, they don't understand why the National Assembly has no will to solve their problem. Our proposal should be unanimous and adopted unanimously by all MPs, because if we do not make this amendment in the Law, a large part of the citizens of Bulgaria remain not only disadvantaged, but also at risk for their lives in emergency situations. In theory, everyone has the right to equal access to 112, but practically most people remain deprived of it. Now I pray that the moment of this point has finally come. The text of the Bill is short and clear to provide conditions for access to the National Emergency System for People with Hearing and Speaking Disabilities. The bill already has unanimous support in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and in the Committee on Health. I remind you that we received the support of all parliamentary groups, including the Minister of Interior, when the bill was introduced on 11 December last year, declaring readiness to accept these changes. I suggest that the item be included in the weekly program and I ask you to support us. It doesn't take more than 150,000. BGN, will not affect the budget in any way. A little money will be spent, but with great effect. I expect your unanimous support for the inclusion of the Bill in the National Assembly's weekly agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u3	We vote, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u4	Gokov, we're going to surprise you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u5	Vote 164 MPs: 159 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, this is a point that excites the Bulgarian public very much. Once the text has been refined, the bill has passed through Health, through the Internal Commission, you know that there is a positive opinion there, I propose that, with this political consensus that was reached in both committees, the item be included in the weekly agenda for Thursday as the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u7	On Thursday, the first item is the referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u8	On Thursday, then, the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u9	A reverse opinion? Mr. Gyokov, back position? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u10	Madam President, Mr. Tsvetanov, I am extremely pleased that we have agreed on the agenda, but I think it would be better to be the first item on Friday because of the whole agenda there will still be no possibility. If you don't mind, let's make it the first point on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u11	You are essentially making a new proposal, Mr. Gokov. I am obliged to put to a vote in the order in which the proposals are made. First I will put to the vote Mr. Tsvetanov's proposal, and then yours, if the first one is not supported. I put to the vote the proposal that the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the National Emergency System Act with single European 112 be included as point two for tomorrow, 12 May 2016. They voted 147 MPs: 131, none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u12	Dear Madam President, a moment ago you practically announced that the GERB government abdicates the power as you canceled the blitzcontrol! This is the first time in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament [[(noise, laughter and shouting from GERB:]] when the prime minister and deputy prime ministers practically violate the Constitution's requirement that we are a parliamentary republic! The Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, whoever they are, are obliged to comply with the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and to form their agenda according to the agenda of parliament, not vice versa! As you have driven it, you will also cancel Friday's control, which is why, Madam President, in the spirit of parliamentaryism, we insist, since today it was not possible to schedule blitzcontrol tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u13	Dear Mr. Gechev, this issue was debated earlier this morning at the Conference of Presidents. A similar offer came from Mr. Imamov. I have informed him that I have fulfilled my duties under the Rules of Procedure in order to seek a possible solution for the conduct of the blitzcontrol by the end of this week, as you have proposed. There is no such possibility in view of the Prime Minister's commitments and two Deputy Prime Ministers. Mr. Kalfin, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Retire, refuses to participate not only in the blitzcontrol, but also in Friday's weekly control. For this reason, we have made it clear to the Conference of Presidents that I will announce these circumstances in plenary. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 April to 10 May 2016: A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importers "Peter Slavov" and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. A bill for wearing clothing, covering or hiding the face. Importers.. Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importers - Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. Importer Roumen Ivanov and group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importer "Iliya Iliev" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Budget and Finance Committee. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2015. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the importer. It will be watched by the Committee on Education and Science. Project for a decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the Center for Urban Mobility. Importer Zhelyo Boychev and group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs will see it. Annual report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2015. Importer "Bulgarian National Bank." Distributed to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill ratifying the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It will also be seen by the Foreign Policy Committee. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (CCI) 2014TC16I5CB006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Leading the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importer Peter Slavov, Metodi Andreyev and Martin Dimitrov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Administrative Monitoring Report 2015 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020 Importer The Council of Ministers. Distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights; the Committee on Education and Science; the Committee on Health; the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government; the Committee on Culture and Media; the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform you that on 10 May 2016 a Decree No 127 of the President of the Republic has been received under art. 101 of the Constitution by which the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code was adopted by the National Assembly on 28 April 2016 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. By letter No 652-21-1 of 11 May 2016, I was informed of the following: On 10 May 2016 a general meeting of the Parliamentary Group was held. The General Assembly has decided: 1. He elected President of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria. 2. The management of the parliamentary group is composed of: Cornelia Petrova Ninova President; Angel Petrov Naydenov Vice-President; Rumen Vassilev Gechev Vice-President; Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski Secretary, Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev Speaker; Kristian Ivanov Vigenin Secretary; Filip Stefanov Popov Secretary. The group therefore requests the necessary actions to be carried out, according to art. 13, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A copy-extract from a decision of the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, held on 10 May 2016. By letter No 652-22-2 of 11 May 2016, I was informed by Mr Mustafa Karadaye, Chair of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that at a meeting held today of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a decision was taken to change the leadership of the parliamentary group. The application shall be based on art. 13, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to order entry into the special register of the National Assembly of changes in the management of the parliamentary group and the same circumstance to be announced in the plenary session of the Forty-third National Assembly and the content of the minutes of the meeting, states: 1. Changes in the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. 2. Sort of. ) (a.k.a. 1 "Selects leadership of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Chamber: Mustafa Sali Karadaiy. Chairman of the PG of the DPS; Yordan Kirilov Tsonev; Vice-President of the PG of the DPS; Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev; Deputy Chairman of the PG of the DPS; Chetin Hussein Kazak; Vice-President of the PG of the DPS; Rushen Mehmed Riza; Deputy Chairman of the PG of the DPS; Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov; Deputy Chairman of the PG of the DPS; Ferrihan Iliyzova. On 4 May 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2016 to 25 May 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2016 to 25 May 2020. No 639-00-7 was received in the National Assembly a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 March 2016 - 24 April 2016 and Protocol No 22 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. The report is sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On May 9th of this year, with an I.V. No 602-00-34 of the National Assembly received a Report on the activities of the State and Financial Inspection Agency for 2015. By my letter the Report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing statistics on: business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in April 2016; general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic and international market prices in March 2016; indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade' without trade in cars and motorcycles in March 2016; indexes of industrial production in March 2016; indexes of construction production in March 2016; consumer surveillance in April 2016. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, according to parliamentary practice, at the beginning of each new session there is an opportunity to hear the declarations of the parliamentary groups on the accents of each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions. By common decision and by consensus reached at the Presidential Council, they will be broadcast directly on the National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. Please turn on the cameras and microphones. Dear heads of parliamentary groups, you have the floor. Mr. Tsvetanov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are starting the new summer session from the work of the National Assembly with a clear awareness of how important it is not to lose the pace of our country's development against the backdrop of the lasting political and social instability that we see in most countries in our region. This is assessed positively by our international political partners as well as by foreign and domestic investors in the Bulgarian economy. GERB takes into account as important the efforts of the ruling coalition to maintain the state's development over the past 18 months and declares its strong intention not to back down from this management philosophy. GERB will continue to comply with its legislative activities with public expectations and citizens' interests. Contacts with our people are charging us with the belief that it is GERB that is the party that stands closest to them and knows their needs and problems best. The aim is for the policies proposed by us to be in line with the public opinion and attitudes of citizens. Solving each individual's problems will remain our priority from now on. This management program and this approach of GERB enjoys the approval and support of our representatives in the executive power in the country, for which I thank them. The reform of the judiciary continues to be a priority in the legislative intentions of the GERB Parliamentary Group and in the upcoming political season. We are determined to work for modern judicial legislation and this to be a permanent and targeted effort for us in the coming months. The specific legislative changes regarding judicial reform, which we must adopt during this parliamentary session, are: the second part of the amendments to the Judicial Law aimed at validating the judicial self-government, limiting the possibilities for administrative influence on the independence of the court and extending the powers of the general meetings of judges and the Inspectorate to the SJC. The adoption of the bills amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure is also essential to limit the possibility of returning cases to further investigation and thus significantly shortening the time of the entire criminal proceedings. New articles on the fight against financial crime and cybercrime must be introduced in the Criminal Code. We are confident that with the adoption of these changes we will strengthen the rule of law in Bulgaria and thus contribute to greater confidence of Bulgarian citizens in the rule of law and institutions in the country. GERB expects us to work in a constructive dialogue on the topic with both MPs from the parliamentary groups supporting the government of Boyko Borisov and all other MPs because this is required by the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. As a party successor and leading political power in the government, GERB will continue to work steadily and to increase the trust of the Bulgarians in the political elite in Bulgaria. The main focus of these efforts is the fight against corruption at all levels. With his actions GERB showed that we do not distinguish between our and foreign corrupt politicians and senior officials. Moreover, it is clear from our practices in recent years that we are stricter to those privileged by our representatives in power than to those politicians outside our party. GERB strives publicly to prove the existence or absence of corruption practices in every particular case that has attracted public attention, as transparency in our opinion guarantees more confidence in our efforts to combat corruption. However, the subject of corruption should not become a cause for witch hunting, nor should it become an occasion for masking selfish aspirations towards disarming political or business opponents. Good legislation should hinder corruption practices and provide serious penalties for registering them. I can't help but mention that Romania's experience really attracts the attention of the Bulgarians. I don't think it's a weakness to take advantage of good practices in other countries. On the contrary, this is called a determination to fight corruption. The most tangible country in the fight against corruption in the government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is the reduction of smuggling and the serious increase in revenues in the budget. Only in the first four months of 2016 have we collected more than 1 billion. BGN, which enabled the government in the last 18 months to provide more than 200 million. lv. for the Bulgarian pensioners outside the intended budget. This, honourable Members on the left, is a true social policy, not the distribution of uncollected money on unclear criteria through the unjustified economic logic of an investment programme, as was Prime Minister Oresharski's. [[Applause from GERB.]] And here let us note that the government, with the latest decisions of the Council of Ministers, made a very clear request for the development of the Northwest and the provision of targeted funds for the development of the region. [[Applause from GERB.]] The effective fight against corruption has led to the highest economic growth in Bulgaria since the beginning of the global economic crisis in 2008. An additional contribution to this is the excellent absorption of the funds from the European funds, in which our country has come close to almost one hundred percentage indicators from the previous programming period. Another election promise that we continue to fulfil is the realization of the national program for renovation of multi-family homes, with which you know that more than 2 billion. lv. will enter the Bulgarian households and will support the economy. In the new session, I expect to reach a political consensus on concrete measures for financial stabilisation of the Bulgarian municipalities. With the amendments to the Public Finance Act, we need to introduce a mechanism for the recovery of municipalities in poor financial condition, and with the amendments to the Local Taxes and Fees Act, we need to introduce a more fair and successful principle in the definition and collection of local levies. I am confident that this will give a better perspective for the development of local self-government in Bulgaria. Speaking of consensus, I can't help but mention that GERB pays a high price for its loyalty to the political platforms of its coalition partners. GERB definitely does not accept the attempts for opposition speech and ultimative tone by our coalition partners from ABB and part of the Reformation bloc. You cannot, honourable Members, take into account the successes of the government Borisov equal to us, and when there is some public discontent, you can stand in an opposition position. This is not fair, it is not partnerly and it is not constructive in terms of our perspective of working together and future. People may not be aware of the details, of the thin accounts of one or another of you, but they sense the forgery and will punish with their vote any attempt at political unprincipledness. In this context, I strongly state that the only elections in 2016 for which GERB is preparing are the presidential elections in autumn. We have no intention of challenging a preliminary parliamentary vote. The ruling horizon to which we are looking is the full mandate of the cabinet Borisov, because only this way the reforms set out in the cabinet management programme can be implemented. [[Applause from GERB.]] I call on our coalition partners to consolidate ourselves around our support for the government and to refrain from political provocations. Let there be no doubt in the fact that GERB is the only party in Bulgaria that is ready at any time to go to elections. The only clear opposition of GERB in parliament and beyond are opposition parties BSP and DPS. With them we have value differences, separate us and the results of their joint governments, which were assessed by our Euro-Atlantic partners as a failure. It is in the face of these two parties that we see our main opponents for the upcoming presidential elections. However, this does not prevent us from congratulating Mrs Cornelia Ninova with her choice as the leader of BSP and wishing her a fruitful job at the head of the party of Bulgarian Socialists. GERB will traditionally raise its presidential and vice president candidates, but we are open to the right political space in a possible second round to achieve support for the best presented presidential couple by the ruling coalition. As well as the nominations for the presidential elections, I call for a tolerant and correct campaign that will not further discourage the Bulgarian voter. Let us together protect the meaning of the free vote and the right to choose. We welcome this to have many and worthy candidates for Head of State so that the Bulgarians can make a real choice. However, we would not like the forthcoming serious legislative season of the National Assembly to pass under the sign of masked, public election appearances from the parliamentary tribune. We must not forget that our constituents are watching very closely whether we are working for them and whether we are making the necessary efforts to improve their lives. Have a good trip in the summer political season! Let's be healthy, sensible and dialogueal! That's what we're all gonna get out of. Thank you. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The Chairman of the group Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're starting this session in a complicated setting. Determined in two words, it is a political crisis, expected and predictable political instability. The government of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front and the ABB were born as an alliance of interests - personal and close parties. This union did not give birth to policies, but produced fights, scandals about the distribution of influence and posts, mistaken reforms, floating majorities and uncertainty in the Bulgarian society. Trust in institutions and statehood continues to fall. Bulgaria's debts continue to grow, but they did not lead to noticeable growth in the economy, to improve people's lives, to increase the quality of education or access to health care, to increase incomes and security. The specific reason to polish the entire bankruptcy of this club of interests headed by Mr. Borisov became the Election Code. Through it, each of you parties in the ruling majority have seen the opportunity to concreteize their party survival, to guarantee themselves in power, because with the participation in this government you have rejected your voters and you do not see the future. You have decided that not the policy you are pursuing, not the support of the people, but a law can guarantee you this political future. You didn't even stop to break the principles of democracy and the Supreme Law. You didn't make it! And instead of admitting your failure, you're looking for a convenient excuse. Before the Congress of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, any reproach on your government justified the upcoming leadership battle. Don't even think after the Congress of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to justify your own infirmity, political inability to rule the country with the Bulgarian Socialist Party! Don't even think of suggesting to the public that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the cause of the collapse of your coalition that it has entered the behind-the-scenes, in preliminary agreements with the ABB, in order to withdraw them from the government. Admit the real reason for this decay, and it is: the ship is sinking and leaving.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u17	Who? [[Applause. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u18	In this complex situation, we cannot fail to see the role of the Head of State. This man did not find it necessary to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens when you subjected them to genocide with the health reform. He did not find it necessary to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens when you took away their equal access to education. He didn't find it necessary to protect them when you introduced Mr. Kalfin with the unfair pension reform that deprives young people of the right to retire. Of course, he found it necessary to protect the monopolies and trade chains against the Bulgarian producers. And today it suddenly dawned with the feeling that it is a Head of State who should protect from yourself who have broadcast it, the rights of the Bulgarian citizens in the Election Code. All this time the Bulgarian Socialist Party did not enter into any agreements and backstage games. We remained in principle in our position to protect the Bulgarian Constitution and protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens! Therefore, when the Election Code drawn up by you is put to the vote again, we will vote against because this Law takes away Bulgarian rights and violates the principles of democracy and the Constitution! Our history and our goal as a party is not to be a one-day party and to exist in politics for ourselves. Our goal is for Bulgaria to be a sovereign, fair, economically active and social state. So if today is the question: where to now? The answer of BSP left Bulgaria is: to early elections! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Mr. Borisov, you didn't make it! You didn't become a united nation! You haven't given our people any security or future! Therefore, in this session, we will propose the alternative to this governance to create an economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Replying, noise and shouting from GERB.]] In 2020 they stop European money and, although late, then you will understand that without our own economy and production we have no future. Therefore, in this session, we will propose through the legislation to return the active role of the state in the economy and to express it in the annulment of all lobbying laws that you have created and with which you feed the companies around the power; the adoption of anti-monopoly laws to limit the large and oligarchs that drain the financial resources of the state and the life forces of the people; to create in the Bulgarian Development Bank a branch network across the country, to capitalise it and to enable it to invest under light conditions, to lend under light conditions small and medium-sized businesses; to create again an investment fund with which the state directly invests in the economy, thereby once again helping small and medium-sized businesses. These measures will lead to additional revenue in the budget, which we can reschedule fairly by restoring the role of the social state. Let us thaw out social payments and attach them to the poverty threshold, not to minimum guaranteed income. Let's tie social payments to the growth of the minimum wage. Stop reforming education and restore the role of municipal and state education! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Stop reforming health care and return to its center not the money, but the man! Stop the pension reform and don't think there again about what money, what deficit, what budget. Think about it if today's pensioners can live with these pensions and can you condemn futures to never live to a pension. And if we still have any sense of statehood and responsibility left, to put as an element of national security three issues, to look for their sustainable and long-term solution: demographic disaster, poverty and corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of government, you are unable to offer Bulgaria a perspective to your people in the future! We've seen what you can do so far. It is time for the other, the different, for the alternative, and it is in the left project for the development of Bulgaria. It is in BSP left Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u19	Thank you, Ms. Nenova. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement of Rights and Freedoms, the President of the Karadayi Group has the floor. We're listening, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the beginning of each parliamentary session of the Forty-third National Assembly of the largest party in the ruling majority, it is declared that it will implement the reforms set out in the Management Programme. Instead, we are witnessing political instability in government, a vivid example of which were submitted resignations yesterday. The behaviour of individuals remaining in government continues to distance the country from political normality. All this leads to the creation of mistrust in society of the way politics are made in the country and raises the question of responsibility. We in the DPS know that at national level the implementation of reforms and national priorities goes through the restoration of normal dialogue between political actors. The lack of common rules for policy making makes the main entity a hostage to unhealthy political ambitions and intrigue, and instead of observing common policies, we witness frank bargaining. These are key conclusions from the majority's behaviour in the parliamentary hall and from the last week before Easter vacation in the adoption of the amendments to the Election Code. The main subject of power becomes a hostage, with which all Bulgarian citizens are taking political racketeering, temporary political projects in the name of the short delay of the total failure of the government. [[Applause from DPS.]] In just a few days the vote became mandatory, although the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says otherwise. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens will not be able to vote regardless of the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which every Bulgarian citizen has all rights and obligations under the basic law, no matter where he is. And although the fundamental rights of the Bulgarian citizens are inalienable, they were severely suppressed by konjunctural parliamentary majorities. The same disregard for the rights of citizens proclaimed in the Constitution is observed in other areas of the law of education; the right to medical services; the right to quality administrative services; the prohibition of discrimination on individual grounds. Among the basic foundations of the Constitution is shown that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights, and these fundamentals must be part of the public consciousness, as well as the integration process, but this applies to a society in which tolerance is a value to which no political incompetence of the strong one is opposed, where tolerance and tolerance do not overlap in order to take increasingly prominent positions in every sphere of public and political life as a dominant language of communication. Both our Constitution and basic international documents, which are mandatory for Bulgaria and documents of the European Union, which are also binding in nature, refer to fundamental values such as human dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity. Through the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, a citizen is placed at the heart of the Union's activities and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, and the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union lays down minimum standards in the rights and freedoms of citizens who have not also been taken into account when adopting amendments to the Election Code. The fundamental rights of citizens are raised in the Supreme Principle in the preamble to the Constitution, and the guarantee by the state is a fundamental constitutional beginning under art. 4, para. 2 of the basic law. Guarantee of rights is a major commitment of the state. The opposite is equivalent to abdication from the democratic order in the country. All rights have fundamental importance for the established constitutional order. To these principled positions of the Constitution and the cited international treaties and acts, we will also repeatedly return and make references in this House, because we will continue to strongly defend them as a democratic and liberal party, and we will also have a very good occasion during this session of the Parliament, as we will mark 25 years from the adoption of the new Constitution of the country. This is an occasion that will give us the right not only to appreciate the rules written, but also to take account of how accepted they are and have become part of the public consciousness. Because a Constitution should not just be adopted by those who have the right to vote for it, but it must be adopted by the whole society and applied including by the National Assembly. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms strongly oppose the attempt to suggest that with the veto of the President of the Republic, problems in the Election Code can be solved. On the contrary, they will not be resolved because the law is read selectively and the veto affects only some of the provisions and not the whole law. [[Single applause from DPS.]] Next, we must point out the untenable statement that the veto is in defence of the Constitution and that the point of politics is to empower citizens. Dear colleagues, the Constitution does not need protection, it needs implementation! No one in the state must forget that all power derives from the people. 1, para. 2 of the Constitution, and we, the MPs empowered by the people, must adopt laws that are in defence of the rights and interests of citizens. We always have this obligation, especially when it comes to rights of citizens who have suffered from a decision of the state. Implementation of the Constitution means the adoption of laws that guarantee the rights proclaimed in the basic law. Dear Members of Parliament, and during this parliamentary session, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will work actively, confidently and consistently in defending the European and Euro-Atlantic path of development, we will support the united efforts to stimulate economic growth and development, as well as all measures ensuring livelihood and the necessary stability in the country. We appeal to work together on the country's main priorities, on which there is a need for consensus of the political forces. But the violation of the Constitution also led to the current crisis of power. We have warned from the moment of the formation of this unnatural coalition, which generates escalating crises instead of stability and security. If, in order to ensure true political stability, it is necessary to go to elections, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are ready to do so. The rest is up to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u21	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u22	Later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u23	After that? Mr. Valeri Simeonov, the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! During the new parliamentary session, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front sets out the following main tasks in its parliamentary activity. First of all, for the going out, until they're out. [[part of the MRF MPs leaving the hall]] The Patriotic Front will continue with its consistent policy for the disappearance of DPS from power and removal of all corrupt and incompetent personnel politically appointed by this harmful party for Bulgaria. [[Private applause by GERB and PF.]] I'm adding as well as the deviant from her depraved freak S.O.T.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u25	Mr. Simeonov, I ask you to be more acceptable to parliamentary terminology.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u26	I'll consider it, Madam President. For the Patriot Front, one of the most serious threats to Bulgaria's prosperity is the division and opposition of Bulgarian citizens on ethnic grounds, as well as the introduction by the mentioned parties of mutual hatred and intolerance. We will fight for the rejection of the president's veto imposed on some of the texts of the votes by a very large majority Election Code. We will defend the protection of national interests and sovereignty against the intervention of foreign countries in the conduct of Bulgarian elections abroad, which manipulate the vote of the Bulgarians and distort election results in the service of external interests. The patriotic front will exercise continuous parliamentary control over the process of building the defence facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey as a main means of limiting the real universal threat of a migratory flood. We declare that the complete completion of the facility in question must be completed by the end of 2016, including the 77km section on the rivers of Rezovska and Tundzha, which is currently being designed. The patriotic front believes that one of the greatest successes of the current government is the signed on 5 May 2016. A readmission treaty with the Republic of Turkey The patriotic front will strongly insist on continuing work on the removal of illegal buildings in ethnic ghettos, in particular the unfinished process of removing them in the village of Marchevo, the municipality of Garmen. Bulgarian society must be convinced that the laws are valid for everyone and especially for ethnics who have turned their rights into abuse of privileges. The main priority of the Patriotic Front will also be the fight against domestic crime, terrorizing small towns and neighborhoods with predominantly ethnic population. The Bulgarian state is still in debt to its citizens in terms of guaranteeing their lives, health and property We consider it urgent the reform of the Ministry of Interior and the strengthening of police presence in places with increased criminogenic situation. The patriotic front will insist on the strengthening of patriotic education in Bulgarian schools, as well as the development of Bulgarian cultural traditions and cultural institutions. We will also defend the increase in the share of Bulgarian music, films and audiovisual works in the public media programmes, as well as commercial electronic media and the limitation of pseudocultural and why not political chalga. The priority of the Patriot Front will continue to be the protection of the rights of our countrymen abroad, who are often subjected to hidden discrimination and repression. The patriotic front will fight for the adoption of legislative measures for better social protection of Bulgarian citizens, but also for limiting the abuse of social aid by low-educated marginals surrounding the Law parasite groups. In the field of health, the Patriot Front will continue to support reforms in the health system aimed at limiting the draining of the Health Insurance Fund through abuse of clinical pathways, medicines and hospital care. We will continue our consistent fight against the racketeering of self-forgotten pseudo-ecologists causing serious damage to tourism and sport in entire regions of our homeland. The patriotic front will support the reform of the armed forces and the strengthening of the fighting capacity of the Bulgarian army, because, as we all know, a nation that does not feed an army feeds a foreign army. The patriotic front will continue active work in parliament in order to recover the Bulgarian energy, as well as the adoption of the submitted Bill for the termination of the long-term contracts with the so-called "American Power Stations" (TPP) "Maritsa East 1" and "Maritsa East 3" which continue to aggravate the already critical state of the National Electricity Company. We will work to strengthen the Commission's control of energy and water regulation, as well as the Agency for State Financial Inspection of renewable power plants, producers of highly efficient electricity, as well as heat efficiency. We will propose new legislative initiatives to stop the energy robbery based on the report of the Temporary Energy Revision Commission, which is published on the website of the National Assembly. The ultimate objective of our activity will be to freeze the price of electricity and even reduce the price of electricity in the Republic of Bulgaria for consumers. For the Patriot front, the interests of Bulgaria, its political stability and economic prosperity will be the ultimate goal. We will continue to place these interests above the personal interests, above party interests and will fight against the use of politics as a means of personal and party benefit, as well as of dividing the nation. As the great Nikolai Haytov used to say: "If we lose Bulgaria, we've lost everything! " - Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of leading Mrs. Tsacheva, which gave you the place to lead, but this does not cancel my obligation to do this procedure, because whoever is chairing the National Assembly meeting should not allow those speaking from this high tribune such a tone. What does the use of such expressions and assessments mean to political entities behind which hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens stand? This means disrespect for parliamentaryism and, most importantly, disrespect for those Bulgarian citizens who have given their trust to these political forces. I will remind the speaker, whose name I will not mention, that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for a year and a half has not been in power and has nothing to disappear from power, but with his actions, to say, with his actions, he, the speechable and political formation, which he heads and whose parliamentary group is co-chair, will mostly lead to the extinction of GERB from power and the scratching of Bulgaria from the democratic map of Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u29	Mr. Tsonev, Mrs. Tsacheva made a note of the previous speaker in the appropriate order and I believe that after her remark he did not use the terms that you mentioned. Thank you. For a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the beginning of this session of the National Assembly, perhaps, the first thing we need to realize is that we have a lot of questions to ask and a lot of answers to. These answers are given by our conduct and words and by the way we vote. Unfortunately, as one Chinese proverb says, we are cursed to live in interesting times. Our country's path in recent years has not been easy due to several circumstances that are beyond us. Now again, our destiny has assigned us to live in a time of severe global geopolitical instability, of political tremors in almost all our neighbours, of a crisis of trust between the members of the European Union itself and of forecasts of a danger of a new global economic stagnation. This situation requires, in our view, a political behaviour that does not correspond to the traditional notions of close party interest. For us the typical maxim of opposition the worse, the better, which, without wanting to hurt anyone, has almost always been important in our country, has become obsolete. I think it is high time, after 26 years of bickering, of party wars, of clashes that exhaust immensely public energy, without contributing particularly to the development of the country or to improve the situation of every Bulgarian citizen, we should take a new path. Analyzing our historical development, we see this way of society in the following: a path to national agreement at least on key issues. I know that to the people who have fallen into politics, to the established party fighters, my speech may sound naive, but naiveness isn't always a bad advisor. The most important question that we all need to answer today is: do we want there to be at least relative peace in Bulgaria? Do we wish this session of the National Assembly not to be a field of interparty struggles because of the upcoming presidential elections? Do we have the will of Parliament to continue its normal work to reach consensus on some topics, as we managed to do when adopting amendments to the Constitution and judicial reform? Maybe today it's okay for all of us in this room to realize that worse than living in a time apart is just living in time separately. National interests are neither left nor right, they have no color and a 4-percent barrier. I know that the ways to achieve national interests are different, depending on the political ideology, but in the end, I think political dialogue is better than teething and which party will receive how much percentage in the presidential elections will not radically change the lives of people who are not staring at politics the way we stare at each other. I think that if we all focus precisely on solving specific problems that directly concern citizens, it would help raise the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament. We need precisely defined efforts to revive the Bulgarian economy and create new and better paid jobs, support young families and exit the state of demographic disaster, effective protection of the fundamental rights of Bulgarian citizens such as the right to life, the right to privacy of property, the right to education, the right to healthcare and, last but not least, the right of every citizen to participate in management through his own voice. Speaking of rights and democracy, the Bulgarian Democratic Center will act responsibly by disobeying its attitude towards possible changes to the Election Code of Close Party Interests, and each of us will have the opportunity to vote freely and in conscience. We believe that it is possible to find a solution that can both protect citizens' rights and national security. As far as others are concerned, in our view, nationwide priorities, we would rather welcome the adoption of the anti-terrorist law, legal decisions to speed up and ease the judiciary, decisions of the National Assembly, which will lead to increased strength and combatability of our armed forces, legal changes to protect Bulgarian farmers and stimulate the tourism industry. It is up to all of us whether our country is going to slide on the brink of a permanent political crisis, or whether we will find the strength to fight political battles, to remember that victories for our entire country are more important than the victories of individual parties. If we look at the world and the world, the declaration of independence of one of the great countries says even that people are entitled to happiness, that is, something too imaginary and personal like happiness can be put as a legal goal by one country. In the finale, allow me to congratulate you on the Day of the Holy Brothers equals Cyril and Methodius and wish you a successful work, health and correct tone between us! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, for your greetings. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, I've been away for a while from the lawsmithy. And now what do I find out while I'm gone? I'm gonna be gone a little bit, and you guys start fighting. [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] You're starting to push the controls. Don't be like that! It's a frivolous act. There are more experienced politicians among you, there are more inexperienced politicians. I'll turn to the more inexperienced ones. I'll turn to those unofficials in politics, which are very combative, very relentless. As long as they keep going, I wish them. But those experienced people that we know, some of them presidents have been, how are you going to pull out the ministers like that? You want to bring down a government that, with so much effort, with so much energy and so much money, was brought to power. Just remember how much money they were throwing at the rags. These were paid agitators, these were Protestants, these were all young, early-awaken, beautiful, smart, intelligent young men with pavement in their hand. All this now to put it behind us, toss it in the wind?! You can't do this! I don't agree, and that's why I got up, I came, although here in this building, honestly, I've been coming with an unpleasant feeling lately, because it's built on a Turkish cemetery, you know, there's a negative energy issue, but I still feel compelled to come and tell you to come to your senses. Don't push the controls, because a lot of money has been thrown for this government, as I said. Just remember, Mr. Soros, how much money did he give, because this guy wouldn't pick it up on the branches, would he? He made them work hard, sweating on their foreheads! [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] You gave so many millions for the Maydan of Sofia, so many commitments, so many protest networks committed, so many vuvuzes, and now this falls to go what, to instability? Just think about it, those who are now pushing the government, the co-managers, well, you started deals, you started government contracts, and now you're gonna leave them halfway, you're gonna dump them, and tomorrow some politically incorrect subject comes to pick them up, pick them up and profit from them?! [[Radio.]] That's not fair, that's not right. [[Laughter]] So, take it easy, get along. I see that's where this is going. You've got to understand, there's one customs for each of you, there's one public contract for each of you. Don't do that! [[(Noise and lines. (Laughter)]] There's plenty for everyone! I see you want to scare the Prime Minister. I saw he wasn't scared, he wasn't pale with fear. The most you can do is make him nervous and send you to early elections because, after all, the guy has nerves. And what happens then?! [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] You put people in charge, you appointed by agencies, by regional government, by ministries. It's called, and the cleaning women you put in, now you're gonna have to fire them, leaving people out of work, whole families falling out. It's not good, it's not fair and it's not fair. Therefore, stay where you are, continue and support this stable and successful management, because you will not be more stable and more successful in helping yourself. So, keep going. Now, what did you fight about? About the Election Code. After all, these electoral sections abroad have never been interested in the Bulgarian authorities. Besides, I've seen a pair of marquee knives like this here. I want to tell them that they are currently strengthening a party like the DPS because they are mobilizing it. If that's the goal, you understand, you have achieved it. What is being said about polling stations abroad, especially in Turkey, because they are the main problem. Well, now they'll be mobilized to one hundred percent if they were now sixty, now to one hundred. No matter how many sections there are, be assured that the elections will take place there from end to end and with full participation. Well, see in the United States, Canada, Spain and other countries of the Old World that might not happen. In addition, I would like to tell you that whoever insults his constituents does not deserve to be a popular chosen one. You can't call the people lumpenny and not react, because here a co-governant has been practicing for the second time to insult and not respond to the Bulgarian voters. I don't know how long they're gonna let her swing, but like I told you, I thought I'd come here and hang out at your feet, even if I waved a golden finger at you. [[Laughter]] To bring your mind to your head and find out that tearing this government down is no use to you. You'll fall out and no one will ever know about you again. [[Laughter, excitement. Noise and lines.]] This is a bad political career and future. GERB will take back the mandates they will take, and you will simply not be in the next parliament. Therefore, stay, finish your work, Bulgaria still has a few more years to finish. Finish it, so after that there will be no need for elections and the Election Code, because, you know, they, the valleys, are appointed by the Sultan, they are not elected. In addition, let me give you one more piece of advice: do not pay attention to any such political provocations. Now someone will come out here and say that Bulgaria was currently at the last place in Europe by income, we were the poorest. What do we do, when were we the richest? That's the way it is, we'll deal with it. There were one and a half million Bulgarians below the poverty line. And that's what you're gonna put up with. The important thing is that you're not in that category, that's what I care about. [[Replications. A round of applause by Ataka. Awesome.]] So, go ahead, go ahead, you have started a case to complete the mandate of Bulgaria and finish it! [[Applause from the "Attacka". Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, there are no speakers. Mr. Zelenogorski on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reforming Block, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to read a declaration on behalf of the MPs from the Reformation bloc supporting the majority. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am particularly thrilled to be making this political address on the day we pay our respects to the work of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius........................ our educators and patrons of Europe. Because when we talk about debt, it's hard to find brighter examples. Since yesterday, the political configuration in the ruling majority is different. The withdrawal of the support by the ABB, along with the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister and Social Minister Mr. Kalfin, by decision of the ABB, for which I would like to say that there have been a lot of positive changes in legislation, although we at the Reformation bloc have been critical of some of the things proposed regarding the changes in pension reform, social policy, but still what happened yesterday is a political maneuver aimed at serving party interest and pre-election regrouping. In it, the commitments made, the word given and the reforms launched were the last most important factor. It is obvious that the ABC, DPS and BSP are approaching and the corridor of a brotherly hug between them is opening up, for which here and now I will predict that no, this compound will not bring your strength, gentlemen! This maneuver shows the behind-the-scenes connection between the BSP Congress and the ABB's objectives. It marks the beginning of a restructuring of the political space, behind which it sees the political account to move towards the centre-left government and destabilization of the country. However, ambition to push the country towards early elections, chaos and instability, just to serve a narrow party interest, has been for years now the fastest way to fail the left. Now, however, both the world and Europe and our neighbours and our region are different and attempts to bring noise into the system are not random or unprepared, as politics has taught us in the last 26 years in our country. What's the use, ladies and gentlemen? However, not to the Bulgarian citizens, not even to your voters! Then whose is it? Doesn't this move serve interests that cannot qualify as national and public? Are there geopolitical reasons for this move, is it part of faking a failure of right-wing power to open a path to chaos? These are the questions to which the public will know the answers before the presidential vote and the questions to which the left counterblock will have to answer. The opening of faults in this environment and under these external and geopolitical circumstances for me is irresponsible, dishonest to voters and is an expression of management infirmity and political adolescence, and which is the most subversive: such faults do not serve national interest. For us MPs from the Reformation bloc supporting the majority, from the very beginning the presence of the ABB in the government was a matter of compromise, but also of proving our political maturity that we can put the state interest above that of the Reformation bloc. It's a matter of duty for us. We've proven that we have the will. And, yes, today we accept your choice. Yes, today the centre-right government with patriotic support can formulate its social policy goals and pursue them without compromises. We had serious considerations, as I said, and disagreements with certain policies of colleagues in the social sphere, in anti-corruption policies and in the election of regulators, in constitutional changes and in a number of other reforms, but in the name of the country's perspective, we managed to prioritize our political tasks so that the programme could be implemented and the differences could be overcome. Dear colleagues, the partnership of the right-wing political family and the responsible part of the political spectrum in this House is yet to develop and deliver results in good governance. It's a capacity we can deploy. The differences about the Election Code will be cleared, anti-corruption measures will be adopted and the fight against smuggling will continue. An environment for e-government and e-voting will be created, judicial reform, child justice reform and legal education will continue. A new criminal policy will be worked out, health and educational reforms will be deepened. There will be strict measures against road intruders, we will work on building the infrastructure, special needs areas will be developed, not only the Northwestern. Energy independence will be achieved and Bulgaria will no longer be bound only by Russian supplies. We will work hard to pass the Anti-Terrorism Act, as well as continue actions to increase revenue collection. We will ensure, as so far, financial stability and better income for people. We will move towards sustainable modernization of the Bulgarian Army, good employment and a fair social model. Have no doubt that for us membership in the European Union and NATO and the path we have chosen will be continued. For us, he is not facing any trials. Colleagues, for everyone in this room who doubts or is active to work against these priorities, I will say: the majority and the government remain and there will be no early elections! We will not drive this country into chaos! We have serious goals and we are moving forward with the management program. Support in Parliament by the centre-right and patriotic majority, and fellow MPs who believe that these are the important objectives that we aim for, is sufficient to prevent the country from falling into another suffering centre-left timeless and not to allow a course other than European and pro-atlantic. Colleagues, take your seats on the right side! As of today, it's a matter of duty. In the finale: bow before the patrons of Europe St. St. Cyril and Methodius! Let their cosmopolitanity, knowledge and duty to Bulgaria guide us! Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. We move on to the National Assembly's Work Programme. Point one... [[BSP LB.]] Please don't take the attitude without being given the word, Mr. Bozhinoff! We move to point one of our accepted weekly program: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR ELECTRONIC IDENTIFICATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote on January 14th In accordance with The Vice-President of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Mr. Rumen Ivanov will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u37	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u38	First, I would like to make a proposal on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2, p. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for admission in plenary under this Draft of the representative of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Deputy Minister Valeri Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u39	Before that, I would like to ask the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio to be switched off, as we agreed to include them only during group declarations. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's procedural proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport and Information Technology. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Deputy Minister Borisov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u40	The e-Identifying service. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u41	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u43	Statements? I won't. Voting regime on the text of the name of Chapter One. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u45	Statements? I won't. Vote regime for art. 1 supported by the importer. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u46	Under art. 2 has a proposal from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov and Dimitar Tanev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, para. A third sentence shall be created: The identification of the person with an electronic identifier shall only be carried out under the rules of that law and its implementing acts. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: E-mail address of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of Art. 2. (1) The electronic identifier shall be a unique identifier of a natural person for which an electronic identity certificate has been issued. (2) The right to an electronic identifier shall have Bulgarian citizens and foreigners who have a single civil number, respectively a personal number of a foreigner. (3) On the basis of the electronic identifier, a unique distinction may be made between one person and another person in the virtual environment in order to ensure access to information systems or to enable electronic statements to be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that after the emotional part of today we can return to the positive agenda again. Just before the vacation, we adopted the Election Code, which, as you know, generates some tension in society, but the place where there is absolutely no tension and where people are somewhat satisfied with us, this is the part about the electronic vote. Indeed, there, the texts we have adopted are the best possible and make it possible to build an effective electronic vote by the highest standards as secure as possible. The complexity of today's Law is that it is also closely related to e-voting the way we will identify online is extremely crucial, once in electronic voting, once in our interactions with all kinds of administrative services with the state. So it is extremely important that we adopt the texts in the way that we have put them on the Commission proposals, with the important agreement that, when the time comes, we will also adopt in the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act the things that we agreed in the Internal Commission, as it is all like a clock mechanism and a piece to change or be different, it is possible to compromise even the already adopted proposals of the Election Code in its part with the electronic vote. The electronic identifier must be made publicly available, each citizen must have access to it, have an electronic identifier and be at an affordable price. This is the only way in which we can protect citizens from identity theft and any other manipulation. When the time comes, I'll tell you about sector identifiers as well. It is extremely important, but please just support the proposals so, because they are part of a more complex ensemble of legislative initiatives, and logic is such that we must fully accept things in order to have a really well-functioning and identification, and electronic governance, and electronic voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Trenchev, I understand your desire to bind the adoption of the Law on Electronic Identification with a future intention for electronic voting. However, let us look at what is the practice in European countries, what is the practice in the world in terms of electronic voting. There is only one country and this is Estonia. No other country in the European Union shall apply an electronic vote. It is not appropriate for you to bind the adoption of the texts of this Law to future intentions, because the secret of the vote is by mail, sending a letter that guarantees the secret of the vote, but there is no practice of e-voting in other countries, because there is no protection for the secret of the vote, and for the way it has been voted, and that is what you are trying to suggest that the most secure and accessible way is the electronic vote. Even more so, you are trying to speculate and that receiving the electronic identifier will be cheap. No, it will not be cheap and will be at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens, for the money of every household. With your management you have brought less money into the people and with indirect taxes you have increased the tax burden. With the adoption of this type of law [[speaking indistinctly]] because it is not only the increased wine, but also with this Law that one thing will be achieved. [[GERB lines.]] Money will be taken from Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u51	Let's go back to suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A hole? People's representative Antony Trenchev come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Iankov, thank you for your confidence that you are talking about my management. I will bear in mind that for everything, good and bad, happening in the country, personally, I am responsible. What has become clear from your statement is that the BSP does not want an electronic vote. It is clear why.. because manipulations from familiar practices so far over the years will not be possible. Thank God this is not up to you, but the will of nearly two million Bulgarians. It is already a fact, proposals have been adopted.. there will be an e-vote. With regard to security, what you said, how safe it was to vote in the mail, I will not pay attention to this absurdity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u54	You don't know what you're talking about, do you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u55	Don't call, please! I'll just say that the electronic identifier will be on the ID card and as a result its price will not change. So it's absolutely untenable the things you've said from here on out. The fact that something is not happening somewhere is absolutely no argument, why shouldn't it happen in Bulgaria? I understand that there is no e-vote in your management benchmark. There are a number of other things I don't recommend to our country. From this point of view, believe me, e-voting is a really good decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Another statement? Please come in for a statement, Mr. Yankov, we are debating art. 2 of the Law on Electronic Identification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This Law suggests that every Bulgarian citizen should have electronic identification and the Minister of Interior, when defending the proposed texts, could not explain exactly what would happen after the adoption of the texts and the Law itself. There are different practices in different countries. In Spain, the electronic identification of individuals is accompanied by the identification documents. In Austria, there is a separate electronic identification, the so-called citizens' card, which enables every citizen to take advantage of the electronic services provided by the administration, at regional level or to the state. This Law has many shortcomings. We have expressed our reservations, so as a parliamentary group we abstain and are against the texts, precisely in the part about the unclear future that follows from the adoption of the texts. What exactly is foreseen? There will be an electronic identification Bulgarian citizen, but what exactly will it provide as an opportunity is not clear. Otherwise, the electronic identifier itself essentially allows for the relief of the efforts made by every Bulgarian citizen by accepting electronic identification and non-service of the citizens purely physically, and through the opportunities that this electronic identification has, you will see that there will be no effect after the adoption of this Law. Otherwise, I understand the enthusiasm of fellow Members who provide, by adopting electronic identification, that we also get an electronic vote. I pay attention to you, fellow Members, until now there is no guaranteed protection in such a vote, there is no possibility to guarantee either the secret of the vote or to avoid manipulation in the coverage of the vote of the citizens. If individual sectoral identifications of individuals are also envisaged, then the danger that Bulgarian citizens who benefit from this electronic identification have different identifications for the different sectors will lead to what? Let us think of unification of this identification so that it can be used both for the electronic services provided by the state and municipalities and for passing, for example, through a customs office, as well as in the health system, in social systems. No, by adopting the Law on Electronic Identification, to deceive people that we are already in the future as you draw as dreams. What will happen with the adoption of specific texts will not ease the work of either the administration or the individual systems, but we will simply have a paper law that will enable you to take advantage of the issuance of such identification, and later in other texts it will become clear how you foresee it. This justification of yours that it will not cost more to Bulgarian citizens, in just a year's time people will be convinced that this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. A line? First, Mr. Ivanov, then a second line from the MP Petar Slavov. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iankov, I thought a lot about making a reply to you, because your speech was generally... such as for the adoption of the Law at first reading and not for the specific text. You said in the Commission that Minister Bachvarova failed to convince us that we were on the same Commission and because I am convinced that she convinced us, so I take the line. First, you comment that the identifier will only be in the ID card. That's not true. The electronic identifier may be embedded both in a debit card and a mobile device depending on the citizens' wishes. It was clearly explained that the integration of the electronic identifier into the ID card will not cost the issuance of the Bulgarian identity documents, in particular................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I see no point in these infertile comments and attacks on the Law. I will not ask you if you have an electronic signature because many intelligent Bulgarian citizens use an electronic signature and the electronic identifier is an improvement of the electronic signature. So let's not scare people off for imposing something on them. It's their choice, and if they judge you, they'll choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The second line is the People's Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, I want to tell you that this is 2016. It's not 1944 or 1989. We're in 2016, we're in the age of information technology, and it really amazes me what I heard here telling us. I don't know how to comment on it. Take the last tax campaign supposed nearly one third of Bulgarian citizens have submitted their tax return electronically. Look at the census, which was done a long time ago, how many people counted electronically. Let us not comment on the referendum that was held about the e-voting how many people, nearly 2 million Bulgarian citizens, said they want to vote electronically. Why do you practically want to limit them in this opportunity, when, without costing them anything additional, they will be given the opportunity for electronic identification, to have it in their ID cards, to be able at any time in the way that it is now being done with an electronic signature, to identify their identity in the electronic vote, whether before the administration, before the municipal authorities and so on? That is, time to spare them, and effort, and hanging in the queues, all these things from the past to remain in the past. Let's behave modernly, modernly, think of modern Bulgaria as part of modern Europe, where e-government is something so natural.................... we have been behind long ago and we have a lot to catch up on. I really don't see why you should mind. We know you're against remote electronic voting, but this bill is not just about that. As I told you, it concerns many other things that Bulgarian citizens will receive as an opportunity through this electronic identification, which they will have in their ID cards. Nothing further will cost them, but will open the doors to a number of establishments that may have remained closed in the past. I urge you to consider supporting this bill. It is really important and useful for the Bulgarian citizens. It helps for a modern Bulgaria for the modern development of the country. Besides, the convention is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u62	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Iankov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, remember exactly what happened in the Commission. I myself in my speech for those who did not have the opportunity to hear Minister Bachvarova explained: it is not clear whether the electronic identification will be in the identity card or in a separate medium. And you just listen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u64	It's a matter of choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u65	And the fact that you insult the Bulgarian citizens that only part of the intelligent people had an electronic signature is not intelligent in your opinion. But I certainly don't accept that, Mr. Slavov, you accuse me and my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and that we are against electronic identification. We are opposed to the way you introduce it, and by this Law. In the following texts, we will have the opportunity to argue exactly what we are opposed to. But it's not just about IDs, as you think. Electronic voting is not the subject of today's Law. If you believe that with the adoption of the specific text and the texts of the Law you will have reason to declare that in the future you will relieve the Bulgarian citizens, people will still understand this lie, as there will be no great relief as there is in other countries. Electronic identification shall be universal. I have pointed out to you that you provide different identifications for the different sectors, for the different services. And it is not correct to compare with what is done electronically, such as the submission of information. With electronic identification it is bets that Bulgarian citizens can use services and establish to whom exactly this service is provided. I don't see any reason for the lines you gave me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u66	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Antony Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs as an addition in art. 2, para. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 16 against 5, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2, with the same support from the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. Mr. Ivanov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u67	Under art. 3 there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 words the order under art. The law should be replaced by the Rules on Law Enforcement and everywhere in the other texts of the Law to replace it with the Rules on Law Enforcement. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: E-Identification of an electronic identity Art. 3. The electronic identity certificate is a formalised official electronic document submitted by means of a generally accepted standard issued with a specified period of validity and containing an electronic identifier and other data specified by the law enforcement rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u68	Statements? Mr. Yankov, come in. As you come to the stand, to Deputy Minister Borisov, if you wish, by raising your hand you can take the floor. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Here is the first reason by which we abstain and are against the specific texts in the proposed Bill. It's also for my colleagues who just replicated me. There is no specific text in the Law with a decision of us the MPs, those we are chosen by the people, and the regulation is proposed and everything that will result from this electronic identification, and the way in which every citizen will have an electronic identifier, to be with the rules laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. Colleagues, what exactly do we accept, and what text do we accept? Something we don't know! This was also a reason for making it clear to the importer, once these texts were proposed, what rules were envisaged. You yourselves understand that you could, with two members in this Law of Electronic Identification, regulate the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Interior to issue regulations and regulations for electronic identification and to have an adopted law. I ask some of the importers, since there is also a Deputy Minister in the Chamber, to explain, or at least to make a commitment, what is envisaged in these Rules. If he knows, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Another statement? Do you want the word, I don't understand? It's only your wish. Yes, you do. Here you go. Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Valeri Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! I thought this technology draft law would not cause such sharp political debates in this House, but at the end of the day, we obviously have to go through with it. I would like to assure you, Mr. Iankov, and all MPs who will support this draft law, that the Rules, which are intended to be drawn up in the Draft Law on Electronic Identification, will define all the technical standards to which the electronic identifier carrier must comply. For example, I do not say ID, because the ID card is absolutely deliberately not intended to be the only carrier of the electronic identifier. As Mr. Ivanov mentioned, a carrier of the electronic identifier may even be your smartphone or flash drive on which your electronic signature or bank card is recorded. All these devices shall comply with the strict technical requirements so that the electronic identifier is recorded on them. As far as I am aware, it is not a good legislative practice in law to record technical specifications. Why? Because tomorrow, when technology develops, I'm literally saying tomorrow in two, three, six months, we're going to change the Law to do it in accordance with the new higher technical standards, or this thing could become faster and more elegant in one Rule of Law Implementation. This was one of the main arguments of the group, which worked on the draft law to remove all technical details from the Law and to be included in the Rules for Law Enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 3 supported by the importer and the Commission with the corresponding version. They voted 86 MPs: 75, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to art. 4 "Secret electronic identifiers." Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u73	Under art. 4 there is a proposal made by the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov and Dimitar Tanev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. "Secret electronic identifiers' Art. 4. (1) In certain sectors of government, natural persons may be identified through sectoral electronic identifiers. (2) Sectoral electronic identifier has been converted through cryptographic algorithms an electronic identifier obtained in the electronic identification process. (3) Sectoral electronic identifiers may be used to identify natural persons only in sectors where the public authorities provide citizens with the possibility to exercise rights electronically or to perform electronic services where no data are collected for nationals from other bodies and persons outside the sector. (4) Sectoral electronic identifier shall not be converted into an electronic identifier. (5) Sectors in which sectoral electronic identifiers are used shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, agreed with the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. (6) Sectoral electronic identifiers may also be established by private entities to identify individuals in their relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u74	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Raynov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I would rather not make a statement than ask one question. Are these sectoral identifiers linked to the so-called "authentifier" in healthcare that has been rolling around for several months? And how will the reference be... How are things going to be? Somehow we don't know what will remain a sector identifier or authenticator in health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u76	Are there any lines to Mr. Raynov's statement? I won't. To make a statement, the people representative Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Sectoral identifiers are extremely important is going to take a little bit of time to tell you why. At one time, when it is very dangerous what we share on social networks, via our mobile phones, or through whatever other medium we choose, it is extremely important what we share and when interacting with the state administration. The sector identifier generally enables you to provide a certain type of information to the designated authority. I'll give you an example: if you go to the IRS and identify yourself as you, with your chip, with your pin code you want to give the tax information only in terms of what you owe as taxes. You don't want them to see your health status, what you were sick of, what your doctor prescribed and so on. The other way around when you go to the hospital, you don't want the guy at the hospital to see what taxes you owe. This is a very key division... which kind of information can see what kind of information you have. It is extremely important to make these sectoral identifiers so as to limit access to the various institutions, what part of our electronic identity can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. A line? I won't. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! How many electronic identifications will the Bulgarian citizen have? It's not clear. I respect the lyrics that are, to put it mildly, disturbing and bizarre. According to Al. 1 in certain sectors of government natural persons can be identified through sectoral electronic identifiers. In para. 6 Sectoral and electronic identifiers may also be identified by entities of interest. What are you trying to impose by this Law? Electronic identification which can be used for information from private entities on the provision of public government services, government sectors. What exactly will be the electronic identification in healthcare? Can anyone answer the question of Dr. Raynov? Because in the public domain and from your minister, we hear a demand for a fingerprint. Is there going to be a fingerprint in the electronic identification for the sector? And if that happens on which finger? [[Noise and lines.]] And will this finger be excluded from the Code of Criminal Procedure, the fingerprint, in a crime investigation? Because this information, honourable Members, is intended to be established by these texts by private entities. The disadvantages of the texts proposed are many and these are the objections we have from the BSP. It is good to have a clean model of electronic identification as the Bulgarian citizens can use for all sectors: both to the customs authorities and to the tax authorities, and to the health authorities, and to services from all state administrations. What are you guys trying to do? Different electronic identifications and personal document with such identification, and the civil card, and the electronic medium, and the flash drive, and the document... You understand yourself that what you're suggesting doesn't sound serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. First line please, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I was forced to take Mr. Yankov's cue first because of the untruths he spoke. Mr. Iankov, there never existed in any way the notion of finger print. There is the notion of a If you don't understand it, I'm willing to take the time to explain the difference between a biometric identifier and a fingerprint. We can also enter the depths of the dactiloscopy, if you're interested, but for you these are difficult concepts to understand probably. In addition, I can see that you yourself, by asking the question, are difficult to explain certain concepts, such as that private entity, but to make it clear to you that, after all, in the field of public relations, there is also the so-called additional voluntary provision that is carried out by individuals and citizens who are insured, citizens who are, for example, carrying out health insurance, should be perfectly normal to be able to be identified electronically by such individuals, but you are naturally not aware of this. It is clearer to explain how social it is and how much it thinks about poor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u82	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u83	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Iankov. All the examples you have set out for possible carriers of the electronic identifier, the way you did it, gives the impression almost that we will oblige Bulgarian citizens to do one thing or another that is not the case. We give different options, different opportunities each to choose what is convenient for him, the way he is comfortable interacting with the state. And there is absolutely no mandatory element here. The idea of sectoral identifiers is, as I said once, I'll obviously have to repeat, you divide your identity online so that when you interact with a certain body, it sees the information it needs. When you go to the doctor, he doesn't need to see your tax liabilities. This is the goal and these are the different options. Everyone will be able to choose what they need. Given the overall trend of pricing of electronic identifiers, it is so negligible that it would not really be detrimental to citizens to issue one identifier. The bank institution re-issues you a fee card on average for about 5 levs, provided that there is some profit in this, so it is really very, very cheap to make these identifiers, separate by sector and is a good investment, as this helps to protect your identity in a way that you think should happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u84	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u85	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Bajraktarov, do not divert the attention of Bulgarian citizens. It's about biometric data, but people realize it's about the fingerprint that's from their finger. This is what Minister Moskov wants, which you support, which has created such chaos in the health system, that even with this Law you are helping him to make this chaos even greater. Otherwise, in terms of the price, honourable Members, dear Mr. Trenchev, will become clear after a decision of the Council of Ministers. It is not clear from these texts that have been proposed. It is at stake for the Council of Ministers to decide how much this will cost people and to explain and to give an example with existing bank cards I think that the protection of this electronic identification, of the data of each individual who will be, must be at a very high level and for the relief of people. Doubts about you are that way. Therefore, in the debate on electronic identification, we have reached an electronic vote, we have come to a database of individuals because people are worried. They are worried, Mr. Bajraktarov, precisely from these biometrics, from this fingerprint, that when it is in a database, even in healthcare, there must be a change in the Criminal Code to exclude this fingerprint from the Criminal Code from appearing at any crime. Do you know why? Such is your trust in the way the institutions work with your governance. And you have to ensure that this does not happen in order to keep the people who have chosen us calm. And I protect and express their concerns.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u86	Any other MPs? To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to say that the Patriot Front Group will support this text, as it is meaningful, it is necessary. Moreover, after trying to explain to the three, led by Iankov and colleague Antony Trenchev, there seems to be a huge misunderstanding and once again there is a reason for creating deliberate, targeted public influences. To explain some things to Iankov, I took this opportunity to speak. Mr. Iankov, after your fierce attempts to organize political protests in the field of health on these issues and attempts to mislead that almost every Bulgarian citizen will become a criminal because of the use of a possible biometric identifier, I have bothered to request a reference from the National Revenue Agency. After this reference became public, the protests in the healthcare sector disappeared sharply. It's just information. If you're very interested, I can give you the reference. It's very interesting. To deceive people that a biometric identifier is a bad thing means to go out and explain to every Bulgarian citizen who takes out his identity card, how this same citizen, including you, and I, and each one of those present, has given a scanned copy of his biometric identifier. I mean, this database has been around for a long time. Moreover, you will have to explain which finger you will vote with in Parliament, because this same system of biometric identification has been introduced in the Bulgarian Parliament. Nice or bad it works, it's public among other things, the transcripts of the vote are also public. I ask myself, what are you really up against? Against publicity, against the possibility of controlling each other and saving time and resources as soon as possible, or just about the opposite of returning to the 18th century, when it was explained to people that the railway is a fire horse, which is very scary and dangerous, that electricity is something that will destroy the world, and so on. In fact, you're promoting this and it doesn't honor you! I apologize, not the millionaire party, and the multimillionaire party is obviously going to try to explain how poor she is to the poor socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u88	- What's the line? There are no lines. It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, in your attempt to defend the status quo of the current format, you are most likely expressing the position for these biometric data in healthcare. Let's be clear to the public. And for the concerns of the people, I can give you advice: ask Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, when he was investigated, whether he gave his biometric data and for what reasons he did not agree. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u90	The answer is clear with regard to the legal framework in force. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 76 MPs: for 73, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u91	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Law Enforcement Ruler Art. 5. The requirements for issuing and managing the electronic identity certificate, algorithms and methods for creating electronic and sectoral electronic identifiers, as well as the conditions and procedures for the registration of the persons under art. 8, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 9, para. 2 shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law adopted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u92	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 5 under its name in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u93	"Chapter 2................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: E-Identification Title Art. 6. The holder of an electronic identity shall be a natural person aged 14 years and at which an electronic identity certificate has been issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u94	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I think there's been a technical error, and if there's no technical error, I'm going to ask for some clarification about the age of 14 years. Purely legal, 14-year-olds are incapable. The introduction of the ability of non-able persons to hold such an identifier is no longer very useful. I propose that the number 14 be replaced by the number 16. Sixteen-year-olds are people who are already entitled to access to the labour market, under certain conditions they also have the right to marry, so it is normal there, but 14 years of age is not very good, honourable Members. If there's any other logic that we've missed, it'd be good to hear it. If you can convince us, I'll withdraw my offer. At this point, I am making this editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u96	On behalf of the importer, clarification of the question asked. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the preparation of the Draft Law, we discussed in the working group the age at which it is good to start issuing the electronic identifier. The only argument to support the age of 14 years is that this is the issue of the ID card. This is the only thing we have had in mind the possibility of a 14-year-old person for the first time to receive an identity card and the associated opportunity to obtain an electronic identifier. You're asking for the argument, that's all. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u98	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's editorial proposal instead of the age of 14 and to the age of 16. They voted 76 MPs: 19 against 4, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Two, fully supported by the importer, and art. 6 by its name in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 69, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u100	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, 30 minutes off. We'll continue at 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u101	Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. I would like to ask the Quaestors and the group leaders to invite the MPs to the House to continue our work. Let's continue with art. 8: "Administrator of electronic identity."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u102	Under art. 8 there is a proposal made by the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Boyka Marinska, Nayden Zenogorski, Dimitar Tanev, Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Shishkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 the following text shall be added at the end: As controllers of electronic identity can be registered: 1. State offices or state enterprises under art. 61-62 of the Commercial Act for the issuance and administration of electronic identifiers; 2. the faces on t. 1 and other natural or legal persons to issue and administer sectoral electronic identifiers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. "E-Identification Administrators' Art. 8. (1) In carrying out his activities in issuing electronic identity certificates the Minister of Interior may be assisted by administrators of electronic identity entered in the register under art. 10. (2) When issuing electronic identity certificates to Bulgarian nationals residing abroad, the Minister of Interior shall also be assisted by the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this case, the technological and organisational collateralisation to carry out the activity shall be provided by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in agreement with the Minister of Interior. (3) The activities of the administrator of electronic identity under para. 1 and the representations under para. 2 includes: 1. acceptance of written applications by natural persons for issuance of electronic identity certificates; 2. identification of the applicant by checking the submitted identity document; 3. electronic verification by secure data exchange session to the electronic identification authority for the validity of the submitted identity document and further identification of the applicant through the electronic identification authority sent; 4. sending by electronic means to the electronic identification authority of applications for issuing certificates; 5. a statement to the electronic identification authority of changes in the data on the basis of which the certificate was issued and of suspension, renewal and termination of certificates; 6. customization of electronic identity certificates by recording on electronic media. (4) The administrator of electronic identity shall keep the documents relating to the activities under para. 3 for 20 years
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u103	Statements? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Ministry of Home Affairs may be assisted by e-personalisation administrators entered in the register under art. 10. "This is written in the text referred to in Article 10. 8. Until now, the Ministry of Interior has provided this administrative service. What's it gonna be? Relieved the work of the Minister of Interior and the Ministry?! The commitment to the Bulgarian citizens for this administrative service is transferred to the administrators of electronic identity, which will be selected by the Minister of Interior. Doesn't that look like a prerequisite for corruption to you? It is not clear by what rules, what criteria will be met by these administrators.. We will understand after the adoption of the Rules of Procedure to the Law. Who can guarantee that these administrators will not be individually designated by the Political Party GERB? This electronic identification is bet for the next 10-15-20 years. 4: The administrator of electronic identity shall keep the documents relating to the activity under para. 3 for a period of 20 years. What are you guys trying to do? Tomorrow, when you are not in power, do you have designated administrators for the next 10 20 years to serve your interest?! This is the key to the proposal in this Law. Administrators of this identity, identified individually by the Interior Minister, who will have a database of all who request such identity. How will you ensure that this database will not be used indecently, honourable colleagues, importers? Why is there no representative of the Ministry of Interior answering these questions today in the discussion? Because the functions of the Minister, after the adoption of this Law, are extremely many and the responsibility is in the hands of Bachvarova. We know how she was chosen, we know who she was named by. With these texts he sees Boyko Borisov's desire to have a mechanism and opportunity for influence after falling out of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u105	He won't fall out of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u106	What we are about to adopt, honourable Members, is a clear relief of the administration's work and whether the service from these administrators will be correct, it will be adequate I repeat, there are opportunities for corruption! How will you answer these questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Iankov. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are at the second reading of a review of the Law and perhaps painting apocalyptic insecure paintings is something abstract, and I would ask you to focus on the subject. Is there a duplicate on Mr. Iankov's statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Antony Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs to add to art. 8, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 2, not supported by the Commission. Voting mode. They voted 92 MPs: 18, against 2, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 8 which is supported by the importer with the corresponding version. They voted 93 MPs: 82 against 11, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to observe the Rules of the National Assembly and not to take advantage of the fact that you are standing in the chair. You have essentially made a replica of my speech and have not given me the opportunity to have the procedure according to the Rules of Procedure, as you have only made a comment. However, the specific texts we are discussing suggest that you are addicted to exactly those texts that regulate outsourcing and selecting administrators of this service with the comment you made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u109	Thank you. I will bear in mind your remark and remark on further management of the sitting. Mr. Ivanov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u110	Under art. 9 there is a proposal made by the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov and Dimitar Tanev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. "E-Identification Center" Art. 9. (1) The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall establish an electronic identification centre which shall meet the requirements of art. 11, p. 1-3. The Centre has the status of directorate at the Ministry. (2) The functions of an electronic identification centre may also be performed by other persons entered in the register under art. 10. (3) The electronic identification centres shall carry out automated verification of electronic identity in accordance with this Law and may keep records of the credentials referred to in Chapter Six. (4) The services provided by the centres under para. 1 and 2 may be retributable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 9, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. They voted 99 MPs: 83 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u112	"Chapter Three." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u113	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put the name of Chapter Three to the vote. Vote 94 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u114	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: "Public Register" Art. 10. (1) The Ministry of Interior shall establish and maintain a public electronic register of the administrators of electronic identity and of the electronic identification centres under art. 9, para. 2. (2) In the register under para. 1 separate sections shall include the persons applying for an electronic identity administrator and an electronic identification centre, as well as the number and type of documents attached to the application, the changes in activity and the enforcement administrative measures applied under art. 43, para. 1, t. 2. (3) The procedures for keeping the register shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) Access to the register under para. 1 is free, free, including online in machine readable format.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u115	Statements under art. Ten? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 10, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. Vote 97 MPs: 82, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u116	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: "Registering requirements" Art. 11. In the register under art. 10, para. 1 shall be entered a person who: "1." has qualified staff; 2. have technical equipment and technologies to ensure the reliable provision of services and the security of information; 3. meet the security requirements under Article 3. 14; 4. maintain available funds or insurance of an amount determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law, which covers the liability for the damage caused to the owner of the electronic identity and to all third parties by failure to comply with his obligations under that Law; 5. is not deprived of the right to conduct business, is not in a liquidation or open insolvency proceedings or any other similar procedure under the registration legislation; 6. has not been placed under an emergency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u117	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 11, supported in principle by the Commission, with the corresponding version. Vote 96 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u118	Article 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: "Requirements regarding staff Art. 12. (1) Electronic identity administrators, the electronic identification centres respectively, shall be obliged to have qualified persons who, at any time in the course of their activity, ensure that their duties are fulfilled. (2) The requirements for the qualification and reliability of the persons under para. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u119	Are there any statements on this text? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 12, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 97 MPs: 86, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u120	Article 13. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: "Requirements regarding technical equipment and technology Art. 13. (1) Electronic identity administrators, the electronic identification centres respectively shall ensure and apply procedures and methods for the administration and management of the security of the infrastructure used in accordance with standards of information security management generally accepted in international practice. (2) The reliability of the systems used and the technical security of the processes they carry out shall be considered provided when the equipment and technology has been successfully tested and inspected. (3) The requirements for the methods of assessment of the security of the systems used shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) The persons under para. 1 are required to keep records of the current state of the technical equipment and technologies used by them. (5) Failure to fulfil the obligation under para. 4 is considered a breach of security requirements. (6) The persons under para. 1 use technical equipment and technologies to declare the issuance and management, respectively, for the verification of electronic identity certificates which comply with the requirements laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (7) The administrator of electronic identity shall be obliged to use only secure personalization devices which meet the requirements laid down by the Law Implementation Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u121	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 13 by importer in the relevant version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 85, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u122	Article 14. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: "Secretary requirements" Art. 14. (1) Electronic identity administrators, the electronic identification centres respectively shall establish and maintain internal security procedures under which they carry out their activities. (2) The security procedures shall comply with the requirements for the management of information security laid down by the rules for implementing the law. (3) The security procedures shall reflect the conformity of the persons under para. 1 with the requirements of the law, as well as the reliability and security of their activities. (4) Security procedures shall contain at least: 1. risk assessment; 2. management security measures; 3. information security measures; 4. available funds or insurance; 5. requirements for staff reliability; 6. measures to ensure protection and to limit access to individual devices and premises; 7. measures to ensure protection against unauthorised access to information systems; 8. measures to ensure protection against unauthorised changes; 9. an action plan for events constituting force majeure and in the event of subsequent recovery of the activity. (5) Security procedures shall not be public. Only the Minister of Interior and the persons referred to in Article have access to them. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u123	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 14, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 92 MPs: 78, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u124	Article 15. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: supplier of registration Art. 15. (1) The procedure for registration shall begin with an application to the Minister of Interior on a model laid down by the Rules for Implementation of the Law. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply: 1. evidence of available funds or insurance contract; 2. evidence of compliance with the requirements for personnel under art. 12; 3. evidence of compliance with the requirements for technical equipment and technology under art. 13 (Compliance reports, description of equipment, technological processes, etc.)) 4. evidence of compliance with the security requirements under art. 14. (3) In the case of incompleteness or irregularness of the documents submitted under para. 2 or if no examination fee is paid, the Minister of Interior shall, within 14 days of the submission of the application, notify the person in writing and give time for the removal of deficiencies or irregularities. (4) Within 14 days of the submission of the application or from the removal of incompleteness or irregularities under para. 3, the Minister of Interior or officials authorised by him shall enter into the register of art. 10 persons meeting the requirements of art. 11 and applied the documents under para. 2. (5) The Minister of Interior shall be motivated to refuse registration of a person who does not meet any of the requirements of art. 11 or has not submitted the documents under para. 2 in the term under para. 3. (6) Refusal under para. 5 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u125	Are there any statements under art. 15 of the bill under consideration? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 15, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 98 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u126	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the political party parliamentary group GERB, I want a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u127	I'm giving you 25 minutes off until 1:00 p.m. sharp. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u128	An hour has to pass. It hasn't been an hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u129	It's been an hour. [[Heckling]] It's been over since 11:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u130	I'll see you at 12:00. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u131	Mr President, please read the Rules of Procedure in the manner in which rest is given and how long after a break, after the beginning of a meeting or before its interruption, you may be asked to rest, and then take a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u132	We will immediately consult the Rules of Procedure. Just a minute. A little patience. On the basis of art. 61, para. 2 sentence last I do not allow such a request for rest, so we continue to examine the bill. Mr. Rumen Ivanov continues to report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u133	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Abort registration Art. 17. (1) The Minister of Interior or an official authorised by him shall terminate the registration by order: 1. at the written request of the registered person; 2. in the event of death - at the request of his heirs or by official means; 3. in the event of the opening of a procedure for liquidation or insolvency, or of another procedure for the termination of the legal person on the application of the person representing or acting in office; 4. upon termination of the activity of the sole trader or the legal person, on his application or official request; 5. in the event of the imposition of an authorisation, either on application of the guardian or guardian of the person or on behalf of the person; 6. where the activity for which registration has been issued has not been carried out within one year. (2) Except in the cases under para. 1 The Minister of Interior or an official authorised by him shall terminate the registration by order if the registered person: 1. has submitted incorrect data or false documents which have served as grounds for registration; 2. when carrying out its activities under this law it has issued a false document where it is established by judicial order; 3. systematically violate this law or implementing acts; 4. Stop meeting the requirements of art. 11 and within a period set by the Minister of Interior did not remove the irregularness. (3) A person with terminated registration may not apply for registration for the same activity within two years of the entry into force of the orders under para. 1 and 2. (4) The orders under para. 1 and 2 are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The termination of the registration and the basis for this shall be entered in the register of art. 10, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u134	Are there any statements under art. 16 and 17? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 16 and 17, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u135	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u136	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 18 and the name of Chapter Four. Vote 82 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u137	Under art. 19 there is a proposal of the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov and Dimitar Tanev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19 the word "Publishing" is replaced by "Intakes." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: "Register of electronic identity certificates and electronic identifiers' Art. 19. (1) The Ministry of Interior shall establish and maintain: 1. electronic register of electronic identity certificates issued and terminated; 2. an electronic register of electronic identifiers, their holders and the relevant electronic identity certificates. (2) The order of keeping, storing and accessing the registers under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u138	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Antony Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs for change in art. 19 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 17 against 3, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 19, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 89 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u139	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: "Signature of certificate" Art. 20. (1) The Minister of Interior shall issue an electronic identity certificate upon written application to a person under art. 6. The application may also be submitted through an administrator of electronic identity or diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) An electronic identity certificate shall be issued if the person has appeared in person under para. 1 and submitted a valid identification document. Outside of the cases under para. 1 sentence two, the places of appearance shall be determined by the Minister of Interior. (3) A certificate of electronic identity of a minor or a person placed under an authorisation shall be issued if the requirements of para. 2 and: 1. the application is also signed by a parent, an appropriate guardian or guardian of the person; 2. the parent, respectively the guardian or guardian has appeared personally and has submitted a valid identification document. (4) The Minister of Interior shall enable the administrator to verify the validity of the presented identity document under para. Two and three. The administrator shall verify the validity of the identity document before submitting an application for an electronic identity certificate. (5) The electronic identity certificate shall be issued with a period of validity of 5 years. (6) The certificate shall be recorded only on an electronic medium which complies with the requirements laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (7) The certificate shall be entered in the register of electronic identity certificates. (8) The holder of the certificate shall be personally transferred to the holder of the certificate and, exceptionally, to the person in charge, after presenting a notarized explicit power of attorney. (9) One person may request the issuance of more than one electronic identity certificate. (10) Where the application for issuance of a certificate is submitted through an administrator of electronic identity, the relationship between it and the person under art. 6 shall be settled by contract. (11) Outside the cases under para. 10, for the issue of an electronic identity certificate, the person referred to in art. 6 owes a fee determined by the tariff under art. 18.........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u140	Statements? People's representative Krasimir Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We continue to ask the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria: do you know what texts you are adopting? In para. 5 of art. 20 is recorded: the electronic identity certificate is issued with a period of validity of five years, colleagues! How will there be an electronic identity of an identity card, of an identity document issued for 10 years, with a period of validity of five years? So those who want to have an electronic identification of their personal documents will have to reissue them every five years. What will that lead to? Until more money is collected than administrators at the expense of those who wish to have such an electronic identity of their personal documents. This period of five years or should be a 10-year-old, as is the period of personal documents or simply what you explain that it is about the relief of Bulgarian citizens, is a new burden for collecting money from people, money from every Bulgarian citizen who wants to be modern, to use this electronic identity and not to carry a few citizen cards for their individual identities. How much money will you take from Bulgarian citizens? I'm proposing a change to para. Five years old, ten years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u142	Thank you. A line? I won't. Mr. Yankov, which member? [[Replications of the MP Krasimir Yankov, away from the microphones.]] I'm really asking you, let me be a little more serious! So, from where I'm sitting, telling me what suggestions you're making, it just doesn't sound prestigious. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u143	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. Five years to become ten years old. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u144	Before that the word requested the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, before you vote, I would like to clarify why the deadline is five years, recalling once again that this draft law is a technologically neutral and ID card, the new identity card with a chip is only one option to record an electronic identifier on it. The period of validity of the electronic identifier shall be five years. That period shall be such in terms of security, in terms of the security of the combination of physical medium and electronic identifier. And I'll give you an example: in your pocket you must have several bank cards that have a maximum validity period of three years. Banks do not allow themselves to issue bank cards with a period of validity greater than three years right from the point of view of the security of the holder, security of your money that stands in your bank account. [[BSP LB.]] As for the validity of the ID card, yes, it is ten years. [[Noise and lines.]] We're not changing I.D.s every five years, and at five, it's gonna be on the ID chip. [[BSP LB.]] How much? That's right, from the tariff of the Council of Ministers, but no cards will be issued. There will be no new cards, no new fees, and so on. Let's not speculate. We're talking about recording a file from a few kilobytes on the chip on the map. The analogy is with the disks. On a disk either on a disk or on a flash drive you can record files repeatedly. This chip is a physical carrier only. Once it's issued, there's no need to reissue, I'm talking about IDs every five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u146	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Mr. Iankov, I don't understand if you'll withdraw the offer. [[(Reply of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov from place: No, I am not withdrawing him! Let's vote!]] I put to the vote the proposal made in the Chamber by the National Representative from BSP left Bulgaria and Mr. Krasimir Yankov in art. 20, para. 5 the period of validity shall be 10 years. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 13 against 63, abstention 20. I shall put to the vote art. 20, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version as reported by Mr. Ivanov. Vote 95 MPs: 83 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u147	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Abort the effect of the certificate Art. 22. (1) The effect of the certificate shall cease: 1. with the expiry of its period of validity; 2. upon death of the holder of the certificate. (2) The Minister of Interior shall immediately cease the operation of the certificate: 1. at the request of the holder of the certificate, after having verified his identity; 2. when establishing that the certificate has been issued on the basis of incorrect data; 3. when changing the data on the basis of which the electronic identity certificate has been issued; 4. in cases of incidents related to compromising the security of electronic identification. (3) The termination shall be entered in the register referred to in art. 19th para. 1, t. 1 immediately after the corresponding circumstance under para. 1, t. 2 and para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority')
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts supported by the Commission with the corresponding version in art. Art. 21 and art. 22. Vote 97 MPs: 86, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u149	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: supplied notification of changes Art. 23. A primary data controller shall inform the Interior Minister automatically and electronically of any change of personal data relating to the activities referred to in Chapter 3 and this Chapter immediately after the change. The notification shall contain the identity of the person and the change information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u150	Statements under art. 23? I won't. We're closing the debate. Vote art. 23 by importer with the corresponding version. Vote 89 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u151	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter Five be amended as follows: "Chapter 5" is an electronic identity check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u152	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Five in the version of the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 78, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u153	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: supplier of electronic identity Art. 24. (1) The verification of electronic identity shall be a process of automated verification of the validity of an electronic identity certificate issued when providing electronic services. (2) The verification of the electronic identity shall be carried out by electronic identification centres by means of specialised protocols or by other means defined by the rules of application of the law. (3) The verification of the electronic identity shall be carried out on electronic request of an interested person after payment of a fee of an amount determined by the tariff under art. 18. (4) Verification of electronic identity upon electronic request of public authorities and persons performing public functions shall be carried out by the centre under art. 9, para. 1. No fee is due for the verification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u154	Statements under art. 24? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 24, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding editorials. Vote 92 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u155	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: supplier of an electronic identity certificate Art. 25. The Minister of Interior shall provide electronic identification centres with the possibility of carrying out a free verification of an electronic identity certificate in a manner defined by the Rules of Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u156	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. Vote art. 25, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. 90 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u157	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: supplied data volume Art. 26. (1) When verifying the electronic identity by the state authorities, the electronic identification centres shall provide only the data related to the electronic identity certificate which are entered as accessible in the register of administrative services under art. 61, para. 1, t. 2 of the Administration Act as necessary for the provision of the service. (2) When the use of electronic identification services is initially claimed by the electronic services providers, the electronic identification centres shall notify the Commission of the protection of personal data of the volume of personal data relating to the electronic identity certificate to be processed by those persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u158	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 26, supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. Vote 97 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u159	Under art. 27 there is a proposal made by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: "Conservation and access to information on verification carried out Art. 27 (1) Electronic identification centres and e-service providers shall keep records of the verification of electronic identity carried out under conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the Law. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be kept for 10 years. (3) Natural persons shall be entitled to free and free access to the information under para. 1 collected for them, in order determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (4) The data under para. 1 stored by electronic identification centres shall not include location data or unique device numbers by which the electronic identification is carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u160	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 27, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 96 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u161	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: supplies, technical requirements and ways to verify electronic identity Art. 28. Protocols, technical requirements and ways of verifying electronic identity shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u162	Statements under art. 28? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 28, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u164	Statements? I won't. I put the name of Chapter Six to the vote. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u165	Under art. 29 there is a proposal made by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: "Register of Empowerments" Art. 29. (1) For the exercise of rights through a proxy before a public authority, an organisation providing public services and persons exercising public functions, the authorising officer must empower the mandater by entering his unique identifier in an electronic register of credentials led by the Minister of Interior. (2) Empowerment shall be carried out after identification by electronic identifier of the author and by signing the empowering statement with a qualified electronic signature. (3) The author shall indicate the actions for which he grants representative authority to the authorised person, the volume of representative authority and the duration of the authorisation. (4) Persons other than those referred to in para. 1 may provide for the exercise of rights before them by means of a proxy by typifying the volume and conditions of representation in a manner defined by the rules of application of the law. In relation to these persons, the empowerment shall be carried out in the persons under art. 9 Empowerment Registers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Statements under art. 29? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 29, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 79 MPs: 74, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u167	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MP Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 30: "Written form" Art. 30. The written form with notary certification of signatures for authorizations shall be deemed to be respected if there is an appropriate entry in the register of credentials.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u168	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 30 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 67, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u170	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 31. Vote 77 MPs: 70, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u171	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: "Learning, storage and access to the register of credentials" Art. 32. (1) The register of credentials shall not be public. Authors, authorized persons and persons under art. 29, para. 1 and 4 shall have access to the data from the register relating to the relevant authorisation relating to them. (2) The procedure for keeping, storing and accessing the register of credentials shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (3) The persons referred to in art. 29, para. 1 perform a verification of representative power resulting from a law through automated verification in the relevant registers, led by the primary data controllers under art. 2, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Governance, which is responsible for the registration of this circumstance, unless a special law prohibits it. In this case, entry and verification in the register of credentials shall not be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u172	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support with the relevant editorial article. 32. Vote 87 MPs: 73, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u173	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u174	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 33, supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 77, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u175	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u176	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Chapter Seven, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u177	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u178	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote Articles 34 and 35, supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 77, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u180	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 36, Art. 37 supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u181	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: supplier of information systems Art. 38 The verification of the information systems shall cover the compliance of the functioning system with the requirements laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u182	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 38, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u183	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39. On-the-spot verification Art. 39. (1) The on-the-spot inspection shall be carried out at the premises used for carrying out the activity by persons subject to control under art. 34 in the presence of the person representing them or of persons working for them. (2) Officials carrying out the on-the-spot verification shall be entitled to: 1. free access to the premises inspected; 2. require the provision of documents in relation to the controlled activity; 3. require written and oral explanations from workers, employees and other persons working for the inspected person, from counterparties of the inspected person and from all persons present in the inspected premises at the time of the inspection; 4. to request from third parties documents, information and assistance necessary for the checks; 5. carry out cross-checks in third party service premises on matters relating to the verification. (3) When the verification is complex and requires special knowledge, the control bodies may attract experts in the relevant field.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u184	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 39, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u186	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 40. They voted 93 MPs: 82, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u187	The Commission proposes to create a new Chapter Eight with art. 41 and 42: "Chapter 8" Notifications and cooperation Notifications Art. 41. (1) The Minister of Interior shall inform the European Commission of the circumstances under art. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No (2) Any person with known evidence of infringements or endangerment under art. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Cooperation Art. 42. Cooperation under art. 12 paragraphs 5 and 6 of Regulation (EU) No are carried out by the Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u188	Statements on Chapter Eight with art. 41 and 42? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Eight and the version of art. 41 and 42, according to the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u189	"Chapter 8" - Forced administrative measures and administrative criminal liability. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Eight, which becomes Chapter Ninth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u190	Statements? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. 88 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u191	Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u192	We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 87, none, abstention 9. This proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u193	Article 43. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41, which becomes art. 43: ? Forced administrative measures Art. 43. (1) For the prevention and cessation of violations of this law and its implementing acts, and for the prevention or elimination of the harmful effects thereof, the Minister of Interior may: 1. issue a written prescription for taking specific measures to remedy the infringement within a specified time limit; 2. suspend the activity for which registration has been carried out and suspend the access of the registered person to the register of electronic identity certificates until the infringement has been resolved. (2) Forced administrative measures under para. 1 shall be applied by a motivated order of the Minister of Interior. (3) In the order under para. 2 the type of enforcement measure and the period for its implementation shall be determined. (4) The order under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The appeal shall not suspend the enforcement of the enforcement measure applied.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u194	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 41 by importer, which becomes art. 43 in its version and the name of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u195	Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u196	We vote. Vote 85 MPs: 74, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u197	Article 42. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42, which becomes art. 44: "Activity without registration" Art. 44. Acting as an administrator of electronic identity or of an electronic identification centre without being entered in the register under art. 10, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 200 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u198	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 42 by importer with new numbering of art. 44 by the name and wording of the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u199	Article 43. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 45: Not fulfilling an obligation by a registered person Art. 45. (1) An administrator of electronic identity, who has declared issuing an electronic identity certificate in violation of this law, shall be punished with a fine or penalty of 50 000 BGN. (2) An administrator of electronic identity who does not fulfil another obligation under this law shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 BGN. (3) An electronic identification centre which has carried out electronic identification in violation of this law shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 150,000 to 300,000 BGN. (4) An electronic identification centre which does not fulfil another obligation under this law shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 5000 to 30 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u200	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 43 by importer, which becomes art. 45 with its name and the wording of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u201	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44, which becomes Art. 46: 'Construction of control bodies Art. 46. Those who prevent, refuse access or provide documents, data, information and consultation to an official in the exercise of the control activity under this law shall be punished with a fine or penalty of 1000 to 10 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u202	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name and version of art. 46 on the Commission report. Vote 93 MPs: 83, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u203	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45, which becomes art. 47: Not submitting an application for a change in circumstances to be entered in a register Art. 47. A registered person who does not apply for a change of circumstances subject to entry shall be punished with a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u204	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 47 in the numbering, version and name of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u205	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46, which becomes art. 48: ? Non-execution of forced administrative measure Art. 48. (1) Who has failed to implement a forced administrative measure under art. 43, para. 1, t. 1 shall be punished with a fine or penalty of 1000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) which performs the management activity of electronic identity certificates after the application of a forced administrative measure under art. 43, para. 1, t. 2, shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of 100 000 to 500 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u206	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 48 of the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u207	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47, which becomes Art. 49: "Reconciliation" Art. 49. In case of repeated infringement under art. 44-48, a fine or a double penalty shall be imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u208	Statements? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 89 MPs: 79, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u209	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48, which becomes art. 50: "Producing administrative penalties" Art. 50. (1) The acts for the identification of infringements under art. 44 48 shall be composed of officials appointed by the Minister of Interior. (2) The Penal Orders under para. 1 shall be issued by the Minister of Interior. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u210	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 50. They voted 93 MPs: 84, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u211	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 49 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u212	The text has become al. 3 of art. 50, which we already voted on. Statements, coworkers? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 49 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u213	The Commission supports the importer's text on the name of Chapter 9 and proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic position as Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u214	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. 86 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u215	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 50 to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u216	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 96 MPs: 84, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u217	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 51 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u218	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u219	"Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u220	We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u221	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u222	We vote. 70 MPs voted: 70, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u223	Under § 2, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... This law introduces the implementing measures of Regulation (EU) No) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u224	There are no speeches. We vote. Vote 94 MPs: 82, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u225	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. (1) The Council of Ministers shall adopt the rules for the implementation of the law and the tariff under art. 18 within 6 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. (2) The Minister of Interior shall: 1. determine the places referred to in Article 1. 20, para. 2 within one year of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2. provides an opportunity for submission of applications under art. 15, para. 1 by electronic means within 7 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 3. inform the European Commission of the circumstances under art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) State bodies providing electronic administrative services for which identification is required by law, within one year of the promulgation of the law in the Official Gazette: 1. declare entry in the register under art. 1. 61, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Administration the volume of personal data which are entitled to process in accordance with law, and 2. provide a technical opportunity for identification under this law in the provision of these services.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u226	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the name "Transitional and final provisions" and § 3 in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u227	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of § 5, item 1. 4 verification of the identity of an applicant when submitting an application by electronic means may also be made by an electronic administrative service provider. (2) The verification shall be carried out immediately by the supplier through: 1. a comparison of the name of the applicant referred to in the application and the name of the author contained in the electronic signature certificate, and 2. verification in the relevant administration responsible for the personal registration of citizens, whether the unique identifier of the applicant referred to in the application corresponds to the name of the citizen established under point 2. 1 name. (3) The identity check shall be carried out for all citizens in respect of which circumstances are stated and which are identified by a unique identifier. The identity check of organisations shall be carried out by checking the relevant registers of organisations. (4) Upon technological opportunity the checks under para. 2 and 3 shall be carried out automatically. (5) Where the applicant does not have a unique identifier, check under para. 2, p. 2 shall not be carried out. (6) Where access to the electronic administrative service is made through the single medium for the exchange of documents or where in the ordinance under art. 12, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Governance provides another way to identify the relevant type of access, check under para. 2 shall not be carried out. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements, colleagues? I won't. We vote § 4. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u228	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: The Law on Electronic Governance (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 5 is amended as follows: "Identification obligations' Art. 5. (1) The obligations under this Chapter arise if the citizen, respectively, has identified himself in order laid down in law, where a law requires identification for the provision of an administrative service. (2) In the application of the relevant electronic administrative service, administrative authorities, public authorities and bodies providing public services shall be obliged to provide citizens and organisations with the opportunity to identify themselves in order laid down in law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: suppliers of electronic administrative services and authors of electronic statements shall be identified by order determined by law, unless by law an administrative service is allowed to be provided without identification. Recipients of electronic administrative services are identified by their unique identifier. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The citizens of a Member State of the European Union shall be identified by means of their national electronic identifier in accordance with the act under art. Council Regulation (EC) No 257/73 of 28 August 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OJ L 257/73, p.) is used in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.) and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, etc.), and in combination with other substances (e.g. alcohol, alcohol, etc.). c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3; (d) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing 3. Article 24 is amended as follows: "Representation" Art. 24. For the use of electronic administrative services by proxy, the authorising officer must empower him under the Law on Electronic Identification. 4. Article 28 is amended as follows: "Training of the identity of legal entities Art. 28. The identity of legal persons shall be verified by automated verification of their status in the relevant registers in which they are entered when there are technical means for carrying out it. 5. Article 29 shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u229	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u230	Thank you, Madam President. I propose a procedure for extending working hours until the end of the votes on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u231	We have two more paragraphs. Inverse opinion Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u232	Madam President, honourable Members! My proposal is not as reverse as it is expanding, because apart from this Law, we have another Law that we started about a month ago. We only have two speeches left to make in seven minutes. That's the law that we filed under art. 50, para. 8 "To take a decision from the National Assembly on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. I propose that working hours be extended to the adoption of this decision. [[Replying and shouting.]] Colleagues from GERB, please do not pretend to be masochists. We will make this decision until the moment you discuss it, all the more so that next month we are first and you will be forced to do so. Don't wait a month. Make a decision today:............................................................ or anything............................................. Don't mush! Agree or vote against, but it's another eight minutes more time. Otherwise, the other thing you're doing about the cowardly behavior in the bushes, I don't want to take attitude because I don't know what attitude to take. Thank you. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u233	In return for Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, this was essentially a new proposal made in time until 2:00? I won't. I put the two procedural proposals to the vote in the order in which they were made. First, I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's proposal to extend the working time until the debate and vote on the bill, which we are currently voting on for electronic identification. Vote 92 MPs: 82 against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's proposal to extend the plenary time until the debate and vote on the draft decision, which is included by law, in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. They voted 113 MPs: 36, against 58, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u234	Madam President, I would like a re-vote because the first speech in today's session of the National Assembly began with a call for consensus. In the name of this consensus, most of our group supported your proposal to continue working time until the adoption of the Law, which we are currently discussing. Once again, I'm asking you to reconsider this thing. We don't mind if you vote against it, that's okay. Let us end this point and let the Bulgarian society finally know who is for sanctions if you think this is Bulgaria's European policy; who is against sanctions if you think this is the national policy of the party and of our parliament, of the people we are here. Let's not bother and hide behind the procedure....... complete working hours............................................................................................. We solve this issue and will not waste time the first week next month. I'm asking you to vote for this proposal because otherwise you're really being cowardly, which I'm sure you're not. [[Replying, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u235	It's a re-vote. Vote 110 MPs: 34 against 62, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I am voting § 5 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 86, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, we are obviously adopting important texts. On this day and hour it is seen that the opposition is even more than the ruling majority. [[Noise, cheer, lines.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group, I request a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u237	There's no vote here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u238	Re-vote and name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u239	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - absent Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stainov Zhelev - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Additional entry: Aliosman Imamov, Valeri Simeonov, Georgi Andonov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. One hundred twenty-seven present, we have a quorum. Let's move on. Colleagues, we're revisiting § 5. Vote 79 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u240	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u241	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u242	Honourable Members, § 6 concerns the possibility for the electronic identification chip to be placed on the Bulgarian identity documents, including Bulgarian ID cards, that is to say, to become sufficiently massive, so that it can be used more easily in electronic management and, of course, in electronic voting. For this reason, we and the Commission have discussed this issue a little bit, and I have expressed the opinion of the Reformation Block that this opportunity must be envisaged. Of course, there were other comments here that it should be provided where it belongs in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. It does not matter to us what form the possibility of placing an electronic identifier will enter the Bulgarian legislation, the only thing that matters is the final result, and it will be a mass of electronic identification. Every Bulgarian, without increasing the price for the personal document, should have in his pocket an electronic identifier that allows him to use both electronic services in Bulgaria and electronic services abroad, something that we think would really launch Bulgarian public services in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u243	- What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Delchev, you remember very well when we discussed these texts in the Bill, and you know that the arguments that we put out in the Commission, the texts that you adopted, were that the special Law, which is about personal documents, would regulate the order for electronic identification. I can assure you that at the moment, in talks with the Ministry of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, the bill for amendment and supplement of the Personal Documents Act has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers and is now in parliament. It will also be seen in the Commission. In this way, the debate that we are having right now is dropping, and it makes no sense to better focus on finishing and voting the text in the way it was adopted in the Internal Commission. Just to add that in these paragraphs 6 and 7, you know that the entry into force of the electronic identification is from April 2017. Now in the changes made to the Personal Documents Act, it is envisaged that this will become a fact from 1 January 2018 and these texts have already been refined and are made in accordance that fully covers the specialized law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u245	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u246	Thank you Mr. Tsvetanov for the line. Of course, I am aware of the additions to the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act and I am glad that we are going in the same direction and that the goal is common, and that we will eventually do so.. GERB and the Reformation Block, Bulgarians have real electronic services in the 21st century. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u247	Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u248	There is a proposal from the MP Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. A new § 6a shall be established in the Transitional and Final Orders with the following text: 6a. In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom. DV. No..) Art. 18, para. 2 the following text shall be added after the words 24 of the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u249	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 22, against 23, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u250	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "Paragraph 7 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u251	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 90, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u252	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with Article 8. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... The law shall enter into force 6 months after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. Article 8, Art. 8 9, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 10, 11 and art. 15-17, which shall enter into force 7 months after its promulgation; 2. Article 9, para. Art. 1, 3 and 4 Art. 19-21, Art. 22, except para. 1, t. Art. 3, Art. 23-28, § 4 and § 5, t. 1, 2, 4 and 5 which enter into force one year after its promulgation; 3. Articles 29-33 and § 5, t. 3 which shall enter into force 18 months after its promulgation; 4. Article 22, para. 1, t. 3, which shall enter into force on 1 April In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-11.u253	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 in its version on the Commission report and the numbering of the paragraph on the report. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted and the Law on Electronic Identification is adopted in second vote. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
