ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, this week is particularly controversial about the plenary of the bills and acts that are included on the agenda. So far, as a point, all we have is the Ratification that was voted on yesterday to be t. One for today. Therefore, I propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules after the first point for today, which is clear, include the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2014 in the field of postal services, an analysis of the postal services market for 2014 and the Annual Report of the same Commission in the field of electronic communications. Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. They've been notified, ready to send a representative to the Chamber. I put to the vote the proposals for an addition to our programme for today. They voted 145 MPs: 132, against 2, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, as you know, yesterday by letter No 654-02-17 of 11 February 2016. 69 Members of Parliament on the grounds of art. 89, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria proposes to vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of his health policy. In accordance with the provisions of our Rules, that the motion to vote on no-confidence cannot be debated in this House earlier than three days, but no later than seven, the debate on the vote of no-confidence tabled will take place next Wednesday. Depending on when they end up as time, no earlier than 24 hours we will schedule the vote on the proposal of these 69 MPs. Let's start with: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year following the entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and from the date of the entry into force of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Foreign Policy Committee report will present to us Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u2	Madam President, colleagues! Before the report, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Vassily Takev, Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry, and Mrs. Maria Pavlova, Acting Officer of the Directorate of Development and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Vote 131 MPs: 126 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u4	♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valetta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016. At a meeting held on 10 February 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned Draft Law. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Rumen Alexandrov. The trust fund is established within the framework of the European Development Fund. The aim is to develop an innovative European implementing instrument to attract funds from donors. The trust fund will create a new form of European cooperation for assistance. The Fund aims to provide a higher level of coordination and a stronger integrated approach to comprehensively addressing migration challenges. The main objective and purpose of the Trust Fund is to take action to resolve crises in the Sahel and Lake Chad, the Horn of Africa and North Africa. The Fund will act in subsidiarity and complementarity of the European Union's instruments. It is established for a limited period until 31 December 2020, in order to give a short and medium-term response to the challenges facing the three regions. The contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the amount of 50,000 euros will be provided by the budget for official assistance from the programme budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. In accordance with art. 3.2.2 of the Agreement establishing each contribution from the donor shall be made after the signing of the "Contribution Certificate" drawn up in accordance with the model in Annex III and sent to the Manager by the donor. All signed certificates by donors shall become part of Annex II within the meaning of art. 3.7 of the Founding Agreement. The Memorandum shall be ratified by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 16 votes for the European Union's non-voting and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules of procedure signed in La Valetta on 12 November 2015 and the certificate of contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund of the European Union for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal regulations, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Procedure, Mr. Karadaye? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, information was released in the media about a publication in Turkish media that Ankara has prohibited Bulgarian citizens, who are also citizens of the European Union, the leader, the Honorary Chairman of the Third Political Power in the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Ahmed Dogan, and the MP from the parliamentary group of the DPS Mr. Delyan Peevski, from entering the territory of the Republic of Turkey. The same information was confirmed by the Turkish Embassy in front of the Bulgarian National Television. In this regard, I propose that, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the management of the National Assembly take the necessary steps to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify, confirm or deny information in the media about the ban. The Minister should inform the National Assembly of the actions he has taken so far, as well as the measures he will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. I will make contact with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or if he is prevented, his deputy to come to the National Assembly and answer the question you are asking. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement establishing an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an Emergency Trust Fund of the European Union for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 04.02.2016 At its meeting held on 10 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Veronika Orbetsova in the Directorate of Development and Development Cooperation and Mrs. Sasha Raycheva - junior expert in the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union. The bill was presented by Mrs. Veronica Orbetsova. This bill proposes ratification of the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund within the framework of the European Development Fund. The objective is to create a trust fund to address migration challenges arising from crises in Africa by raising contributions from Member States and other non-traditional donors. The priority areas of action of the Agreement are dealing with the root causes of destabilization, forced displacement and illegal migration. The Fund shall be established by 31 December 2020, with the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria of 50 000 euros provided by the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the European Union, without abstention and without abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill for the ratification of the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund of the European Union for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund of the European Union for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. By the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, Mrs. Sylvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u10	♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valetta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016. At its meeting held on 10 February 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the above-mentioned Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission's meeting was attended by the following representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Ms. Maria Pavlova, Director of the Directorate of Development and Development Cooperation and Mrs. Sasha Raycheva, Junior Expert at the Directorate of International Law and Law of the European Union. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement establishing, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valletta, as well as the Certificate of Donors' Contribution, signed on 30 November 2015. The establishment of an emergency trust fund aims to raise contributions from Member States and other non-traditional donors to achieve greater coherence and reduce the risk of crushing aid while providing the European Union with a platform for stronger political visibility and enhanced commitment to countries of origin and transit. It should be borne in mind that a source of funding for the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria amounting to EUR 50,000 will be provided for official development aid from the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. According to the provisions of art. 21 of the Constitutional Agreement, the arrangements for participation in the Fund shall be governed by the Agreement, the applicable European Union legislation and the basic principles common to the legal systems of the Member States. By virtue of that provision, in the event of unsuccessful dispute resolution between them, any State may refer the matter to the General Court of the European Union. In this case, it shall act as an arbitration tribunal pursuant to art. 272 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Last but not least, the Trust Fund continues to act until one of the following events occurs: No funds available in the accounts of the Trust Fund or promised ones; The Board of the Trust Fund decides that the Trust Fund must end; the European Parliament and/or the Council of the European Union has requested the closure of the Trust Fund pursuant to Article 17.2.2; The end date has been reached, which is 31 December 2020. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes for the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund of the European Union for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valetta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an emergency trust fund of the European Union for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015, No 602-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. There is no report from the Budget and Finance Committee. [[Noise and lines.]] To speak first, the people representative Julian Angelov, then the people representative Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to focus your attention on the following issue concerning not only this ratification but also in principle other ratifications in which Bulgaria participates financially. We're talking $50,000 here. Euros. I and the Patriot Front, of course, do not mind spending money on such countries and regions as to prevent the migration process and to solve relevant economic and other problems, including in the Commission, we have supported this ratification, but the question is: the issue is that the foreign ministry budget is too small to be able to continuously respond financially to any such ratifications and contracts. Our ideas and vision is that these funds should be allocated directly either by the Ministry of Finance or by the budget of the Council of Ministers. Why? Because that 50,000. EUR is taken from a programme, let us say briefly "Development" which 4 million is allocated to the development of the countries that are from the Balkans and Southeast Europe, that is, countries that are not members of the European Union, but are our neighbours and have lasting relations with them. These 4 million mainly in Albania, Macedonia, Serbia, Kosovo, Moldova, Ukraine are used by the Foreign Ministry to finance projects related to infrastructure, culture and education. In these countries there are traditionally large Bulgarian communities. Some of these funds solve the problems of the Bulgarian communities in these countries. So what happens now? We are withdrawing from the budget of the Programme "Development" "50 thousand." EUR, we give them ratification, we deprive countries with which we want to have good relations, Bulgarian communities there to live better, we deprive them of these funds. Why are we doing this? This week, for example, in Albania, one time was discovered, which was financed under this programme. In Ukraine and Moldova, both culture and education are also funded under this programme. And the Bulgarian communities there actually use these funds. I therefore point out that we need to find a mechanism and a way for these funds not to harm the Foreign Ministry and especially the Development Programme to be found elsewhere. And as a last example, I will give you one fact, perhaps most of them know it, but the Foreign Ministry has a budget as much as the Turkish Consulate in Komotini or Gumurjina in Northern Greece, which is too small and not to say that it is funny, so I really sharpen your attention to not deprive the Bulgarian communities abroad of funds that can reach them and not deprive this Bulgarian foreign policy of being able to influence more directly in the countries of Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Note that it's not about 50 grand at all. Euros! Most likely, colleagues from the other committees have misunderstood what this is about. As Vice-President of the Budget Committee, I would like to tell you that yesterday our Commission firmly and unanimously postponed this point, as we have doubts that this is about signing an empty check. You do realize that in La Valletta, they didn't come together to sign a check for 50 grand. Euros?! Note that this is the first certificate. Colleagues, the second certificate can be for 5 million, the third one for 50 million. He asks: " Where will we pay for the first causes? Where are the root causes of the chaos in Libya and other North African countries? Is our country the first cause of the problems there? Didn't you see what the root causes were and who crashed these countries? Well, it's very simple for those countries that have broken up North Africa to pay! How will our people pay for their supply of oil and other good works for decades?! So we can't sign an empty check! The Budgetary Commission of the Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria is here about a fund, it is not about writing cards for Christmas. It is not about writing cards for such a fund has not been pronounced and has postponed the vote. Well, how come, since the core is a fund and a financial commitment, we're voting today?! I urge you not to support the project until we understand how much check Bulgaria will pay, as it is only a first certificate, after which every government will be able to sign checks and send them. And as long as we don't have the money for pensions and hospitals, we'll pay for the Zulum of other countries. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] And in this regard, I suggest that the vote be postponed until the Budget Committee is examined with all the documents until we find out what we are signing. There's nothing fatal about it. Next time, if we're convinced, we'll support him, but today we can't sign an empty check!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u15	Thank you, sir. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also join the motion to postpone the examination of the point because, firstly, the MPs on this point do not have any information. In fact, what I understand from the proposed Bill is that it is an introductory contribution to the establishment of this fund, which is not even defined in this Bill of what value it is. This is one. From then on, we do not have any information on what the financial obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria will be to this guarantee, trust and I do not know what your fund is, so the correct solution is to postpone the examination of this point until we get complete information. Otherwise, it will really turn out to be, and I will join in with what Prof. Gechev that we will sign an empty check with a vague value in it. Unknown value. Something we don't have the right to do. I ask you to put to the vote, Mr President, to postpone the examination of this bill until the Budget Committee comes out with a detailed and clear report to inform the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we find ourselves in a strange distribution of responsibilities from Bulgaria, the costs unknown to whom the benefits are for. Once again, we have a case in which we are trying to become solidarity in assuming responsibilities, wines for which we do not have, and once again Bulgaria is trying to line up in a row with everyone else, including significantly better developed countries from it, without these developed countries paying enough attention to it. Even if there were any reason to think about the creation of such a Fund, with all the risks inside, without mentioning what the costs would be for the state and in the future, what would be the benefits, because no one knows at the moment what benefits Bulgaria would have, it would have made sense if we were part of the common Schengen area, if we had shared responsibility, but at the same time and shared with the European Union the costs of guarding our border, and not the responsibility for the border to be on our backs, but what we get as recognition to be expressed not in material resources at these costs, but by patting on the shoulder of everyone who has come here, to tell us how well we guard our border. Yes, thank you, we know, we keep it well, but at the expense of Bulgarian citizens, at the expense of our budget, at the expense of funds that could go for social policies. In this regard, I think that we should adopt a ratification today without even setting any conditions for future time, without considering what the benefits will be, it is at least naive, not to say that it is anti-national. So please very much, let's postpone the point. Let the Committee on Budget and Finance of the National Assembly, which is competent, examine these issues, see the exact parameters, see the risks, see the benefits of such an agreement, and only then, when we do such an analysis, decide whether it makes sense to ratify or not. Therefore, Mr President, please, and it has been done as a procedure, to put to the vote the motion to postpone the examination of this item from the agenda until the Committee on Budget and Finance decides on the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u19	Yes, thank you. Of course, we'll make the offer. Are there any other comments to give Mr. Takev the floor if he intends to give any further clarification? First, I want to know if there's a counterproposal under the procedure? If the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are going to give any clarification, that's how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u20	Colleagues, a procedural proposal has been made by Mr. Ermenkov. A reverse opinion? I won't. Any other speeches from MPs? I won't. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has explained the questions asked and answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate on a European scale on this process, which we call it a migration process, not only refugees, because at the beginning of it there was also a mixing of the two figures: a refugee and a migrant, and this created serious political imbalances in talking on the topic in Europe is also needed for Bulgaria. This is your territory, you, according to the Constitution, form Bulgaria's foreign policy, so you have all the opportunities to consummate in all fullness the problems of the root causes and where Bulgaria is located in the European debate on the solution of the migration problem. In La Valletta Bulgaria has joined the formatting of such a policy to seek the root causes, which is the most stable and the most solid philosophy, I suppose, hardly anyone will deny it, and help in places instead of migratory pressure to approach the borders of Bulgaria. Firstly, I would like to highlight a formal but substantial nuance of the proposal to the National Assembly that this is a voluntary Fund. No one obliges us to take part in the process. The certificate determines, according to the government's decision, symbolic, against the backdrop of the entire effort, a contribution of 50 thousand. The dollar. I would love to divide the comments and positions of the National Representative Angelov that, yes, this projects seriously on the budget resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under Programme Policy Development Assistance. Yes, we have an interest in this money, politically, where possible, to the maximum extent that we can focus it and use it on the terrain of our neighbours, where we have lasting and sustainable interests, but at the moment the migration problem is fundamental to Europe. The European Union has found its approach and it is purely politically natural. This is a notorious fact: Bulgaria is part of this space, should be symbolically involved in it. This is the political interest, I believe, of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, this money is from the Ministry's budget, I stress, it does not go along the Republican, state budget. They won't have a fatal significance for other projects. We also have an annual budget under development aid and the government has estimated that with this money Bulgaria can make this symbolic step for participation in the common scheme. Further on, it is natural a matter of political will and interest whether Bulgaria will participate voluntarily in this Fund. Thirdly, each certificate as part of the Agreement will pass for your subsequent sanction, that is, you will have the opportunity to pronounce yourself if possible in the future it is necessary and the Bulgarian government decides to participate in this voluntary Fund. And fourthly, one comment beyond the characteristic of this debate, which could have a serious political consequence. I have once done Bulgaria's largest foreign policy campaign for Bulgaria's membership in the Security Council. In general, regardless of the difference in methodology and in the technology of certain phases, we will follow this scheme with the campaign of Mrs. Bokova's candidacy, Mr. Gechev, and a possible non-accession of Bulgaria to this European effort, I can tell you from now on, guarantee a 30 "40 votes less at the General Assembly of the United Nations, because no one will recognize us as a partner country to the problems of these countries. In other words, every question of formality has its political implications in a given phase, and that should also be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u22	Thank you. Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u23	Madam President, honourable Members, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! I am making a kind of replica of Deputy Minister Takev, because it seems to me that it is not right for him to bind the nomination and the possible election of Mrs. Bokova as President of the United Nations with the decision that we should take today. In a sense, what you just said, Mr. Takev, sounds a little bit like diplomatic blackmail or support this proposal of ours, as it will be paid from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not from the state budget, or it will take us 30 votes in the vote of Mrs. Bokova for President of the United Nations. In this sense, I completely disagree with you, and I believe that such a position is unacceptable to the National Assembly. I fully join Mr. Ermenkov's remarks and Professor Ermenkov's. Gechev, that at the last moment today, we are getting, as you understand, this item on the agenda. Many of us are not at all familiar with the parameters of this Agreement, therefore the proposal that has been made, purely procedurally, to postpone, is fair, and I think that we should all approach in this way,........................ to vote to postpone the decision, which does not prevent us from supporting this decision next week's vote. We cannot vote blindly just because we were just told by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that a possible failure to accept this proposal would block Mrs. Bokova's choice. I fully agree with the procedural proposal that has already been made, and I call on you to respond responsibly. Otherwise, it would appear that we are voting without reading as, by the way, unfortunately, it happens very often in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u24	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? Mrs. Grozdanova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u25	Madam President, Mr. Enchev, we are talking, as has been explained, about a voluntary contribution of donation, yet to establish a single fund of the European Union. From then on, our future voluntary contributions are determined by us according to our capabilities. As the Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry said, any future voluntary contribution will pass through the certificate through ratification of the National Assembly. In our Commission, the issue has been discussed for a very long time, although the details have not been given in the report. There was a proposal for Bulgaria to enter this donor programme with a larger contribution of 3 million. Euros so that he can have a vote. However, these are very different debates. Today we set up this Fund and Bulgaria participates with a minimum contribution of 50 thousand. EUR, for example, as are all Baltic countries. There is nothing wrong with ratifying this document today and then continuing the debate at the next stage, at what level we would like to participate. Again, the desire depends on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u26	Second line? A hole, Mr. Enchev? You won't use it. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. First, I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Tasco Ermenkov and Mr. Rumen Gechev, I understand, before that, I personally heard Mr. Ermenkov about delaying the item on the agenda. They voted 129 MPs: 35, against 66, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Agreement establishing an emergency European Union trust fund for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 12 November 2015 in La Valetta and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an emergency European Union trust fund for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015. They voted 131 MPs: for 101, against 7, abstention 23. The ratification bill was adopted in the first vote. Ms. Grozdanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u27	Madam President, I propose that the so-called First-Read ratification bill be reviewed at the second reading of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u28	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I think we made a gesture today when Parliament adopted at first reading, that is to say ratifying this bill at first reading. I think it would be good for the Bulgarian Parliament to give time for at least one week to colleagues who just wanted to have a little more time, to get acquainted with the details of this proposal, to think once more and to discuss what the options are. The discussion in the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs. Grozdanova, of course, was long, but there were other elements of it, especially in the part of where the funds will be imported into this Fund. I don't see the point in this rush. If you want us to have a consolidated position in favour of this proposal, which is important here, I would suggest that we do not involve our candidate for the UN Secretary-General at all, although there is such a logic, but this cannot be the main argument for our accession to this Fund. I personally think that Bulgaria's participation in it is important, but give the MPs at least a few days to get acquainted in more detail so that we can confidently support the proposal at the next vote next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u30	I put to the vote the motion for a vote in one sitting and at the second reading of the ratification bill, since no requests for proposals were made during the debates between the first and second votes. Vote 126 MPs: 92 against 30, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u31	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and coping with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valletta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015. A single member. It shall identify the Agreement establishing an emergency European Union trust fund for stability and addressing the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed in La Valletta on 12 November 2015 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex II to the Agreement establishing an emergency European Union trust fund for stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules, signed on 30 November 2015. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u32	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement adopted at first reading. They voted 126 MPs: 94 against 9, abstention 23. The proposal has been adopted, and with this the bill is voted in second. For a negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines, clarification between the President and the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov has spoken on the first vote, but on the second vote he has not participated in the debate, which is why he is entitled to a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u33	I see, Madam President, the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u34	That's commendable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u35	Madam President, honourable Members, I voted against it, not because I am opposed to this Agreement, but against the way we voted it. Because this was one of the few moments in our parliamentary life, in which, with a minimum effort and a little more information received from the MPs, who were interested to see what it was about, we could achieve a consensus and a vote of vote for................................................................................ But you, loyal to your position to force your decisions, bring things back to the absurdity of having people who refrain, to have people who are opposed. Again, not the essence of what you're voting on, but the way we're doing it. I ask you very much to come to your senses, and when there is a possible consensus in the future, do not violate this possibility, because there is some schizophrenia on the one hand, your party president and prime minister are calling for unity in the important moments and, on the other, with your actions you are bringing disunity to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u36	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u37	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like a three-day extension procedure for proposals between the first and second reading of the tobacco and tobacco bill, No 502-01-99, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015 and adopted at the first vote on 10 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u38	Is there a reverse opinion? Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u39	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, please allow for an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law on the withdrawal of property adopted yesterday to the maximum permissible amount in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u40	It's about the illegally acquired property, because otherwise it would appear that we voted to take away property and vote nationalisation. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW ON LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN POSITION. With the report of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Kirilov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u41	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to present your attention to you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. At its meeting held on 28 October 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Andrey Jankulov, Deputy Minister of Justice and Mr. Atanas Slavov, Advisor in the Office of the Minister of Justice; from the Bulgarian Center for Not-for-Profit Law (Bulgarian Center) The bill was presented by Mr. Andrey Yankulov and Mr. Atanas Slavov. It proposes the transition of the registration of non-profit legal entities to the Registry Agency of the Minister of Justice, establishing a register of non-profit legal entities (NGOs) to the Commercial Register. The bill provides for the status of public benefit organisations to arise from the moment of registration in the register of non-profit legal entities (NGOs) of the Commercial Register. In this way, the need to maintain the Central Register of NGOs for public benefit to the Ministry of Justice is dropped. It is expected that with the adoption of the proposed amendments, the transparency and accountability of organisations will be improved and that the administrative burden will be reduced. An important consequence of these amendments will also be the unloading of the court from cases where there is no legal complexity. In the course of the discussion, the national representative Hristian Mitev expressed his support for the bill, pointing out that it will contribute to facilitating the work of non-profit legal entities. Their introduction into the Trade Register will make them more transparent and will unload the Ministry of Justice from keeping the register. Mr. Mitev raised a question as to whether the Registry Agency is ready. In response Mr. Atanas Slavov pointed out that the bill was made with the help of experts from the Registry Agency and readiness to create a register of NGOs there is. He stressed that budgetary resources are also provided for the implementation of the changes. National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov expressed his opinion that the bill is timely and useful because it is really necessary to introduce a certain order in non-profit associations. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 8 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015, proposed to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities Act No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. Madam President, I also take the opportunity to propose a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u42	Colleagues, I use this procedure by Mr. Kirilov to propose to vote and admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Poryazov in relation to the request made by Mr. Karadayi to answer a question he asked in plenary. Is there a reverse position to allow the two Deputy Ministers to the justice and foreign affairs respectively? I won't. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 86 against 8, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall, and Mr. Porazov is expected to answer the question asked by Mr. Karadayi in the stands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u43	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I could answer this question on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have official information about such a decision as is commented in Bulgarian and Turkish media. In this sense, we cannot make any comments other than informing you of what information we have, namely that there is no communication from an official Turkish institution for such a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Porizov, for your response on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u46	We continue with the report on the Commission's first vote on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Mrs. Marinska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u47	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote At its regular meeting on 5 November 2015, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. The meeting was attended by: Vergenia Micheva (Deputy Minister of Justice), Mr. Luben Panov (President of the Public Council of the Commission), Mrs. Iva Taralezhkova (President of the Civil Participation Forum). On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Vergenia Micheva. The reasons for the submission of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities were noted that the changes were related to reducing the administrative burden in the process of registration of non-profit legal entities and improving the transparency and accountability of organizations. The bill provides for the transition of the registration of non-profit legal entities to the Registry Agency. The change is required as a result of an analysis and evaluation of the application of the Law in the last 14 years, which reveals a number of deficiencies in the legal framework of the registration and accountability procedure of non-profit legal entities. The transfer of registration realises an important stage of the registration reform and corresponds to the objectives set in the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform on the regulation of the workload of courts. No less important is the fact that the court registration of non-profit legal entities is slower and more expensive than the registration of a commercial company in the Registry Agency. It is the transfer to the Registry Agency that will reduce the administrative burden in the registration process, increase the transparency and accountability of non-profit legal entities, exempt the court from cases of low legal complexity, the organisational and technical resources of the Registry Agency will be fully used. The changes envisaged are regarding the status of public benefit organisations, namely this status to arise from the moment of registration in the register of non-profit legal entities of the Commercial Register. In this way, the need to maintain a second special register at the Ministry of Justice will be removed. The one-month period provided for in the amendment to apply for entry into the register of non-profit legal entities shall comply with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance and shall contribute to reducing the administrative burden and saving a significant organisational and financial resource in the implementation of legal procedures. In its entirety, the amendments shall comply with the recommendations made by the Committee of Experts to assess measures against money laundering and terrorist financing to the Council of Europe. In its opinion, the Public Council of the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints takes the view that the Draft should be supported at first reading and proposes that the Members of the National Assembly consider the possibility of creating: - Council for Civil Society Development of the Council of Ministers; - Fund for financing citizens' initiatives; - Mechanism for targeting up to 3% of the personal annual income tax to non-profit legal entities selected by the natural person for public benefit, community center, cultural organization or religion registered under the Religion Act. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed their opinion that they supported the proposals for amendments to the Bill. After a vote, the Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 10 Voices..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. We remain to hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u49	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities No 502-01-83 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. At a regular meeting held on 11 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the proposed Draft. The bill is an importer of the Council of Ministers and was presented by Mrs. Vergenia Micheva-Rouseva. The proposed amendments to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities concern mainly the transition of registrations of non-profit legal entities to the Registry Agency of the Minister of Justice, improving the transparency and accountability of organisations, reducing the administrative burden, exempting the court from cases of low legal complexity and full use of the organisational and technical resources of the Registry Agency. The bill also provides for a change in the status of organizations to the public benefit. This status arises from the registration in the Register of non-profit legal entities of the Commercial Register. In this way, the existing dualism in the registration regime is being dealt with by some of them being registered as such in the court but not registered in the central register and not complying with the transparency and accountability requirements. An opportunity is introduced for the use of electronic services in the process of registration and reporting of non-profit legal entities, which is in line with the Law on Electronic Governance, helps reduce the administrative burden and save significant organisational and financial resources in the implementation of legal procedures. A one-month period has been provided for the application of the conditions to be entered in the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities running from the day of their occurrence, respectively to their change, whichever period under the current arrangements did not exist at all. The proposed regulatory regulation is in accordance with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market, where in art. 8 The obligation for Member States to ensure that all procedures and actions in the provision of services can be easily implemented from a distance by electronic means. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed Draft. After the discussion of the bill followed a vote, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u50	The debate is open. Please, Members of Parliament who wish to express their opinion on this matter? Mr. Bayraktarov was the first to ask for the floor. After him, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. We will support this bill because it is very in place. The bill brings order to this area on the registration of non-profit legal entities, and I would even say that it is a little late, but still better late than never. So I propose that all of our fellow Members support this bill because it is a good one and it is an important bill in the interest of the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We will also support this bill at first reading. Indeed, greater transparency is aimed at regulating these public relations concerning non-profit legal entities In a large part of the texts in the Law itself, there is more to be desired with regard to the transitional and final provisions regarding the passage of non-profit legal entities under the procedure by district courts to the Commercial Register and this special register, with regard to certain texts on the powers of non-profit legal entities. Let's say, in point. 4 is recorded.. Human rights protection or the environment..................................................................................... I don't see why one should rule out the other. So between first and second readings, a number of adjustments should be made in this direction, but as a principle and as the objective of the Law we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will also support this Bill, but I am paying attention to something important that we need to correct between the two readings and this is the re-registered procedure. Such a re-registered procedure is envisaged for all non-profit legal entities, such as, for this purpose, very similar to before the re-registered of traders, if you remember, when the electronic Trade Register was established, some certificates will be issued by the courts and on the basis of them and applications from the respective legal person representing the new Registry Register to the Registry Agency. It will be reregistered. Here it seems to me that we must be particularly careful and learn lessons from previous problems that have happened with traders - the so-called company thefts - so that we do not suspect the theft of legal persons or the theft of parties, I would say, because one of the schemes that were unfortunately used at the time was those certificates issued by the court to be forged and presented to the Agency as authentic, along with applications from some absolutely illegitimate person, who was thus able to register as an agent and then order property from traders. So here my proposal between the two readings will be the court to send these applications to the Registry Agency in a professional capacity, not to provide them to third parties to carry them there under some not particularly clear regime. That way, I think we'll be able to cross the line in the bud and not have any unpleasant consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015, was adopted at first reading. We continue with the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON THE REGULATION OF MESSAGES FOR 2014 IN THE AREA OF PERSONAL ANNUAL REPORT BY THE COMMISSION ON THE REGULATION OF COMMUNICATIONS FOR 2014 IN THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS PASSED BY THE Communications Regulation Commission ON 2 July 2015 The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce you to Mr. Ivan Valkov Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u57	Colleagues, may I have your attention before this announcement? Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that in the final text of the Public Procurement Act adopted by the National Assembly on 2 February 2016 and sent to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for promulgation, but still unpopular in the Official Journal of the European Union, the following factual error has been found, which will be removed in the final text of the Act in its promulgation, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 215, para. 3 words................................................................................. The It's a technical mistake. In the case of the reference norm instead of referring to the correct para. 2 in the text is para. 1. Before being promulgated in the State Gazette "The decree of the President for promulgation of the Law such a technical error, according to art. 72, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, with references to the Law on Legislative Acts, faces the way we are currently proceeding with a communication in plenary with the Members of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Wolf, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u59	We are voting on this proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now we're listening, Mr. Valkov, a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u60	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services Meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on July 08, 2015, attended: Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Deyan Daneshki, Chief Executive Officer of the Bulgarian Post Office, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, as well as members of the Communications Regulation Commission. The report was presented by Mr. Veselin Bozhkov. The report shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act and it analyzes the provision of universal and non-universal postal services in the country. It also contains information about the state of competition in the postal market. For the past year, the volume of the postal market is calculated on the basis of the data obtained of 67 per cent of the licensed and registered operators in Bulgaria. Mr. Bozhkov pointed out that in 2014 the steadily established trend of decline in the number of postal items and services has changed, with a growth of 3% compared to the previous 2013. It was underlined that this was due to an increased number of non-universal postal services and, in particular, to consignments accepted, processed and delivered through courier services for abroad and consignments subject to direct postal advertising. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services for 2014 presents also the structure of the revenues from postal services for the period 2012. The total amount of revenues from the provision of postal services for the past year amounts to about 301 million. BGN, which represents an increase of about 16 per cent compared to 2013. According to the data presented in the report in 2014, the total number of shipments and services to the country and abroad by the universal postal service amounted to around 36 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Mr. Bozhkov stressed that the past 2014 is the fourth year in which the universal postal service is provided in a liberalised postal market. As a result of the conditions created for the development of competition, the process of redistribution of market shares to operators providing this service continues and the market share of the State operator decreases and a permanent downward trend of this indicator is formed. The report noted that in 2014 the Commission examined 117 complaints and signals from postal users against postal operators. In total, 20 complaints were justified and the applicants' claims were met. The other 97 complaints were unfounded. After the presentation of the report, a discussion was held during which the MPs Ivan Valkov, Tsvetomir Mihov and Georgi Svilenski raised questions related to the development of the Bulgarian Posts. In response, Mr. Valeri Borisov pointed out that the Bulgarian Post Offices have managed to adapt to the available market and despite the decrease in market share in the provision of traditional postal services in other areas such as parcel delivery, they are growing. Mr. Borisov emphasized that the historical operator participates in the implementation of various projects so that he can meet the increased consumer requirements for the quality of the services provided in connection with the expansion of e-commerce. Mr. Deyan Daneshki outlined the specific measures taken by the management team of the Bulgarian Post Office in order to increase the competitiveness of the company. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 15 votes for..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I am closing the debates and voting on the draft decision presented to you by the tribune by the National Representative Ivan Valkov, namely: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 17, para. 1 of the Postal Services Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The decision to adopt the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission has been adopted. There is another report.. Annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications, No 520-00-28, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 2 July 2015. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications, No 520-00-28, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 2 July 2015. The Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications was reviewed at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 15 July 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mr. Nikola Kolev, Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission, and the members of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Mr. Konstantin Tilev and Mrs. Irina Romanska, as well as experts from the Commission. The annual report was presented by Mr. Veselin Bozhkov. The annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission drawn up on the basis of art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, represents an analysis of the development and progress in the electronic communications sector in 2014. During the presentation of the report Mr. Bozhkov outlined the main trends in the development of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria for 2014. According to the register of the Communications Regulation Commission, 1156 companies had the right to operate in the provision of public electronic communications and in one year their number increased by 2.4%. Of the registered enterprises 1051 (90.92%) have submitted information to the Communications Regulation Commission in accordance with art. 5 of the General Terms and Conditions for Public Electronic Communications. The report noted that the total volume of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria in 2014 amounted to 2,526 billion. BGN, which represents a decrease of 0,7% compared to 2013. Mr. Bozhkov noted another positive trend in the development of the electronic communications market in Bulgaria, namely the growth of 13.6% compared to 2013 of the total amount of investments invested, which reached 595 million. lv. In view of the effective management of the radio spectrum at the end of 2014, a public consultation procedure was opened on the prospects for use of the free resource in the 1800 MHz frequency band. In 2014, the Law on Electronic Communications has been amended several times, with the first group of amendments concerning the provisions on the allocation of the fees collected by the Communications Regulation Commission, the provision of additional radio frequency spectrum and the introduction of a new one-off fee for the extension of the authorisation. In order to increase the effectiveness of control activities related to the implementation of electronic communications and compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, a significant number of inspection checks were carried out in 2014. It was pointed out that the Communications Regulation Commission carried out monitoring and control over the quality of the services provided to protect the public interest and the interests of the end users. After the presentation of the report was held a discussion in which the MPs Ivan Valkov, Pavel Hristov and Georgi Svilenski took part. Mr. Valeri Borisov paid attention to the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria occupies one of the leading places in the world in broadband access to the Internet. NGO representatives stressed the need to develop new rules, including legislative initiatives, in relation to the fight against the grey sector. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the President and 1 vote for the President of the National Assembly proposed to the National Assembly Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications for 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in connection with art. 38, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications for 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the draft decision, which was just presented to you by the MP Ivan Valkov from the parliamentary tribune, for adoption of the Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications, No 520-00-28, submitted by the Communications Regulation Commission on 2 July 2015. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The decision's been made. We're gonna take a break. Since 11:00 we continue with Parliamentary control. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, who will answer a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u64	Honourable Members, the sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 5 to 11 February 2016 A question has been received by the MPs Stefan Kenov and Chavdar Peychev to Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, on a policy regarding the economic growth of the country in 2016. It should be answered in the plenary session on 19 February 2016. There has been a request from the MP Yavor Haytov to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, on the implementation of Decision No 42 of 26 February 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the adoption of a Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018 in the part of Chapter Eight. The reply should be made in plenary on 19 February 2016. An inquiry was received from the National Representative Ivan Stankov to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, on the Strategy and Policies of the Ministry of Environment and Waters to reduce harmful emissions from the sector. The reply should be made in plenary on 19 February 2016. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Emil Raynov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Dimitar Tanev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - additional information to a written response from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva to a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on three issues by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to ten questions by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question by the MPs Miho Mihov and Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a request from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u65	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u66	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u67	Dear President of the National Assembly, in the manner of conduct, because you returned one of my questions to the former Minister of Education Todor Tanev in connection with the policy of the Ministry of Education for the creation and formation of a Bulgarian national cultural identity of each Bulgarian citizen as part of the world cultural wealth of the students of young Bulgarians from the first to the third grade. This, in my opinion, is one of the main aspects of the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science to create and form such a Bulgarian cultural identity. Because whether we like it or not, we become part of the global world, when the borders will disappear and will remain only Bulgarian cultural identity, as in Bulgaria have their identity people Dobrudjani, Thracians, Macedonians, Boyars from Tarnovo and so on, not to list them. I think that's a basic question, because I'm going to argue with something else. The economy, as bad as it is, is gonna get better sometime. Education, health care, construction, all this is repairable. But education, if we destroy it now and create nihilism in people, Madam President, there is a great danger that the Bulgarian nation will disappear. Because the Bulgarian survived 500 years of Turkish slavery only thanks to his education. And when he was banned from studying, he studied in cell schools created by our monasteries, by our Orthodox Church. Therefore, I believe that my question has been returned inaccurately, and you have said that this is a question. Of course, you've gone wrong from where it's written............................................................................................ [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because I wanted to be more specific in order to emphasize to the then Minister what exactly should be answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u68	Mr. Anastasov, from both your and other parliamentary groups, there are questions asked to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the curriculums and content of the students' textbooks from I to XII grade. In your exhibition, as it has also shown here in this Chamber, you are confusing the determination of the actuality of the specific questions you are asking whether they constitute a comprehensive policy. Having been given an instruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you could either submit as a question what you specifically pose as a question or challenge the letter you received from me within three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u69	Just like I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u70	You have not done such a challenge. The Conference of Presidents competent under our Rules of Procedure to deal with your objections has not been referred to by you with your disagreement, but I have patiently waited for you in the procedure in the manner in which you are conducted to present to the Chamber your views and in a situation where you have not exercised your rights under the Rules of Procedure before the Presidential Council to examine your objections under these rules. There is no obstacle to asking questions today if you really care about their answers. If all you care about is going into a debate with you about what's what, you've achieved your goal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u71	I've made them into questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u72	Okay, so you've taken into account and accepted what I wrote in the letter. Thank you. Tomislav Donchev will be the first to respond to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov concerning expenditure incurred by the Republic of Bulgaria on the suspended South Stream project. Mr. Slavov, please proceed with the first question to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Our question with colleague Dimitrov concerns the expenses incurred by the Republic of Bulgaria on the suspended project South Stream. Isn't it time to look for a way for these costs to be reimbursed to the state and to the Bulgarian taxpayer? Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, many times over the past year senior representatives of the Kremlin administration said the South Stream project is stopped by Russian side and will not be implemented. As a result, a number of state and foreign companies involved in some form in the implementation of the project have made claims or even taken legal action against the leading company in the project by the Russian side, including against its subsidiaries. For example: according to publicly available information, the Italian company, which had to take part in the construction of the underwater part of the project, has filed an arbitration claim against the Russian side for more than 700 million. Euros. The Republic of Bulgaria, for its part, was in good faith fulfilling its obligations under the signed contract and made a lot of costs directly or through state-owned companies. For example, the Bulgarian Energy Holding deposited nearly 200 million in the subsidiary company in Bulgaria, which it received in the form of a loan. The latter, of course, provides for the payment of an annual interest rate of nearly 5%. In addition, a number of state institutions have taken action, for example, in the establishment of waitouts, as was on the beach of Pasha dere. in Varna, alienation of state and municipal land, as did the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In the light of the foregoing, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please answer the following question: What is the total amount of the costs and investments made by the Bulgarian State directly or through state or municipal companies under the suspended South Stream project and is a claim being made for their recovery against the failing country directly or in the face of the responsible state company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u74	For an answer Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u75	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen Dimitrov and Slavov! The main costs incurred by the Bulgarian side of the project "South Stream" are carried out through the joint project company "South Stream" Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH), which owns 50% of the capital, and the other 50%. The money provided by the Bulgarian side was paid by way of a contribution to the capital of the project company by a Bulgarian shareholder, respectively, of the shares owned by it. Capital increases are the source of funding for the investment and administrative business of the project company. For the period from 2010 until now BEH, as a money joint shareholder in the South Stream project, has participated in the capital increases of the project company South Stream, which are public, given their entry in the Trade Register. From the same place you can see that the contributions vary. They were lower between 2010 and 2013. The biggest contribution was made on 18 August 2014 and was worth nearly 191 million. lv. The total contribution made amounted to 198 million. 803 thousand. BGN, while it is appropriate to note that in the fund "Reservations" of the South Stream "Bulgaria" JSC were imported 24 million. 432,000. lv. The funds representing the capital increase of the project company of 18 August 2014 were submitted to BEH under a loan contract of 3 June 2014 and intended purpose. The latter may be used only for the purpose of making a contribution to the project company's capital in order to meet the costs provided for in the relevant annual budget. As of the moment of the ambiguity concerning the project relating to the statements made by the Russian party at the end of 2014................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. With regard to the action you have referred to against Gazprom, an important distinction should be made by the Italian company "Sypem" because in this case it is an action brought by a contractor in a contract for construction and not a claim made by the co-sharers in the project. On the question: what are the intentions of the Bulgarian side regarding possible claims under the project "South Stream" you understand that despite the highest requirements for publicity and transparency, even from this high tribune I could hardly provide you with a comment for a number of reasons. First of all, we are partners with this company. Secondly, it is obvious that "South Stream" in its original dimensions is unlikely or quite unlikely to happen, but at the same time intense conversations are taking place. Even next week, we have another meeting with the European Commission on the construction of the gas distribution centre. As one of the sources of gas in it is commented one, two or more Russian pipes in the Black Sea. And thirdly, some of the costs incurred are not only costs, they are an asset, property rights, waitouts, detailed planning, other types of plans that could be used in certain scenarios in other initiatives related to the expansion or modernisation of the country's network.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u76	The line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u77	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! You have all seen that in another case Russia and Moscow brought a case against Bulgaria................................................................................................... In the case of South Stream, the Bulgarian country has been well-meaning, conscientious all the time, has fulfilled its obligations. That someone has not fulfilled European law is not our problem. The European right is for it to be respected and implemented. For his failure by someone, we cannot be held responsible. The logical question follows: is it not right, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that there should be consultations between the Member States concerned of the European Union on the South Stream and on joint actions and on the application of a common claim for missed benefits under this project? Isn't it right to approach this way, as Bulgaria has been brought a claim under the project "Belene"? I agree with you that this may not be and should not be an isolated position of Bulgaria only, but in dialogue with the European Commission and with the other affected countries of the European Union, it may be appropriate to seek common action and the interest of Bulgaria to be protected, as there are, in our view, lost benefits of the overall development of the project. A number of actions have been carried out by the conscientious Bulgarian country. Once again, the commitments we have made have been respected, and as it became clear that someone has failed to fulfil European law cannot be Bulgaria's problem. Are you considering, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a conversation involving the European Commission and other European countries that are in our situation, which also have potentially missed benefits, for a joint action against the failing country on this project, against the country that has failed to fulfil its commitments so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u78	A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u79	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you're going to make me answer with the finding I just made. The situation has different dimensions, first of all, and in our attempts to protect national interests to the maximum extent, different actions can be taken. Unfortunately, not all of them, at least at the level of......................................... are appropriate to publish from the stands, because these are actions that affect not only us, they affect other countries as well. You're right about the lost benefits, you're right about the expenses. As a matter of fact, to other unfortunate energy projects here, the situation is considerably better. In view of the fact that the company's capital as a total amount is 446 million. 470,000. BGN, of which a small part is spent, the huge part of the capital is available at the moment, unlike other projects where huge costs have been incurred, which at the moment cannot benefit us. The vast majority of all costs incurred is related to the training phase of EIA, property rights, waitouts and, of course, costs of maintenance of the company are a little over 55 million. You can see that in the end, a sum of the order of 386 million is still available. This makes the situation much easier compared to other projects. Purely legal technology, settling the relationship between partners in the company, is a completely different matter. By the way, when commenting on whether there are other Member States concerned, Bulgaria is the most affected. Bulgaria is most affected by the fact that it is first on the track and given the fact that from a purely political point of view it proved to be at the epicenter of events, apart from purely economic damage. I was just commenting that in parallel with all the other actions we're ready for, that's all I can say, nothing more, the effort is, [[The President signals that time has run out]] , as this project, which in its original form did not correspond to European legislation, to remove the rational grain, in which there is economic logic, without conflicts with European legislation, and to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Donchev, for your participation in the current parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of Ms. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. General questions will be the first to ask the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva about the new textbooks for I and V grade and the overall strategy for the new curriculum. A question from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov about the curriculums and programs from I to XII grade. Question from Mariana Boyadzhieva on the serious financial situation of Veliko Tarnovo University "Cyril and Methodius." Then we'll go back to our history and literature programs. Basically, these are the questions to Mrs. Kuneva. We're listening to the first question. Mr. Mirchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Kuneva, the challenges facing you are enormous, given the new reforms in the educational system. We are witnessing in recent months of scandals caused by these reforms caused by the new Law and the false reaction of the office you have already led. Teachers and parents are worried about when the I and V class textbooks will be ready and what their quality will be. This concern is even greater given the current assessment of the poor quality of textbooks and the serious errors in them. Whether the textbooks are good or bad depends on how society feels about education and education reform. And when it becomes clear from the official and informal statements of publishers, former ministers and other state officials that the deadline for drawing up new textbooks is really insufficient and that the procedure for their approval simply cannot be implemented for the months that remain until the end of the school year 2016, even in the morning Mr. Daniel Valchev said that purely technically to prepare quality textbooks for next year is almost impossible, my question is what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education? What does the Ministry of Education and Science intend and what will the Ministry of Education and Science take to address the problems of issuing new quality textbooks for I and V class? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u82	For the answer, Mrs. Kuneva. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva and Mr. Mirchev, because the question is from both of you, I will address you so, thank you for your question. Without any exaggeration I would say that this is the issue of the greatest urgency in the system of school education and is the most important task in the work of the Ministry of Education and Science at this time. A few minutes ago, my second meeting with publishers on this matter literally ended. The I and V Class textbooks, together with the curricula and state educational standards, are the three topics to which I have almost fully dedicated my first days as Minister of Education and Science, in fact, one week since I entered the Ministry as his minister. We are all aware that they are directly linked to the entry into force of the new educational law, which is waiting, which opens up new opportunities, and which I dare say is liked. Before I assess the situation, however, I would like to introduce you to the facts as I found them. In order for there to be no doubt in the objectivity of what has been said, I will also announce several dates. The working groups for drawing up the projects of the 19 State Educational Standards, which the Law provides, were formed by the Minister's orders of 6, 7 and 8 August 2015. The Law was adopted on 30 September and was promulgated on 13 October last year. Three of the standards were established on November 30th. These are the most important: for the curriculum, for the topic we are debating, of course, for general education and for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. They are required to start the procedure in new textbooks. The courses for I and V classes were established on December 17th. These are the things that we have as facts and that we have in our hands. The procedure for textbooks was opened by order of the Minister on 8 January 2016. The deadline for submission of draft textbooks is seven months, according to the Law, and it expires on 9 August. Those are the facts. I draw attention to the last term of August 9th, for publishing companies, and every individual author can submit projects of textbooks up to now. It is also important to recall that the Minister's order has been appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court. Let me say the steps we have to go through, according to the Law and the Book Ordinance, to get to the end point, to imagine it developing over time. The final stage is delivering new textbooks to school. The opening of a procedure was done; the submission of the projects by the admission to evaluation committee; the evaluation of the projects by the evaluators from higher schools, academics from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, experts, teachers for compliance with the educational standards; open session for the announcement of the general evaluation; the order for the schools in which the subject and period for distribution are taught; the order for organizing, conducting and evaluating the suitability for teachers; the sending of the publishing houses of the books bodies; the assessments by the teachers for the suitability of the project; the exposition of the grades by the RI (region inspection of education) and finally the Ministry of Education and Science; the issuing of the Minister's order for the approved textbooks are applicable; these are all those who comply with the required (the educational standard) and for which are not less than 50% of all teachers in the country, this is the new in the Law, which took part in the evaluation, have been said to be applicable. Next, the list of approved textbooks should be included; the choice of schools for a specific textbook on objects; requests for the required number; printing of requested editions and deliveries to schools. In these stages, I do not include possible appeals that will further delay the procedure, as well as the procedure under the Public Procurement Act for larger schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u84	Madam Minister, one minute more...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u85	But I have two questions, joined together, and so, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u86	No, no! That's only the first one. The others will have this opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u87	Okay, in a word. Thank you. I'm sorry, but I really want to give you full information. I will request a meeting next week with the Committee on Education and Science to discuss the different exit options. I hope that in good faith they will be found. Two things I will not allow: chaos and uncertainty in the system, starting with some textbooks and continuing with others is unacceptable, and I will not allow any Bulgarian child to be without a textbook on September 15th. Really, it's a difficult situation. I propose that we unite ourselves in finding a solution and, with more kindness, make sure that this nice Law starts to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u88	Thank you. You have the floor for a line. Mrs. Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, you really appreciate the extreme weight and urgency of the question that we have put to you, but I will remind again today that, as MPs from BSP left Bulgaria, we have repeatedly warned about what the new Preschool and School Education Act will lead to, including many times asking Professor. Tanev about what you mentioned today about the work of these working groups and committees, which had to work out state standards. The fact that the public is offered standards per piece, not in a package, before the third and fourth grade curriculums are ready, in this case, commenting on the fifth grade textbooks shows that we do not treat children and students responsibly enough. A fifth grade textbook cannot be made without knowing what are the concepts used by the students in the third and fourth grade. You cannot force the publication of a textbook on one subject without it being clear what knowledge will build on the textbook and how it will reflect the inter-frontal links. If you believe that this can be done in seven months, as it is by law, at a sufficiently good level, we believe that responsibility should be borne by the Ministry and by you personally for the quality and not for it to be transferred, if this is necessary in time, on the authors and publishers. As a specialist, I know and I suppose your associates have told you that, for example, in Germany, the deadline for preparing a good textbook is between 18 and 24 months, while in Bulgaria this should be done in 7 months. The great ambition is to prepare the textbooks by September 15th. You indicated the deadline 8 August for them to be written, but for less than a month the following should happen: by 15 September the experts and teachers to evaluate them, then the Ministry to approve them, then samples of the textbooks to go to the school to choose the teachers by which of the numerous options they will teach. How this will happen between August 8th and September 15th is very difficult to accept. Finally, until now, the deadline for choosing only for teaching was three months. We've heard from your predecessor that you can learn by a fifth grade textbook and use the seventh grade textbook. This is ridiculous! Do not allow it, because this will bring down the authority of the educational system in the eyes not only of the parents, of the experts, but of all Bulgarian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u90	Thank you. Would you like a douche? No, thank you. We'll get to the other questions. They are of overlapping content. Question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva on the overall strategy for the new curriculum for students. And also a question from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov about the curriculums and programs from I to XIII grade for the academic year 2016/2017. Questions will be asked consistently. Then you will have the opportunity, Madam Minister, for a general answer. Mrs. Boyadjieva will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the presentation by the Ministry of Education and Science of the projects for study plans for the second, sixth and eighth grade has sparked in the Bulgarian society a discussion which raises important questions that discussing study plans per piece poses serious risks, not giving an idea to the Bulgarian society about the full amount of knowledge, skills and competences that students will receive consistently in the different degrees of their education. When discussing the 7th grade curriculum on one or another subject and it is not clear what the curriculum will contain, for example, for the 7th and IXth grade, comes to a public storm, which we have witnessed in the previous weeks. Our question to you is this: when will the Ministry of Education and Science be able to offer all the curricula for the different secondary education classes to have a real and accurate idea of what and how will the Bulgarian students learn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Mr. Anastasov, please come in and formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister of Education, a serious public debate on Bulgarian education has been heated in the public domain in recent months. For me, as a Bulgarian who is proud and loves Bulgarian culture, language and writing, which we have given to over 150 million people on earth, it is a worrying fact that in the programmes from I to the 13th grade there are unacceptable changes that try to correct history and Bulgarian literature, with the motive to stay up to date. It is unacceptable because the covenants of Bulgarian writers and revolutionaries are authentic today. It is absurd to question the terms of Turkish rule and the terms of the word. The Bulgarian Renaissance, their contemporaries characterized the treatment of Bulgarians during this period precisely as Turkish slavery and yoke. It is unacceptable for Bulgarian citizens to want the relocation, reduction or elimination of Revival works and poems, I refer mainly to the works of Dobri Chintulov, Paisii Hilendarski, Luben Karavelov and a number of other Bulgarian revivalists. It is unacceptable to dig up the bones of the wrestlers for freedom from Turkish slavery with such proposals. Remember, Madam Minister, history is also a memory with this act, if you try to do it and create part of the growing generation of nihilists, it will not be forgotten by the people and it will go against you, as it has gone against anyone who has performed foreign orders. The main task of the Bulgarian education system is to create proud and dignified Bulgarians - I think that here in the hall, no one should doubt about it - and not Bulgarians who will be ashamed of their homeland. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam Minister, try to be Anastasia Dimitrova and Rada Missina, not Kiriak Stefchev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u94	Please ask the question. Is that the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u95	My question is: what are the educational plans and programs of the Ministry of Education and Science and do you intend to continue the so-called "reform" in secondary education started by Prof. Todor Tanev and his team, and some clerks, were they also directorates of the directorate? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's the question. Don't be afraid of that question! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are not Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u96	We're gonna cut back on the duvet, since it's only been half a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u97	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u98	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u99	Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister of Education! You know, my line in the way of conduct is challenged not because I listen to colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, who within a month speak alah-blah under the new Law [[BSP LB]] , the same written things that are just so inadequate and do not comply with the principles and philosophy of the Law, which go by the media and tell ridiculous and unpleasant things that have nothing to do with the norms that this Law offers. In that sense, I beg you, when they speak... You made a remark to the Minister, why not make a remark to the people of BSP left Bulgaria, who delay the time because they demagogize and because they listen to them all over Bulgaria?! This demagogy, this manipulation listens to it people and I ask them when they speak from BSP left Bulgaria, close the TVs because they say the wrong things. [[Applause from GERB and RB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u100	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u101	Let me answer Mrs. Dukova. If there is one in this procedure, I will give the floor to other MPs. Mrs. Dukova, you can rightly claim that Mr. Anastasov delayed the time to ask the question by 30 seconds. I gave him a signal because he used all of the two minutes to motivate his question and started asking it after the time ran out. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] I warned you that I would cut back on his cue time for 30 seconds and that you would have no grounds, I hope, for claims. And what is the content with which the MPs ask their questions, I am not in the role of censorship so that I can tell them how to motivate the question. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And I didn't do that to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u102	You're calling them to stick to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u103	Yeah. And I urge you to stick to a language that does not take down, anyway, trusting Parliament. I won't repeat any of your words. I don't think you're interested in urging people to turn off the TVs because they won't turn them on when someone else is talking. First Mr. Zablyanov, then I will give you the floor. And for Mrs. Kuneva, I gave her two more minutes to speak, so in this regard I have not been partial to any of the different speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Let us use the procedures as they are written in the Rules for what they are written about. Mrs. Dukova's exhibition concerned essentially the political positions of representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and called for them not to be able to be expressed on the means of information. [[Replicate from the National Representative Snezana Dukova. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Mrs. Dukova, Mr. Chairman, my request is as follows: when using the procedures laid down in the Rules, for other purposes and with other content, as was the case with the GERB MP, please be interrupted in due course, because this provides for the Rules itself, and to be limited only to the framework of the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u105	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I think the objections from different countries only prove that my actions were neither incorrect nor biased. Mr. Georgiev, are you on the same subject of how you conduct yourself?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u106	No, in a different shade.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u107	In a different shade, but for the same thing, here you go. Because in a moment they'll be on the other side and in another shade they'll comment on what you're saying. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u108	Okay. Dear Mr. President, my protest is against the fact that you do not actually follow the parliamentary control procedure and do not allow for the development of a question, you give the opportunity to declare. Please follow the Rules strictly and give colleagues the opportunity to argue their questions, but to ask a question rather than finally say something simply to suppress the procedure and be able to comply with it formally. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Because you yourself have made a remark to colleagues yourself that they do not adhere to the procedure, make speeches instead of questions, but, unfortunately, this is what you do to colleagues who do not belong to the left spectrum in the Chamber. Please stick to procedures. If we're going to make declarations, you know we're always prepared. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Yeah, I have no doubt about the last one. I am using this case to call on Members of the National Assembly to motivate the issue, not simply in a subject that is relevant to the matter, to say all possible things. But in a different way, I will not be as extreme as you call me, because there was a time when it was said what was right and wrong to speak. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now the speakers will have to be responsible for their words and have the freedom to judge what they say from the stand, as long as it does not violate the Rules. With this we can move on to Minister Kuneva's response. I'm sorry that the conversation has strayed beyond what you should be talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u110	And so on the questions I've been asked. Before answering these questions, however, I was impressed when I read them that we needed a clarification. Don't think of it as a bouquet eating and a typical lawyer's reaction. Yes, I really hold on to the exact legal wordings, but this is about concepts that have different content. You're talking about study plan and study programs. These are actually the two very important concepts in the Law. From the way the question is asked, I think you had rather an idea about the curriculum than the curriculum. However, for completeness to say that the curriculum determines the distribution of the classes of the different classes of classes, stages, degrees of education, or what we call the "horarium." The curriculum, in turn, is a table I carry with me, I can show it to you as the hours are distributed by types of preparation. The new curriculum has been established as an educational standard by Decree No 4 of 30 November 2015 and it is from 1st to 11th grade................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is not necessary for all twelve standards to enter into force now in order to be able to talk about a curriculum. One of the standards is related to the curriculum, and it, fortunately, has been adopted, but we will, of course, do everything possible to adopt the academic standards by the middle of the year. One of them is delayed, by law is adopted next year, so I think you can trust me with an organization created, don't worry. In general, the hours are three groups: mandatory, elective and optional I return to the program again, and it is through the electoral and faculty that school policies can be made according to desires, needs, opportunities, and this is the new logic laid down in the Law. Frankly, I like her very much. This means seeing the child when you try to make your time interesting, knowing what kind of eyes will look at you in class and what these children need to hear. I believe that what you have done here in this House with the Law is very good in this regard. Only in brackets I was interested, 90 opposition proposals were included between first and second readings. I think this should unite the room, not separate it. Under the Law, the new study plan enters into force, and this is part of the Law, let me say. The following year he entered for the first and fifth grade, and the next year he entered for the second, sixth and eighth grade. To date, the curricula have also been presented. Once again: there are established programs for the first and fifth grade and it is on their basis that the procedure for textbooks is announced. On your question of public discussion for the second, sixth and eighth grade, yes, such a discussion begins. On the 15th is actually the first such discussion, we are in process. Is there a comprehensive concept of programs? Yes, the Ministry of Education and Science developed the whole package of programs from first to twelfth grade, but only the ones I mentioned were announced. A few words about the logic on which the programs are drawn, and here I am already stepping on what the experts have said. The projects of the new programs are based on several situations. First, the national traditions. Analysis from national external assessments and state maturity exams. This is the second one which students are better off with and what they are not. The results of international research also help us.. PISA, which is the most popular, but also.. Pearl City Ms.. which is actually a study of students' skills to read and consider....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The European reference framework for key competences for lifelong learning follows. I think that's a very good and patriotic thesis. The focus is on the results. A common European language framework. The learning of a foreign language. Next.. Research and successful literacy models, e.g. the sequence of letters. You know very well that thanks to new studies in the field of teaching, now in the first grade is determined on the basis of the frequency, linguistic and semantic principle. The program requires the rotation of vowels and sonors according to the frequent use in children's vocabulary, unlike the current program, where the vowels are first studied and then agreed. The idea of being able to make the child scream as quickly as possible. Not to pass all vowels first, and to be able to spell only........................................................................................ The idea of lightening the programs. I think a lot of the ladies in this House will agree with this example. The idea of lightening is not programs. Some topics move up or down in terms of age or go into profiled preparation. The principle is adopted that the new knowledge is 60% of the total volume. So far, there is no clear distinction, and in a much higher percentage, new knowledge dominates, leading to the rush of study material. More interface relationships are being made. For example, if in the fifth class of "History" is studied "Praistory" and "antiquity", according to the Bulgarian language and literature is bet on mythological presentations "Folklore" and that is why the Botevo poem "Haidutti" is located there. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I will not go into greater detail, but, of course, drawing up is a matter of expertise that the Ministry of Education and Science has dealt with. I will just finish with the schedule: on the 15th, 19th and 20th February we will hold a national meeting on the programmes in Vratsa, Sliven and Sofia. They will include teachers, public figures, politicians, especially for Bulgarian language and literature and history for sixth grade and we will give a clear and understandable whole package of programs with an explanation for their logic and important changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u111	Thank you. Let's finish, because in a moment, someone will object that I tolerate the coalition partners of some of the parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u112	I think when it's interesting, no one objects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u113	I'm not sure. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u114	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! You said something very interesting that over 90 are the proposals between first and second readings under the Preschool and School Education Act of all groups. I want to tell you that the percentage of accepted ones other than the importer's texts border on the percentage of zero. It's not quite zero, but it's bordering, especially from the opposition. Many of our considerations were expressed in view of the Law, and we are witnessing that we were evidently prophets at that time. I'll tell you what this is about. We have witnessed the scandals of recent months, as we have spoken in the previous question, which refers to plans, to programs, to textbooks. One of our wishes in viewing the Law was at least from your predecessor to have some drafts of these state educational standards so that we could see the integrity of the Law, as in many ways the new Law is hollow and its activities will be determined precisely by these state educational standards. You can see that when they walk in on a piece and we don't know what the next one's gonna be, the scandals are gonna go off. All of a sudden, it disappears, for example, the Slavic history of Bulgaria, and there is no telling where it will appear. In order to see the overall logic in implementing the Law, everything had to be ready. Then there wouldn't be, as I said, such frappany examples as with the Slavic History. When we adopted the Law, Minister Tanev did not object to it, and when he spoke in the Chamber, his colleagues applauded. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When the Law began to be implemented, the first problems we had warned about appeared. With your authority, if you do not make decisions to support the postponement of the Law by one year, to correct its mistakes and create quality standards and hence programs and textbooks, you will find yourself in the same scenario as Prof. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u116	I expect your position on the above proposal to postpone at least one year in order for the Law to enter into a more qualitative version.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u117	Thank you. Mr. Anastasov also has the opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my line relates precisely to changes in the program. It is currently visible in the files for the sixth grade in the Ministry of Education and Science that there is a Slavic history of Paisiy of Paisiy, where you are your true love folklore, the wind of Eci Balkan moaning of Dobri Chintulov. They are present in the tenth grade. The story Slavic Bulgarian is present by Paisii Hilendarski. In the 2016 project, the file says that there is no longer a Slavic history in the sixth and tenth grade, and they will all be in the ninth grade as well as a Wind Eci, Balkan moaning and so on. The question is: in one class, if only a Slavic history is studied, it is not the same when it is studied both in sixth grade and in tenth grade, when it is confirmed in the minds of the children. The more Bulgarian national identity is created, the stronger the Bulgarian spirit will be. Let us not forget, I stress once again the education is what saved the Bulgarians during the 500-year-old Turkish slavery. And there should be no doubt on the left, neither on the center, nor on the right. I'm done in a minute and thirty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u119	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Mrs. Minister, please come in for four minutes for the back of the lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u120	I think it's a mix between statements and questions, so I'm also going to make a mix between statements and answers. About what power he's doing. I represent before you by your will the executive authority, which means that I am obliged to comply with the Law. Believe me, I will not give you in any way any reason to think that the entire Ministry, which I am in charge of, myself, the political cabinet, we have spared a second of our time to make the Law implemented and implemented. That's my job! I think the longer we delay things, the harder they get. Yeah, every beginning's hard. Yes, I know the Ministry will work with enormous powers, with great mobilization and great motivation. One thing we, as politicians, quite often miss out on is that every undertaking has success when people are motivated. A word in this direction can literally create reality. I'm waiting to hear that word about motivation from you. I am waiting to hear: "You can, we will help you, things must go because this Law is necessary for Bulgaria. He has been voted here in this House. Whatever disagreements there have been, it is a Bulgarian law and I think it is very patriotic to obey our laws because it means to respect the rule of law. On the subject of the curriculum, I think I've said enough. On the subject of programs in Bulgarian language and literature (BEL) in sixth grade solutions can be sought in the following directions: - Do you give the work to be specifically referred to the expected results of.. History and civilizations..................................................................................................................................................... - You're good to bet on a seventh grade study; - The works of Chintulov studied so far in the sixth grade, where are your true love people's and Wind Echi to be studied as a compulsory program of music in the sixth grade, while Dobri Chintulov in literature to be studied with the proposed new work. I think we should take a look at the entire program and see how the children understand and confirm what they've learned. Therefore, there is no need to subtract from the context of the proposed programs one or two sentences. Anyone can do that, but it's not fair. That's not how you do it when it comes to education. I said I would also say words that are more like a political declaration: do not stumble the Law! There's no point in that, you're not doing good. Let's see, I'll come to you and report to you. I hope to be invited to the Education Committee soon. I'll tell you honestly where we are, what we can expect, what we can do. But think positively! Think positive, because that's really what's important. If we sow winds, we will reap storms, and we must not. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u121	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva on the difficult financial situation of Veliko Tarnovo University. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. Veliko Tarnovo. Mrs. Boyadjieva, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the subsidy of Veliko Tarnovo University. Valentine's Day. In 2016 Cyril and Methodius have been reduced by 1 million. 130,000. lv. This puts the university in serious financial condition. The fact that nearly 2 million were invested should also be taken into account. lv. to repair and public-state property to ensure the learning process. The funding of the higher school, according to the management, will reach for its maintenance by October 2016. This can only be avoided if the State, apart from the subsidy, returns and the 2 million invested. lv. for capital expenditure, so that the university can pay off companies that have done repairs and are looking for their money in the past years. One reason for the serious financial situation of Veliko Tarnovo University is that the state grants for capital expenditure only one lev per square meter, which makes a total of 86 thousand. lv. for a year. The amount is extremely insufficient for urgent repairs. For this reason, the university has spent many years on its own money and in many times more than the state has given to maintain public-state property. Because of the reduced admission of students, however, this is now impossible. It is also important to say that the management of Veliko Tarnovo University has already put in place measures to get out of the financial collapse and the work is optimized; there is also a merger of small groups and closure of ineffective specialties; there is an increase in the state contract under Master's programmes, which are in regular form of training; there will be also training in bachelor programmes for foreigners entirely in English and Russian. My question to you is: what actions will you take to enable the University of Veliko Tarnovo to normally perform its training functions for students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva, just in time. Madam Minister, please answer the question of the government's commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u124	Thank you. I will also follow your good practice and fit in time. Yes, I am well aware of the problem of the financial situation of Veliko Tarnovo University. I know the Rector wants to meet with the Ministry's leadership, and I know why. The funding of state universities is determined in accordance with principles and rules of the Law on Higher Education (LAF). You're absolutely right. The amount of the confirmed annual transfer under the budget of Veliko Tarnovo University for 2016 is 9 million. 556 thousand. 100 BGN and compared to the previous year the amounts have been reduced, as you quite rightly mentioned. The capital expenditure provided for under the University's budget for the last three years amounts to 258 thousand. BGN 351 and in the report on the cash execution of the budget the funds reported for the last three years amount to 3 million. 603 thousand. BGN 305. What can the Ministry of Education and Science (MON) do? For capital expenditure 2016 we have 2 million. Seven hundred and fifty-five Within the framework of this resource, the needs of major repairs and acquisition of fixed tangible assets of nearly 400 minor managers with a budget of higher education, vocational and special schools and so on should be ensured and there is no possibility of providing additional funds for capital expenditure on the budget of the higher school at the expense of the budget of the Ministry of Education. In June 2015, a letter was received from the Rector, whom I have met. A written request has been made from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Finance. A reasoned response from the Finances is received that interest-free loans can only be granted to senior authorising officers with a budget and public schools have the status of secondary authorising officers. The draft amendment and supplement to the Higher Education Act, which I assume you will soon vote in the Chamber, is intended to provide funds from the Ministry of Education budget to finance the implementation of consolidation and optimization programmes of state universities developed by them and adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. I remain actively involved with this problem because, without a doubt, securing the training of students at Veliko Tarnovo University is a priority task. I know you have great specialties and we rely on the specialists who are trained there. That's all I can tell you right now. Indeed, more than applying the Law and expecting the new amendment of the Public Health Act, I cannot offer you as a reason for optimism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva. There's no money yet, but let's see what else you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your commitment, but unfortunately, no optimism you give us in the answer. There is extremely great concern not only of the management of Veliko Tarnovo University, of the lecturers, of the students, but of the entire public in Veliko Tarnovo. I would like to remind you once again that it is actually money spent in a previous term, and now the management of Veliko Tarnovo University is really already... I have announced what measures it has taken for savings, for restructuring, but this will not be enough to overcome this shortage. Perhaps you have been informed, but I would also like to report to the people who are listening to us that the university has actually already had to withdraw credit in order to be able to pay salaries. The amount of remuneration per year is 2.7 million. BGN, and the shortage per month amounts to about 200 thousand. lv. One of the alarming information that already appears is that perhaps the university will not be included in the Operational Program, which was one of the hopes to increase the funds it will have. I do not know what you are telling us about the upcoming changes in the Law on Higher Education and consolidation, to what extent in this case we can talk about Veliko Tarnovo University, which I think is a university with opportunities, with a sufficiently large number of students studying in it from all over the country. Here we are talking about a problem which has been inherited from the previous university leadership and which is extremely difficult for the university to deal with on its own. Therefore, not only I, asking the question to you, but the university management has sought support from the state at the highest level. As far as I know not only in the face of the Ministry of Education and Science, but also in the face of the Council of Ministers. I remain hopeful that opportunities will be sought to help Veliko Tarnovo University.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. I'm guessing you're not gonna use the back. [[Reply from Minister Meglena Kuneva.]] We are continuing with the current topic of the history and literature curriculum two issues by the MPs Mihail Mikov, Valeri Zablyanov, Zhelyo Boychev on the policy of the preparation of the history and literature courses for secondary education. The other question is from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Cornelia Ninova on the projects for general education programs in literature and history. The first question will ask and motivate Mr. Zablyanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, MPs! The question that we are putting with Mr. Mikov and Mr. Boychev concerns the overall policy of the government in the preparation of the history and literature curriculum and I will now try to clarify what we want to ask. So far, in your answers, much of the approaches have been affected and a lot of facts have been presented, but what we believe is lost during all these years in the preparation of the programs, especially in history and literature, objects that are directly related to the formation of the national self-consciousness, not only to increasing knowledge, because, of course, for other subjects the approach should be different, are the product of, I say, clerical arbitrariness. Criminal arbitrariness, arbitrariness by non-governmental organizations! They, who knows why, have taken on themselves the idea to rewrite the Bulgarian history and Bulgarian literature, to say which authors should be studied and who should go in the background, explain, reject and challenge in any way the historical development of Bulgaria throughout the 20th century, to place such accents in the field of teaching literature and history, which will put the development of the Bulgarian nation in a completely different direction. Our question is related to the following: given the importance of this type of history and literature training, this is not only about obtaining certain knowledge, but also the nation's upbringing and insofar as the new Preschool and School Education Act does not allow... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u129	Form the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u130	...for this type of activity by the state, we would like to ask: does the government provide for the formation of broad public discussions and bodies? You have already informed that you have such an idea, but at the government level... about the preparation of programmes under these subjects? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u131	Thank you. By whom will the next question be asked? Mrs. Boyadjieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u132	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, our question, which you have, is very much overlaps with what has already been put, but I will formulate even more specifically. What is your position on the main these and the concerns expressed in the public discussion that arose regarding the projects for general education programmes in literature and history? Our question is asked as a result of the growing great concern in the Bulgarian society, which was seriously shaken by the standards and training programs proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science, which, as we have already pointed out, are presented not only in a piece, but which is more dangerous, are becoming a source of further erosion of our national identity. The Bulgarian children, at least according to the proposed projects, will complete their primary education in the seventh grade with limited knowledge of baptism and the creation of the Slavic alphabet. They will complete primary education without learning enough about Paisiy Hilendarski, Petko Slaveykov, Luben Karavelov, as for some of these authors it became clear for example they will study in music lessons. In the literature and history programmes, however, they will not be taught the age of the Bulgarian Revival or the importance of the Russian-Turkish Liberation War. Thus Bulgaria risks being the only EU member country for which its own cultural tradition, reflected in its literature and historical path, is defined as archaic and difficult to understand for the contemporaries. I wonder how the English would react if one of their politicians, as we have heard so far, and not just politicians, but experts, were allowed to say that Shakespeare is archaic? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Or, for example, the Germans, if someone decides to remove even a line from the Epos for the Nibellungi?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u133	Thank you. You have the floor, Madam Minister, for an answer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u134	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would especially like to address you, Mrs. Boyadjieva, because you expressed your concern directly to Mr. Zablyanov, you have no reason to talk in this way about the work on the program from I to XII grade in the Ministry. I agree that you can express your fears. Every Bulgarian, every parent, especially a person engaged in teaching, can and should do so, but when you speak from the National Assembly's stand how these new curriculums, the program puts second place patriotism, the knowledge of who we are as Bulgarians, it is already very dangerous. Please don't do this. Come as many times as you want us to talk to you, to meet you and the political leadership, and the team, to make sure that it is not so that you do not come out of the stands of the National Assembly and cause concern where it really is not. A while ago, I gave the example of learning music, hoping that he would give some more information. Perhaps in the first grade it is better to hear.. Stand up, stand up, strong Balkan and from there to begin to understand history than with a historical text that is related to dates and is more complicated for a child from the first grade. I'm just setting it as an example. Of course there will be dates, there will be events, of course there will be historical objectivity, but what is trying to make education reform is to comply with who the children are at school, how best they can be given a maximum range of knowledge. Look, patriotism is part of the Law. He's listed as a requirement in the Law, no expert will allow himself to skip it. I would like to say a few words to you specifically about the training in Bulgarian language and literature. The initial stage of the I to IV class aims to achieve a basic level of literacy. In other words, the works studied are a means, not an objective to achieve literacy. Therefore, they are not asked by the curriculum, but only referred to the thematic circles, such as the motherland, which gives teachers freedom to comply with the needs and opportunities of children. They can choose works for reading and use the examples set out in the program I am a Bulgarian child. One of the following classes may appear "Born speech" of Vazov and so on. Since you talked about the 7th grade, the primary educational degree is completed there and only Bulgarian literature is studied in this class. The same is the situation with the history and geography of Bulgaria. The logic here is very clear. We know that there are dropouts of students, although this is not desirable, but if it happens, the students will have studied Bulgarian literature, history and geography. Literature training in I and II High School class expands and complements mastered knowledge and acquired skills, and in the first stage the literature is chronologically presented, and in the second stage in thematic principle only Bulgarian authors, I stress. Only Bulgarian literature is studied in the X class again. The same is true again in history and civilization. A chronological principle of deployment of study content by class in the framework of general education in the V... X class has been adopted. This principle derives from the specifics of historical knowledge which is directly related to the sequence of historical events and processes and causal links. More than 50% of the educational content in junior high and first high school is about knowledge and forming a attitude towards our national history. Fifty percent! Come, we'll consider them with you to see that they are. Aim also for presenting the commitment between world and Bulgarian history, which for us will once again be a cause for pride. I can, of course, continue with more examples on this subject, but I would like to ask you something. When it is said that a material is being uploaded to the Ministry's website for discussion, it is a material for discussion. Tell me your opinion calmly. Tell me your opinion calmly! We'll hear it. Come to the working groups when it comes to standards. I proposed to everyone to open the working groups, not to be small and large, but to be a large working group on standards. But let's give each other peace of mind that when something comes up for discussion, it is not for the person who has shown what he thinks to be sanctioned for putting it on the table. In this way we will actually stop normal honesty between ourselves. Maybe somewhere isn't right what was suggested. Say it calmly, we'll hear you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now Mrs. Boyadjieva will make a reply to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I have always been aware when I speak from the National Assembly's stands of this great responsibility which we bear as MPs, but I believe that even before you took over the exceptionally responsible post of the Minister of Education, you have seen indeed the storm of public indignation on the occasion of the projects for the Literature and History curriculum. I believe that this should be appreciated by the politicians and by the Ministry of Education and Science and what you said about working groups, about the committees, perhaps you should really also assess what the quality of this work was, what was done and why this situation in Bulgarian society was actually obtained. Once again, in addition to proposing to postpone the Law by one year, we believe that these particular programs should be withdrawn, to prepare a public discussion about this, you also talk about the principles on which the literature, Bulgarian language and history programs are created in their study to attract major Bulgarian writers, teachers, psychologists, scientists, humanitarians, experts at different periods. Here, in my hands, I hold the declaration of the Union of Bulgarian Writers, which is quite indicative in this regard, for the great concern that Bulgarian artists also have. I'll only allow myself to read two lines. They insist on ensuring the mandatory predominance of native literature in the teaching tools and in education at all levels. In this useful work there is enough experience, and the results are tens of generations of literate and inspired Bulgarians, for whom artists such as Paisiy Hilendarski, Hristo Botev, Luben Karavelov and Ivan Vazov until today are great teachers of patriotism and national self-consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. The other line, Mr. Zablyanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! I did not get a convincing answer as to what the government's policy is in the preparation of the programmes, because there is obviously no such at the moment. Because the programs that have become the subject of tension in society and have led to the resignation of the former minister, there is no, as far as I understand, an idea to be reconsidered. I did not hear from Madame Deputy Prime Minister intention that these programmes, which caused public discontent, should be reviewed. Secondly, I did not hear any idea how these programs should be rewritten because the reaction was not only the mayors of GERB dressed in folk costumes and came to the Prime Minister. We've seen this play in other historical times. She doesn't solve the matter. The issue to be resolved is how the programs that affect the formation of the Bulgarian national self-consciousness to be the result of the efforts of a maximum circle of intellectual community in Bulgaria, how to attract these people, how to validate the programs. And what we are putting out in our question is that they cannot be subject to administrative irresponsibility, to be made by people who don't even know their names without simple publicity. And it doesn't make any sense after that to imitate publicity in some ready-made, downloaded matrices where there's nothing more to discuss. I believe that the declaration of the Union of Bulgarian Writers should be noted, I missed it in my previous speech, so I thank my colleague Mariana Boyadjieva. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I believe that we should listen to the voice of the Bulgarian intellectual and academic communities. If we don't do this thing, we'll end up in the same situation we found ourselves in just a few weeks ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u139	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for the replica of the lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u140	Mr. Zablyanov, I'll go straight to your question. First of all, of course, I would be happy if you would provide me with the Declaration of the Union of Bulgarian Writers, although if they want to, they can turn directly to me. But I can also get it through your parliamentary group. Of course their opinion means a lot. I want to provide every Bulgarian intellectual with an opportunity for a cultural and calm debate, because the intellectual is a person who can hear another opinion. I really hope we can see this thing through them, and if we can't see it, unfortunately, between us. What did I tell you? I told you, first of all, that there is a predominance of studying national literature and national history. It's proven. lt's proven with paper and pencil. Secondly, I told you that in these curriculas we have mandatory repetition, i.e. affirming the knowledge, which is very important so that children can really know about the history of Slavyanovaskayasia and not pass in five minutes and then forget about it after a few hours of study. Thirdly, I told you that teachers will have much more tools in their hands to make sure that they choose the most appropriate class and author for the relevant classroom and extracurricular activities, especially extracurricular ones. That's something new we need to use. Then the maximum circle of people attracted. You know, then I can tell you that if we let someone else decide, then, excuse me, what does the administration do? Then who would you be dissatisfied with? Against academics, professors who will express their opinion? No, that's not how it works. We must listen to them with depth and tranquility and then the legislative and executive power to make their decision. As I will consult with you, I will hear all of you, but in the end the signature will be mine and you will control me because you are here to control me and the other ministers something that I comply with. The programs, which, as you said, have been so raging to the spirits, are actually about a text that is in the section "Society and everyday life" and there are said these words about cohabitation of traditions. We've heard the opinion, we've heard that even in the sub-section, this has awakened such a strong public response. Okay, we get it! We understood what people said. It's a project! And I think we can show in our literature and many cases where humanity and tolerance, regardless of where they come from, are placed on a pedestal. I will not be tempted to quote Bulgarian works, because I think I will jump the clock. But I assure you, they also form the modern Bulgarian soul. We are a nation that can be arranged by talking about revival, about renaissance, to the highest achievements, because we put man and human at the heart of our relationship. I was very interested in listening to all your remarks. I would also like to invite you to meetings of the Commission if, of course, its President would allow us to continue this conversation. I am open to dialogue and to conversations with people you recommend and their inclusion in the working group. You know, the Ministry of Education and Science employs experts who can listen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u141	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That concludes the questions to Mrs. Kuneva. We will now move on to answers to questions to Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, and then to Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, he has asked for this exchange. Following a request from the National Representative Yavor Haytov on the implementation of Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the adoption of a Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 " 2018" in the part of Chapter 2. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current Bulgarian government has been functioning for 15 months and there is no doubt that it is the judicial reform that is lags behind the most. Practically, Bulgarian citizens feel nothing done for their benefit in order for the judiciary to function so that it is in the aid and support of Bulgarian citizens. But, like every government, the present has its own agenda. However, it is nice to implement it, of course, and Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva oversees the sector. The results there are heavy and weepy, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Basically, my question is this. Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted a Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018. Chapter 2 of this Programme is Chapter "Justice." It is a sign that precisely one of the top chapters, namely Chapter 2 is for the justice sector, because, obviously, the problems there are the most severe and the Bulgarian citizens really need recent, rapid and immediate changes to the laws in order to really feel the judiciary in their favor. My question, Madam Minister, to you is: what of these priorities and objectives has been implemented in the government's management program so far? It's been 15 months since it's been operational. What do you plan to do in the next calendar year I realize that you do not have this tolerance of 100 days, which is due to a newly elected minister and a newly elected government, simply because you are obliged to enter high speed and really start doing something in this sector. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u143	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Zaharieva, you have five minutes to answer, that is, more time since you are in the questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! You are absolutely right about the fact that this is one of the main goals and priorities of the government, which is expected from absolutely every Bulgarian citizen, from the Bulgarian companies, because no matter what origin the funds are, the companies work in Bulgaria and our European partners. Even in five minutes, the time is short, and the targets are in total 29. I will briefly present to you what has been implemented so far and will focus on what is coming next year. You all know, and I thank the National Assembly for adopting, by a large majority, the updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary and the roadmaps for its implementation, which detail the measures to be taken with regard to the objectives set out in the Strategy. At the end of last year, some of these measures were adopted and amendments to the Constitution were made. Several bills were also adopted last year relating to the European Protection Order and amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Changes were also adopted at the first reading of the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, which regulates the use of electronic surveillance in the implementation of the measure for inviolable arrest. You know that this will help very much and I really appeal and call for a second reading of the bill in the programme. In parallel, several electronic services were introduced, such as electronic evidence of criminality and control of consular services. The register of registrations with the register of special bets is to be merged, which will greatly alleviate the administrative burden on companies. This is a bill that is also at second reading in the National Assembly to take this action. However, the key for reforms is 2016 because, as has been reported in the Report, and is reported by us, yes, the strategic documents and measures set out in them are good, but it is time to make amendments to the laws that will lead to the real implementation of these measures. Not only because, in the Constitution, the Constitutional legislature put a really short deadline for adoption, not for submission, but for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary relating to the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges, but also because it is the structural Law on the Judiciary, this is the first and most urgent top priority of the Ministry of Justice this year. At the beginning of January, a Council was established to implement an updated strategy, which is one of the measures adopted by you, which was not established and which has already held its first meeting. It adopted a Report on what was done last year and created the working groups working on amending the Law on the Judiciary. At this meeting, an absolute unanimous decision was taken on a proposal from several members to divide the amendment of the Law on the Judiciary into two speeds. The working group was given until February 15th to complete the work on the first amendment, namely the division of the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges and the direct election of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council by the Magistrate Communities. The working group has been given a deadline by the end of April to complete the work on the Law on Career Growth, Attestation, Electronic Justice, Disciplinary Procedure, Court Reforms and Prosecutor's Office. In the rest the bill is extremely large and really quite structural. So right now we're working and we're at the finals on the completion of the first bill. The decree establishing the Council provides for and you have already received a call for each of the parliamentary groups to be able to broadcast one representative to participate in the Council meetings when debating issues relating to amendments to legislation. I thank the parliamentary groups, who have already sent a representative, pointed it out and these representatives may be at the level of MPs, may be the level of experts, this is entirely up to you. Some of them are already actively involved in the working groups. In addition to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, a very important task before the Ministry of Justice is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u145	You've got plenty of time left in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u146	In a nutshell, that's when I'll be heading towards closure. A working group on the Criminal Procedure Code has been established in the Supreme Court of Cassation, Supreme Prosecutor's Office, representatives of parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, which will be directly linked to speeding up the criminal process. In a very brief way, actions directly related to this are envisaged, as is the bill with the so-called "defense of victims of crimes'. The circle of the definition of victims of crime and their protection measures is extended. Apart from this work is extremely hard and here Bulgaria will boast that it will be one of the countries that will have such a special Law on Child Justice. You know that we also have a pilot decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Neshkov and others against Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u147	You have three more minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u148	There is a bill to amend and supplement the Law on Punishment and Detention; legal education, amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, which is in parliament and I hope also soon to be dealt with at second reading, related to the protection of debtors' rights and the Law on Commercial Law and the Penal Code relating to so-called company thefts. So that's what's coming this year. There's a lot more to it than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u150	But my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u151	You, because you are not used to these questions as a new minister, have three more minutes to answer the procedure. Now Mr. Haytov is entitled to two supplementary questions, then again Mrs. Zaharieva, so you will have the opportunity to say more than you have prepared. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your tolerance and support for the Minister. In fact, this is support for justice in our country.. something Bulgarian citizens have long wanted and long dreamed of. We have heard from your response that there are working groups working. That is, you have admitted that there is no ready final product to be imported, examined by us to improve the overall picture of the court proceedings in our country. I want to inform you that for 15 months we have been listening to working groups, committees, experts and so on, but something is not happening to have a ready-made constitutional Law on the judiciary or, most importantly, the law of appeal that we expect with interest. I'm going to ask you two additional questions. I am aware that within a total of the eight minutes provided for your answers, you cannot paint a complete picture of the current inaction. However, there must be a beginning! I would like to ask you: Should the number of administrative courts be reduced, which will also lead to financial savings both in the judiciary itself, in the budget of the independent judiciary, and thus eventually to reduce magistrates, judges and prosecutors? My second additional question in the common group on which you have started to inform us is: How do you feel that the special prosecutor's office and the specialized court can and should be charged, as well as the military prosecutors and the military courts, as well as the investigators in our country? The analysis, which is done annually for the workload of these units in the judiciary, shows that these units are significantly less burdened. I want to assure you that there are extremely good specialists working there and it is good to use their experience and knowledge by being fully charged with dealing with cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u153	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. I hope you're convinced that I'm tolerant of you, not just the minister. In view of the importance of your questions and the answers that the public expects, Madam Minister, you have three minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u154	Thank you. Pointing questions are a little out of the question that has been asked, but I will try to answer briefly. First of all, you're right that the military courts are a little busy. In the middle of last year, the Supreme Judicial Council put into analysis, which will end April of this year, precisely the work in military courts and prosecutors. In the power of the Supreme Judicial Council is the preparation of the so-called Road map, the new judicial map of the country, which has been waiting for many years. The fact is, however, that the analyses so far show much less than the lowest workload of all other courts. In 2014 the norm was 2.68 cases of a court-martial judge with average monthly workload in the district courts, with the exception of the District Court of Sofia, which is far more busy than the busiest district court, 34.63. You can see the big difference. Let's wait for the analysis of the Supreme Judicial Council. Like I said, they're under special surveillance. We're expecting the mid-year analysis. The road maps and the adoption of the judicial card are the responsibility of the Supreme Judicial Council, agreed with the Minister of Justice. With regard to the specialized court and prosecution, what is raised as a matter and an analysis is required by the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office is to analyze their work and workload. We look forward to this analysis. To finish: you're right, the expertise shouldn't be wasted. She needs to concentrate where she needs to. The Sofia District Court is charged with over 70 cases per judge per month, compared to under three cases per month at the Military Court. You see, it's a huge difference. However, this expertise should not be wasted, but concentrated where it needs to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u155	Thank you. Mr. Haytov, please express your attitude to the answers you received from the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased with you at least because it outlines the dynamics that are about to happen. However, I would like to assure you that I will follow very closely what you have stated that you expect as a final product from these working groups, committees, experts and so on, to finally receive your statement as a proposal for amendments to the laws submitted to the National Assembly. For my part, I would also like to express my disapproval of the fact that the Bulgarian magistrate is constantly subject to some type of observation. I recently learned that additional external experts will be invited to observe the Bulgarian judges, prosecutors and investigators. I believe that these are some of the most highly educated Bulgarian citizens. They entered the Faculty of Law with impressive knowledge. Legal education is one of the most difficult in our country. In practice, with the constant criticism of the judiciary, we have almost grieved these people by putting them under the heading of perhaps the most unsolicited, or the most corrupt, which I can assure you is not the case. On the other hand, we are now at the beginning of a calendar year. You created practice by welcoming politicians, even the prime minister of our country, at the Supreme Judicial Council. We, the MPs from the various districts of the country, with our presence at the annual reports and analyses of the district courts and district prosecutions can testify, on the one hand, respect for the magistrates and, on the other hand, hear clearly, specifically and on the spot what problems they have and what we can support and help them with. We do all this with the clear awareness that Bulgarian citizens need justice, justice, which, first of all, is available to everyone and finally to begin the famous judicial reform. You know, the adopted updated judicial reform strategy is actually like a wishing card: I wish you to be young, handsome, smart and so on and so forth, but there are neither deadlines, nor financial collateral, nor clarity about personnel growth and personnel security, and these are all important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u157	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. The next question to the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva is from the MP Tasco Ermenkov. The question to Mrs. Zaharieva is about the closure of the District Court of Kotel. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is a logical extension of the question Mr. Haytov had previously made. Even if we had agreed, it probably wouldn't have worked out that way. Perhaps, formally speaking, the issue is premature, because, in fact, there is no solution for closing the District Court yet, but in the public domain of the municipality is repeatedly repeated and suggest that soon the District Court will be closed. Given that, in addition to justice and intransigence, justice must also be accessible, I would like to point out to you that the Kotel region, Kotel Municipality, is one of the poorest in Bulgaria, with almost no livelihood. The closure of the District Court in Kotel and the relocation of some of the court procedures in Sliven will cause poor people to travel over 78 km to obtain justice, which will largely compromise one of the principles that Mr. Haytov talked about. In this regard, I ask you very much the question I am going to ask you right now to look at it conceptually in the future: Is there any reason for closing the Kotel District Court, other than financial? If there are any others, I'd be grateful to hear them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You yourself said in the development of the issue that there is no such proposal either from the Minister of Justice or from the Supreme Judicial Council. I would like to ask one thing: "Let us not create panic and tension before there is clarity on this issue, because a large part of the issues are related to possible upcoming closures or not of courts. One hundred and thirteen are the district courts in Bulgaria. An extremely uneven burden between them. I agree with access to justice in full, this under Constitution is an obligation of the state to ensure equal access to justice for all. On the other hand, the quality of the acts and of the administration of justice in one court have 20 cases of magistrate on average per month, and in another there are more than 75 of them you understand that we cannot guarantee the equal quality of the administration. Let us let the Supreme Judicial Council do the analyses and it has already begun the presentation at the regional courts level of the analyses and of the judicial card which it is developing. There is a debate and a public discussion at the moment. And believe me, neither the government, and I hope the Supreme Judicial Council, in whose responsibility it is to decide to close or create new administrative structures in the judiciary, will allow citizens to be deprived of access to justice. And let us not forget the development of e-Justice, something we are talking about and something that is a top priority. Thank God funding is provided and the first e-Justice project will be submitted on Monday. This will certainly help and reduce the price of all, whether or not they have courts in the area concerned. So we are also working on creating e-Justice and improving the quality of justice. But let's not hide behind the problem. The fact is that there is an extremely high imbalance in load; the fact is that the resulting expertise should not be wasted; and it is a fact that the judicial map of the country, which was created more than 60 years ago, should be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u161	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. In the answer you received that it will not be closed, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u162	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u163	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I received an answer that there is no decision whether to close or not, I have not received an answer that will not be closed. That's why my line is this. Far from the idea of causing panic. On the contrary, I'm trying to calm the people of Kotel, not something else. The second thing I want to say to you: indeed you are absolutely right in terms of having to save capacity and use rationally, but there are two ways to do this thing. If the judge is not sufficiently charged, he shall be sent to a court where there is greater load on the days in which he is not charged and not on the citizens of the municipality concerned to pursue the judge at the respective district court which will be further away from what he is in. True, in the first case a state resource from the Treasury of the Ministry of Justice and Finance of the Supreme Judicial Council is being saved, but all these costs are transferred to the ordinary citizen who is seeking justice and which, apart from being more difficult to access, will be more expensive for him. I therefore ask you very much, when you look at things in the Supreme Judicial Council and you as President, not only to the formal side how many cases there are and how many cases are distributed, but to see, respectively, the social and economic development of the region concerned and whether citizens in this region could afford to travel more than 80 km in order to obtain justice or any legal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u166	Thank you. I cannot make a commitment whether it will be closed or not because it is not the decision of the Minister of Justice or the government. I'm sure you're right, and that's exactly what the forensic analysis started. The burden is much later. The first analysis is population number, distance, accessibility, business. This analysis has already been done and this is the first step. Only after which was the analysis of the workload. You are right, there are mechanisms that could and should be thought of when the new judicial map is drawn so that citizens and businesses are not troubled. Of course, mostly financially. So I also talked about e-Justice, so there are other mechanisms to which judges could be transferred, but to leave part of the administration so that they do not travel. All this will be discussed in the development of the country's new judicial map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u167	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. The next question to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, is from the MP Dimitar Delchev on changing the judicial map in Sofia region. Here you are, Mr. Delchev, to develop your question, which is also the last to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u168	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs in September 2015, then acting Minister of Justice Hristo Ivanov said that a change in the judicial map is being prepared. I personally believe that a change in the judicial map is necessary, because according to statistics Bulgaria is among the countries of the European Union, which give the most money for justice and the number of magistrates per capita is one of the highest. That is to say, this implies the need for re-regioning. The point is, if this is said in general and without specifics and, as far as I hear from the previous question, this has led to many rumors. It is obvious that there are rumors in the Stara Zagora region, it is obvious that there are rumors in the Sofia area. In this regard, I would like to ask a specific question. In fact, I have received a lot of signals from people in Samokov Municipality who voiced concerns that closing the court there, which they have heard about, could lead to limiting their access to justice, as they do not know if the court is closed, how far they will have to travel. They have heard that there is an idea for the court to move, that is, after closing in Samokov municipality, to move to Ihtiman and there to unite, so to speak, the two district courts, which would mean that some of the residents will travel 80 km to obtain justice. In order to give them an exact answer, I need up-to-date information. That is why I am asking you: is the closure of the District Court in Samokov envisaged and, if so, what are the reasons for this decision and where will the proceedings be rerouted? And is the Ministry of Justice intended to change the judicial map of the territory of Sofia region, somewhere along the territory of Sofia area and what would this change be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u169	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Delchev, my answer is the same as the previous question. In the process of development is the judicial card and it is not developed by the Ministry of Justice, but by the Supreme Judicial Council. It's his duty. Two weeks ago, the public discussion began for the first time with the district courts and the presentation of the analyses prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council. I wasn't present, but there were colleagues of mine, and what I was informed about was that quite violent debates had been held. Of course, there's an analysis to be done, so I can't tell if it's predicted or not, because it's not ready yet. When it is presented to my attention and when it is clearly decided why, then I can answer. However, the answer is still: there is no way the road map can hinder access to the justice of citizens. But there doesn't have to be a court in their city. This can be done by other mechanisms. This can happen with desks where they can submit the documents and submit the inquiries until the introduction of e-Justice, which I hope will be absolutely functional in 2018, so that no matter where you are, you can file, check, make a reference and send all the documents you need. There are different options, but as you said, I am entirely in agreement with you that not only the number of magistrates, but also the number of courts is extremely large and we should not hide and simply deny that such a problem exists. Unbalanced distribution leads people to be dissatisfied. Yes, we must ensure access to justice, but above all, we must establish quality justice. So I am convinced that this judicial card has been being developed for at least six years, many analyses have been done, and I think the Supreme Judicial Council is at the finish line. At least in the programme, which yesterday adopted to implement the measures under the mechanism, gave itself until the end of the year to accept this judicial card. So when it's ready, we all need to get involved in the debate and find the best solution. Once again, thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u171	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. Mr. Delchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u172	Thank you for your sincere and comprehensive answer, Madam Minister. Without a doubt, you are rights the quality of justice is the most important. In fact, your answer confirms that what I hear in Samokov and other municipalities are only rumors and there is no specifics on this issue. I will expect, of course, information in case there is any development in specific courts. I agree that this restructuring should lead to more effective, pό quality justice. There are different options so that people's access to justice is not limited, such as the figure of the judge on duty, who once a week or twice a month goes to the city concerned. My request is that you carefully monitor the process in the Supreme Judicial Council, although you cannot intervene directly, and ensure that what you have said is based on the principle of quality justice and that, at the same time, it is not limited to the access to justice of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u173	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva. You've got two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u174	I agree with everything you've said. Just one clarification.. should not cause concern in magistrates or employees, especially in magistrates, that they will lose their jobs. I suspect a lot of the questions have been dictated precisely by this. We are not talking about a large number of magistrates here. These magistrates will be redirected if such a decision is reached in the Supreme Judicial Council, to other courts. They need to be calm about this. You're absolutely right, there may be bookkeepers on duty, that is to say, there will be employees staying there to accept the documents. There are options once a week to come compositions or compositions to watch cases on the spot. Electronic justice, once again, will solve all problems. Yes, the Ministry does not participate in the development, does not actively participate in the debates and certainly this map happens after co-ordination with the Minister of Justice. I suppose the Supreme Judicial Council wouldn't mind inviting you, too, who is interested, the discussions are public. On his behalf, I think it would be useful for you to hear these debates when public discussions are being held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u175	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. Have a good job. We are moving on to two questions to Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The first question is from the MP Georgi Gokov on mass dismissals at the fluorite mine in the town of Chiprovtsi. Mr. Gyokov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy! The northwest is the poorest area with the poorest population in the European Union. That's hardly anyone's question. It is also confirmed by the Eurostat ranking based on the purchasing power of people living in 271 regions in the Union. Chiprovtsi is in Northwestern Bulgaria in Montana region with high unemployment rate, over 20%. In this poorest district in the Bulgarian Northwestern, nothing good happens to him during this government. Aside from everything else, there are mass dismissals now. This is the second mass reduction of workers in the region since the beginning of the year. A few weeks ago, maybe a month ago, 100 people were released in Lom. Now the Bulgarians are working in the mine in Chiprovtsi. The company provides jobs to 116 people. By the end of March 107 of them will be dismissed from work, their employment contracts will be terminated. Nine employees will be engaged in supporting activities in the mine. In parallel to this, suppliers and subcontractors of the Bulgarians also receive notice of termination of the contractual relations. This will lead to more people who are left out of work - an alarming news for the Bulgarian economy, but even more worrying for the residents of the municipality of Chiprovtsi. Closing the mine is a severe blow to the economy of the mining community. Unemployment in Chiprovtsi in early January was 34.2% in an economically active population of 1053 people. Without employment contracts, 360 people will now be added to them by those over 100 people and unemployment will hit values of nearly 50%. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Each one of them is unemployed. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the question is: what is the position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on this issue? How do you intend to react, and what measures will you take to overcome the social consequences of closing the mine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, in answer to your question, I must tell you that we are following the process related to the closing of the mine. Information on the envisaged mass dismissal on the basis of the requirements of art. 130a, para. 3 of the Labour Code is provided by the employer, by the Department of Labour. In the meantime, a number of talks have been held concerning the closure of the mine, the settlement of further relations, including between the employer and the workers. Yesterday at 15.30 was received an official notification of planned mass dismissal at the Department of Labour and Labour, the city of Montana, on the basis of the requirements of art. 24, para. 1 of the Employment Promotion Act. This means that within 30 days from yesterday's date, the employer will release the employees concerned. We are talking about 106 workers and employees who are subject to exemption. The procedure in this case is to create special teams to seek opportunity for those who are qualified and more easily able to find work and for those who need additional qualifications. This has already been done at the Montana Labor Bureau. Colleagues are working very actively, talks are being held with some of the businesses in the region. One of the major businesses in the region has expressed interest in hiring nearly half of these employees. It is not in Chiprovtsi, but here we are talking about finding work on the territory of Montana region, and we have the opportunity with various programs to assist, if necessary, transport and other costs. What the Labour Bureau will do is to look for seats on the free labour market, to provide opportunities for re-qualification to the people who are released, to give appropriate advice on how quickly the interest could be redirected and possibly find work. You are right that in this region traditional unemployment is extremely high and, unfortunately, there is already a trend in it where high unemployment also generates a lack of investors. Recently there were investors who formally addressed the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and asked for a certain number of workers to be provided for a large investment in Montana. This, by the way, happens two or three times, but we are having a hard time happening, as among the registered unemployed there are many people without education, with no qualifications and so on. I think we'll do everything we can for the workers who are being released from the mine. We are also looking for opportunities for the whole region, but you understand that there is a question of economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u179	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, this is the answer I was expecting from you. I have no doubt in any way that colleagues from the Employment Agency have done their work perfectly in the procedure for mass dismissals, I have no doubt that they have made attempts to avoid this mass abbreviation, to mitigate the consequences of it, by agreeing on better unemployment benefits. I also know what is done in such cases, what is the employment agency's ability to influence in the region. This free labour market sounds a little bit like a wish to me because I've been looking at a reference, I think three places have been announced in December at the Labour Bureau for this region where we can't overcome these consequences. I ask for another question: where is the state to help these people and not precisely through the Employment Agency, through the programmes and measures with which it can be affected? Of course, more money should be spent on this area and on the National Employment Action Plan and on European funds as a priority for these regions, but I think there are attempts to develop tourism with which to engage people, there is talk of returning the old mining glory of Chiprovtsi, but all this without help from the state will not happen. What happened to those allocated by the European Commission under the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between Romania and Bulgaria 2014-20. 250 million. Euros, which, by the way, is supposed to be triggered, and money somehow doesn't reach people? It is true that local authorities must be active in this case, absorb as much of the money as possible, but the state must help them. The capacity of these small municipalities is not so good. Of course, these issues are largely not up to you as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but as Deputy Prime Minister you can influence this case. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] in Montana, Vratsa, better things are happening to these people in the Northwest because they are Bulgarians and deserve to live at least like the other Bulgarians in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one sentence. You understand and you said yourself, Mr. Gokov, that this is about a comprehensive and long-term policy of the government. The government recently adopted a development programme not only in Northwestern Bulgaria, but also Strandzha and other remote regions. It really requires long-term care and long-term investment. What is in my area, I have already told you there are investments that are being directed, they are coming, of course, on a private line, and stimulated by the Ministry of Economy, by us looking for employed, that is, workers to qualify. There are programs, there are enrolled unemployed, but not every time it is easy to meet these demands. That is why I am more relaxed for people who have worked so far, they are relatively easier to get back into the labour market. I have already mentioned, because there is no security, I will not mention the name, a large enterprise in the region has expressed readiness, possibly, we are still discussing 45 people who are made redundant to be hired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u183	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The last question to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin is a question from the MPs Ivan Ibrishimov and Cornelia Ninova about means of obtaining batteries for disabled people using wheelchairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Kalfin! Representatives of the Initiative Committee for People with Disabilities took part in my reception in the 10th Multi-Multiple Election Region. They presented to me the following problem: importers of batteries stop imports and do not offer batteries up to 28 amps, which fall within the defined by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy 280 BGN. Thus, people with disabilities are forced to pay up to 150 BGN for them. for auxiliary batteries. This puts these people in a deadlock or stop moving or deprive themselves of other vital things. In addition, most of the batteries are in a guarantee period of six months, and by law, persons are entitled to new batteries after three years. Often, batteries show defects, but traders do not make any commitments to replace them after the sixth month, because the Law does not oblige them. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, I ask for your answer to the following: do you have any information on the identified problems of disabled people using wheelchairs, and what measures and deadlines will you take to resolve them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Ibrishimov! Indeed, means of purchasing electric wheelchair batteries are granted periodically through the social support system. There are several things that you raise questions that go beyond this sphere. I'd like to clarify what this is about. Imports of different facilities, their technical suitability, their operational and warranty periods and so on cannot in any way be regulated by the social support system. There are other institutions that deal with them. You are well aware that by law each importer is obliged to maintain a warranty service, is obliged to maintain where it is to be repaired, of course, for some appliances, I do not know whether the batteries are such, and after the guarantee service. Other institutions in the country are responsible for all these things. As regards social payments related to batteries, yes, they are three years old, because although the guarantee period is six months, there is a difference between the guarantee period and the service period of each instrument, it is not usually used only within its guarantee period. With regard to the size and type of batteries imported, we checked from June 2011. This kind of question has hardly been asked elsewhere in the country. There are questions that ask people about tools and gadgets, including electric carts. Most often complaints are about the quality of the carts themselves and the long duration of use they are supposed to use. We have not identified this problem from other places and from other organizations in the country. Of course, if more organisations signal that there is a problem, there is no import of certain products and so on, we will look for adequate measures, but on the other hand, we must not allow importers to decide that they will stop a product used for medical purposes that is cheaper, and because the state subsidises it, they will increase its price as much as they want. You know that there are very bad examples in this regard, and that is precisely in the health sphere, so let's not stimulate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u187	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a replica. "Dr. Ibryshimov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I agree with what you have said, but my question is rather as inflation is rising, and the technique is improving, it is becoming more expensive, I am alarming the attitude to take account of the price update with which the Ministry helps to buy these aids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u189	Would you like to make a duplicate? No. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there are no other questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. In the performance of her constitutional duties to answer questions and questions comes the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev on the control of the use of the herbicide in Bulgarian agriculture and its distribution in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is on a subject which is little talked about and debated in the Bulgarian Parliament, but I believe that the issue of food safety is fundamental and important to us. I recently spoke with a friend who said that supermarkets have become libraries.Sit people and read what is in each package, is it harmful, is it not harmful, get acquainted with the topic. Of course, when you read, you can make an informed decision and decide whether to buy a product or not, but I'm more concerned with what's not written on the packages. As stated in my question, according to the results of a survey by the European Union, it has proved that it is very common in the organisms of European citizens. It is important to make a substantial clarification to be clearer about what is being said. The commercial name of the herbicide "Glyphozat" is "Roundup." A few weeks ago, the British press wrote that in Britain the Glyphozat is so widely used that residues are common in the British bread itself. We know that Roundup is very widely used in our agriculture, including, of course, large farmers, but also in domestic gardening, in everyday people. It thus falls into the soil and groundwater and from there into food, respectively, into the organisms of humans. In fact, according to the study done in 2013, it is said that in the urine of 10% of Bulgarians can be found this herbicide, as well as 40% of Europeans, which is quite worrying in general. In this regard, I would like to ask you: has a control mechanism been introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to monitor and control the quantities of used If such a mechanism is not in place, is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food planning to introduce a mechanism that regulates the quantities of Glyphosate that are used in domestic agriculture? Has a mechanism been introduced to monitor the presence of the herbicide in food as a whole? If not introduced, is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food planning to monitor the presence of the herbicide in food and has an assessment been carried out on the safety and impact of the Glyphosate by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I did not interrupt you because of respect for you and the importance of the question, but for a reply you will have one minute. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u192	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I respond to and quote specific data from Mr. Ananiev, I would like to start by saying that the study you are quoting is certainly not of an official nature and is not by an official authority. The only European Food Safety Authority is EFSA. I will tell you in detail what program is being implemented. The study that you are quoting may have been carried out on the territory of the European Union, but this does not mean that it has the nature of an official opinion of an official body which obliges us in a certain order which is regulated in a relevant regulation what to carry out. I'm saying this as a clarification so we don't panic users. The substance is an active substance. It is contained in numerous plant protection preparations. In this sense, I will also provide data regarding its use annually in Bulgaria and what control is being carried out, but I would like to say that this is not in any case only "Roundup." This is indeed the most popular preparation that is known and is called among consumers, but it is contained in extremely many plant protection preparations and we need to speak very precisely so that we do not create a certain panic as something extraordinary that has happened. In accordance with art. 49, para. 2 of the Plant Protection Act, holders of authorisations for placing on the market and use of plant protection products shall submit to the Central Management of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency all data relating to the volume of sales of plant protection preparations in accordance with Community legislation. On the basis of this information, plant protection preparations containing an active substance of Glyphozat in 2014 placed on the market in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be 515 thousand. Literature. The control carried out in Bulgaria to monitor the presence of pesticides in foodstuffs is by applying the current Regulation No 396 of 2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on maximum residue levels of pesticides in or on food or feed of plant or animal origin. Regarding the control of pesticides in foodstuffs, including the herbicide, "Glyphozat', in the implementation of Regulation No 396 of 2005 currently within the European Union, including in Bulgaria, is implemented a 3-year programme adopted by Regulation No 400 of 2014 on a coordinated multiannual Union programme to ensure compliance with maximum residue levels of pesticides in and on food of animal and plant origin and to assess consumer exposure to those residues. This year, the herbicide is being examined by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the European Food Safety Authority, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), which will assess, analyse and decide whether to take appropriate new restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u193	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u194	Dear Minister, I asked the same question to the Minister of Health and to the Minister of Environment and Water. I think it's important to monitor in general the use of this herbicide. You said yes, it is also used in other preparations, but I said its most common form. We are talking about the largest market share and the most familiar, in general not only in Bulgaria, but also in the whole world, preparation. I'm interested, though. You will provide your information to the European Agency, which expects this, but I want to know: is it found in Bulgarian foods this herbicide? That is also the nature of my question. It's a good thing you're being followed after there's a three-year program that monitors its use. Just one clarification that this study has actually been commissioned by the World Health Organization and recommendations have been made in this regard. I think it has its legitimacy and it is good to know that things are being controlled. What you have said, I am pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food itself controls the use with this 3-year program, but it is nice, besides the European Agency and the MPs, and the Bulgarian society to know what the results of this inspection are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u195	Thank you. Are you going to use a hole? You don't want to. We're moving on to the questioning procedure. She is from the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for stimulating farmers from the small and medium-sized agricultural business. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! During the years of transition, under market economy conditions and free market, a very serious disproportion between wholesale and retail agricultural production has been created. The lack of a national agricultural strategy and indeterminate priority activities in the sector, as well as the non-determining of restrictions on the size of the areas managed and processed, have created conditions for a huge consolidation and distortion of the structure in agricultural production. Now around 5,500 farmers manage over 80% of the land and apply modern agriculture, but production is mainly directed towards cereals and oil crops. The remaining about 250 thousand farmers are holding somewhere 18. 20% of the land, their production is at a low technological level and with insufficient economic efficiency. This is the main reason for their low incomes and poor living standards of these people. My question to you is: what are the policies and views of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for future development of small and medium-sized agricultural production and what are the incentives for the same during the new programming period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u197	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, Professor. Stankov, I share your findings and we can talk a lot about what are the reasons and how the process of disabling went, and hence the consolidation of a private entrepreneurial principle of agricultural areas, and the development of a certain type of farming, but this certainly, except to clarify the processes, to identify and analyse the errors, would not help us in any other direction. What is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and what have we done at the beginning of the mandate, especially within the scope of the opportunities given by the common agricultural policy under the direct payments of the Rural Development Programme? I dare say that all the actions we have taken are definitely in the direction of supporting small and market-resistant farmers in this programming period, priority support for the underfunded sectors in Bulgarian agriculture such as livestock farming, fruit and vegetables, for various reasons, I will not have the time to say my point of view, which have remained underfunded and have reduced their production in times. There are several things that we need to pay attention to and expect, of course, then a result and an analysis of whether these measures have led to the objectives we seek. First of all, direct payments. You know that our country has accepted a ceiling of 5% for amounts between 150,000. And 300,000. EUR and 100% for amounts above 300 thousand. EUR on direct payments. Bulgaria in the past campaign applies the distribution payment scheme, i.e. for the first 30 hectares there is an additional payment. We also applied the small farmers scheme for the first time, and I dare say, although the exact data has not been finalised, the payment of small farmers under this scheme has been foreseen for May, given the complexity of the calculations. Out of 61 151 farmers under the small farmers' aid scheme, they said they were interested in using a little over 9000 farmers. That is, nearly 9000 farmers will not submit applications, will not be part of the administration of direct payments by the end of the programming period if they only retain the volume they have had. With regard to State aid in the past year, which we have provided mainly by de minimis assistance, especially with regard to the exceptional support for the sector of "Life', we have allocated them to farmers with an upper ceiling of up to 200 cows, and that part of the aid which has been distributed into liters of milk, the corresponding amount of milk corresponding to the average yield of 200 cows. What was the goal? The budget at our disposal was 11 million. 742,000. BGN, to be distributed to small and medium-sized farms. Under the Rural Development Programme, which we initially changed and received approval in this form, I can say a few things. For the first time, small farms will be able to apply for a special thematic sub-programme with a total budget of 110 million. EUR within this programming period. In the 2016 indicative schedule, which is public and everyone can plan their preparation for participation in it, we have provided for the 2.1.2 EUR, which will be able to purchase, including animals, something that cannot be done under the measure concerning large farms. It's a very interesting debate. Indeed, 5588 farmers are currently processing 79% of the land. These are the farms over 1,000 acres. The absolute size of farmers processing up to 1000 acres is 55 563 farmers, but what is the special thing here? I can't say that these are small farmers, because everything depends on the type of agricultural production that works. If it is fruit, vegetables, the business volume in euro is sufficiently high and for this sector these are average, market-resistant agricultural holdings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u199	Thank you. Here you go, Professor. Stankov, for further up to two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Indeed, the problems of small and medium-sized farmers are many, accumulated over time. I have held many meetings in connection with the past election campaign and I have to tell you that people have suffered from not being able to invest, that they do not have enough opportunities to use consulting services, that little attention is paid to them and things are difficult for these small farmers. In this regard, I will put two additional questions, the first one being: people's complaint is that they do not receive enough competent answers, and sometimes they do not get answers at all to the so-called hot phone to the State Fund of Agriculture, and they are interested in how in the fastest way to get the necessary information? That's one of the questions. I think it's very important and people want to hear it. Secondly, again with regard to the need for such an authority, small farmers have indicated that under the measure 214 "agro-environment, bio-production, there is a complete discrepancy of data submitted and information received between the certification companies, beneficiaries and the State Fund "Agriculture'. The certification companies, without which no information can be obtained, to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund of Agriculture are blackmailing producers with very high fees and people said that a sample of alfalfa to be worked is somewhere around BGN 750. That's what they really showed me as a fact, and the alfalfa itself costs 700 leva. The question is: how do we solve this problem? Can we directly refer the questions to the Agricultural Fund without the certification companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u201	You are welcome to answer the supplementary questions, Madam Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, MPs! With regard to the issue of consulting services. The issue is very flexible not only for small businesses, for small farmers, it is also placed in many places. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food... I recommend to everyone who has administrative capacity, financial, legal testimony. The regulations, instructions, the National Council Office of the Ministry of Agriculture................................................................................ For small farmers, we returned the rule again and applied it to the National Agriculture Council Office for free to prepare their projects. Last year we also started with the projects under the Young Farmer, where more than half of the business plans of candidates for young farmers were prepared by the Office and are relatively successful. I hope that at the next reception they will draw up a greater number of business plans and applications to support farmers in this kind. The question of the consultants was also raised at the meeting of the farmers, organized by the Association of Farmers in Bulgaria three days ago on Wednesday, in order to make public those of them who have wronged projects, were denied beneficiaries because of errors. We will think about these proposals.... can we create some system of publicity for the correct ones to make it easier for them. Farmers, in view of the launch of the Programme and not only them, and all potential beneficiaries are under pressure in terms of their preparation. I call on you to read the regulations carefully. The services are open to farmers, so anyone with sufficient capacity as finance, with a basic level of legal knowledge, is able to prepare his own projects, and the National Agriculture Council Service will help him. We will extend its scope to prepare such projects and other measures. Your second question about bioproduction certification companies. Honourable Professor. Stankov, there is no way that this unit is missing in the process of development of organic production, because this is the order for its recognition and the State Fund of Agriculture is not able to replace these functions. What we are preparing is a change in the conditions and control of these certification companies - 13 of the number of the market in Bulgaria, in most part representatives and multinational companies for such certification. There will be a change in control. This is by a regulation which governs this in the light of various infringements of checks which have been established. We have no way of setting them terms with regard to the prices they offer. The analysis of the take-up under Measure 4.1 is asked to me by Prof. Bachvarova showed the strong interest of transition to biological, which made their service very interesting again. This criterion, in the form of a notification, has been proposed to be removed so that organic production can also be genuine and with confidence to benefit from the consumer, rather than distorting itself to obtain additional ranking points for the application under the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. For attitude, please come in, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You know that I am fully aware of all these issues, I know how to solve them, but I have very much kept from this highest tribune you to share what is being done, which is being done in the Ministry of Agriculture, and it is not very small. You know the negotiations started when I was in the office. There was a great struggle to protect and to have a separate scheme on the first pillar for small and medium-sized farmers. I believe that this is a great success. The opportunities offered by other measures, all that is being done, but the problems of small farmers are indeed very serious. A lot of them are going broke. The bad news is they have no investment opportunities, no way to invest, no way to improve their production. At meetings people cry with tears that the second and third category farms, which do not meet the requirements, cannot sell their production, which is something very, very serious and even worse their situation. I think that what we need to do next together is to make a special forum on this topic, on this issue, and really do the most so that we can develop what you have also said about organic production, livestock production, fruit and vegetables production. There are free niches that can be occupied by small and medium-sized farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u205	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. We continue with a question again by the National Representative Ivan Stankov about the state and trends for the development of Bulgarian sheep farming and the realization of the products from him. Professor Stankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u206	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The theme I'm going to develop here is my favorite theme, you know, that's my profession. I would like to inform you that on 12 December 2015 a seminar was held with Bulgarian dairy sheep farmers. The seminar was attended by more than 300 registered sheep farmers with main activity - milk production. The state and problems of Bulgarian sheep farming were discussed and relevant recommendations for its future development were made. The more important conclusions that were drawn: first of all, during the years of the transition the number of sheep in Bulgaria has decreased dramatically and currently sheep farming is at the critical minimum. This is one of the important findings; the country's traditional sheep-producing markets, live animals, as well as meat and dairy products are lost; the disproportion between the buying-in prices of sheep-growing products and the prices of realization in the markets is disturbing; the cultural and highly productive sheep-growing and overvalued primitive, presented by the so-called milk breeds. We must not deny them, but people believe that they are overrated at the moment. There are problems with the inclusion in subsidization of newly established farms and those with extended reproduction and others. My question to you is: what are the views of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the development of sheep farming in Bulgaria? Are any adjustments envisaged to strengthen incentives for cultural breeds? Will markets for lambs and dairy products be provided in 2016? That's what really excites farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u207	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Stankov, honourable MPs! The sector "Instructions" for Bulgaria, its reduction from 1989, when it was the other form of agriculture in Bulgaria, so far is one of the most heavily reduced productions. However, it is a traditional industry and we have opportunities to increase production. The policies that we apply as a state through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund of Agriculture are in the direction of prioritizing its support in order to restore levels that we have had. Despite the severe and economic crisis in the sector, following various political decisions such as the embargo, the fall in prices in the last year and four months, however, with the new support measures, I can announce the first comparative data. Of course, the 2016 campaign will show whether this will be confirmed for the number of farms and sheep claimed for support. If 2014 12 108 sheep holdings have claimed support for 1 million. 60,000. sheep, 13 thousand respectively paid for 2015 138 sheep holdings with 1 million 299 thousand. and a little above sheep, which means that regardless of the difficulties the farmers themselves believe that development in this direction would bring them income. In addition, sheep farming as production, the farmer concerned has been prioritized in absolutely all measures under the Rural Development Programme, including for admission in 2016: sub-measure 6.3; animal welfare measure 14 for the first time within the scope of these direct payments within the period, although not as of 1 March, will be applied this welfare measure; sub-measure 4.1, including small farms thematic; measure 11 As regards direct payment schemes for the first time, which is very positive, payments were divided by different schemes and those for animals under selective control, including sheep, received a higher rate. That should be the direction. However, there, unfortunately, flocks under selective control are in times less than common, and in other countries of the European Union such support and payment of an animal head for sheep, for example, is only for animals under selective control. However, in Bulgaria, if we had applied it in the past 2015, this would have led to the bankruptcy of many other farms. I believe that the direction was required to be more measures, such as those under selective control, to be higher in order to encourage farmers to raise productive animals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u209	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Professor Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for the answers you gave. I know everything is being done, but I also wanted to hear it from the farmers, because the excitement about this redeemed campaign is very great, but the farmers themselves need to know that the problem is that we cannot make lots. And when the ship comes, when the merchant comes, no matter which side he's on, he wants to fill the ship. That's why we have to do a lot of things. I am not for a reason asking the question that we should pay more attention to the cultural breeds of those who bring added value that bring income to Bulgaria and, of course, to the farmers themselves. Here we need to synchronize to a large extent the lambing so that we can pull over simultaneously and make uniform lots. Then we, in this small number we have, can now look for a solution to the problem of exports, with the export of animals and many, many other things that we have to do. I believe that indeed this Strategy that we have developed, and where there is a Section of Agriculture, where we have pointed out the steps that need to be walked, and perhaps this is what we should discuss and apply in Bulgaria, because, as you said, sheep farming is the most traditional enterprise in the country. Big Bulgarian economists and most of all Burov has developed the thesis that Bulgaria has three currency animals - these are sheep, buffalo and bees. I'm glad that you attended this meeting yesterday and that you did everything you could to get those beekeepers' subsidies. But we need to work a little harder on the other areas of sheep farming and buffalo farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u211	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Would you like to make a duplicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Stankov, I use the duplicate not for anything else, but rather for informing farmers. A very important measure of support, especially for sheep farming, is the order to provide measures, pastures and meadows, which we have accepted as an animal unit. What does it do to me, though, because we always have to make informed decisions, both executive and legislative powers? While last year there were 6334 applications to provide such properties from municipalities, this year there are only about 2,000. I would like to say that this campaign on direct payments, which is to come, for the first time already, and the declaration of support areas that are from the public fund, will be limited to the norm. So there's no way to get subsidies above the norm. I hope that this will really cause a movement of this fund towards animals that do not have enough such areas, but they must also be initiators, to exert pressure on the local authorities, so that this fund can really be where it is intended, namely for the grazing of animals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u213	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on a signed Memorandum of Cooperation and Partnership between the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Institute of Oceanology. Fritöf Nansen at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, honourable Members, my question is related to the information that was published in the media for a signed Memorandum of Cooperation and Partnership between the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Institute of Oceanology. Fritöf Nansen at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The signed agreement is aimed at carrying out modern research in the field of the Common Fisheries Policy. My first question, which is related to this, is: What are the financial values and commitments of the signed agreement and the guidelines for cooperation provided for in it? The second part of the question relates to the more general finding on which I hope to receive in your reply is: What is the ratio of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the academic community at the Agricultural Academy? As is known, in the system of the Academy works and implements scientific projects the Institute of Fisheries and Fisheries Resources, which is also based in the city. Varna. This institute participates in international and European projects and has also developed the methodologies for research, training related to the issues of fisheries policy in Bulgaria. The question is: Does the signed agreement with the Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences mean that the Institute of Fisheries Resources will not participate in scientific projects and consultations that concern the sustainable management of marine resources in fisheries and aquaculture? I ask this question because in the first programming period there was extremely much tension between the two institutions, a competition that was not based on objective resources, but rather on subjective decisions of the management of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u215	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, MPs! The Memorandum of Cooperation between the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Institute of Oceanology of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences signed on 14 January 2016 aims to improve coordination and cooperation in the field of modern research, in compliance with the requirements of the common fisheries policy, to prepare scientific recommendations to support the sustainable management of living marine biological resources. The document deals only with areas of cooperation and has no financial value. A similar Memorandum was signed on 26 January 2016 with the Institute of Fishery Resources, Varna, at the Agricultural Academy. On 2 February 2016 another Memorandum of Cooperation and Partnership between the Agency and the Institute for Fisheries and Aquaculture was signed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In recent years, the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture has actively worked with both the Scientific Institute of the Bulgarian Academy and the Institutes of the Agricultural Academy in fulfilling our country's commitments under the National Programme for the Collection, Management and Use of Data in the Sector. The research that is foreseen and to be carried out in the implementation of the National Programme will be financed under Operational Programme................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You are informed, but I have more time, I will give information about them and they are made by the Institutes of the Agricultural Academy. Assessment of the stocks of turbot in the Bulgarian waters of the Black Sea during the autumn-winter season of 2015 on the basis of the trawl photo was held by the Institute of Fisheries Resources, Varna, for BGN 47 088. The biological monitoring carried out on landings of turbot was carried out by the Institute for Fisheries and Aquaculture, Plovdiv, for BGN 26 160. In the year we are in, we have commitments to control and monitor. Of course, we rely on the institutes of the Agricultural Academy, with which we have done these research last year to fulfil our commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u217	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! I thank you for the answer in which you actually confirm the need to cooperate with the institutes of the Agricultural Academy. The fact is that when I asked the question, and this was in January, only the Memorandum with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was signed. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the first programming period 2007-2013, there were extremely serious problems with the confrontation between the Institutes of BAS and the Agricultural Academy. My appeal is really to use the entire scientific community and what it has as a created database and project implementation capabilities, because in this way we will walk relatively easily both in the fishing programme and in its scientific service, which requires the cooperation of the entire scientific community. One question that we have put this whole period, rather for discussion, rather than for a final solution at this time, is to set up a national centre for fisheries and aquaculture, where scientists, administration, the institutes of the Agricultural Academy are leading, so that this programme can be applied fairly effectively and that the Ministry of Agriculture has a reliable partner in its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u219	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, I would very much like to give you the opportunity to fulfill your constitutional obligations and answer all questions, but the Rules do not allow our work until 2:00 p.m., but we have started this issue and we will end with the backdrop that you have the right to do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, MPs! Thanks for the offer, but I'd like to respond this way. Yes, that is really how we should work and so are our intentions, and you know, especially the members of the Committee on Agriculture, that we are currently working on the public discussion of the Law on Reform at the Agricultural Academy. I also hope that you will be involved in this debate in order to make a reform that will make us not only be supported as a state to better implement the programmes, whether in rural areas or the maritime and fisheries programme, because these European programmes are only one of the tools for making policies and giving guidelines for the development of agriculture, but especially the scientific community to function in a way that meets the needs of the business that is becoming more progressive because, if it is not developing innovative, it cannot stand as competitiveness in the common market in which we find ourselves. By the end of March is the public discussion. At the moment it is going to different institutes in the country, and I hope that we will reach a common consensus on a way of functioning, in which not only will there be the issue of how much we need to give from the salary budget, but will be able to manage in a way that the business that wants to develop innovatively, to be competitive, this science to be their companion in finding these solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-12.u221	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you all for participating in today's parliamentary control. Before closing the meeting, a message, which is: the next regular plenary session of the National Assembly will be on Wednesday 17 February 2016, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
