ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which, after the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Government, I believe that it will not be sealed by the draft laws and acts of Parliament, to include as the last item for today the First Voting of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance with Importers Ivan Valkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Pavel Hristov. I clarify two provisions are: one Transitional for the moment of entry into force, rather Final provision and concerns the existence of one Directorate in the Ministry of Transport until the establishment of the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing controversial and complicated about this bill. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 143 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. One message: Analyses on the application of the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for the period June 2011 was received by the National Assembly. "Month of June 2016" The analysis was received on 28 July 2016 by letter No 620-00-18 of the interim President of the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest. By my letter the material was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the point that follows from our weekly program: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 15 July 2016. I recall item V of our decision on the Rules of Procedure, promulgated in the Official Journal on 19 July 2016: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the website via the National Assembly's website. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within two minutes. 4. The deliberations on the applications shall be held in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for the President of the Commission, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order. The candidate who received more than half the votes is considered elected. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. We are about to hear a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I ask, first of all, for a procedure, that we vote in this House to allow Mrs. Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova, nominated President of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u3	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. Invite Mrs. Karaivanova to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u4	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to remind you that according to point two of point V of the Election Rules, the National Assembly is listening to a summary of the submitted report. The report is detailed, reflects the overall hearing held in the Commission, and I assume that all MPs who are interested have met him, so I will be shorter than what is written in the report. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budgets Finance on hearing the proposed candidate Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova-Ganozova as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission At an open meeting held on 26 July 2016 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission under Section IV of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the rules of procedure. Mrs. Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that it was evident from the documents presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova, the same meets the requirements of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for the appointment of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission and should be allowed to be heard. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that Ms. Karina Karaivanova-Ganozova is not subject to verification under art. 26, para. 4 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, as it was born after 16 July 1973. Ms. Karaivanova's application, proposed by the GERB Parliamentary Group, was presented by the MP Menda Stoyanova. After the submission of the application, the personal presentation of Ms. Karaivanova and her concept of the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission were presented. Ms. Karaivanova outlined three main tasks in her activities in the short term, namely: 1. ensuring impartial and objective management of the process of reviewing the quality of assets and stress in the non-banking financial sector, ensuring compliance with the announced deadlines and ensuring the necessary confidence in the results of the ongoing assessments both in society and in European partners; 2. obtaining an independent and professional external assessment in relation to the forthcoming financial sector assessment programme using the capacity of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to carry out a thorough, qualitative analysis and preparation of recommendations; 3. initiating a series of meetings and events where feedback and business ideas related to his activities and his relations with the Financial Supervision Commission can be collected, identifying measures within the Commission's competence to revive and activate the capital market in Bulgaria. As regards institutional governance and reforms in the Financial Supervision Commission, Ms. Karaivanova noted that the real integration and coordination between the different supervisory and regulatory segments in organizational and management aspects will be completed. According to T. 5 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure, the Members of the National Assembly referred their questions separately to the candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. During the debates were asked questions by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Korman Ismailov, Georgi Kovachev, Rumen Gechev and Petar Chobanov. In response to the questions asked Ms. Karaivanova pointed out that many of them had already been answered in their concept of the Financial Supervision Commission's activities, but gave more clarity on the additional ones. According to T. 6 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Menda Stoyanova informed the MPs about the prepared public presentation of Ms. Karaivanova from the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives and presented the questions received to the candidate for Chairman of the Commission for Financial Supervision by Media. She pointed out that a large part of them had already been given an answer and should only be answered: whether there were concerns about taking up the post of checks in pension funds and insurers; whether the criticisms were justified that the checks were poorly organised; what could be done to correct the errors; whether the decisions taken by the Financial Supervision Commission in the management of the previous President, including that of moving to a new building would be reviewed. In response to the questions Ms. Karaivanova briefed the Commission in detail. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the proposed candidate complies with the legal requirements for taking up the post of President of the Financial Supervision Commission. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained from the proposed candidate and the qualifications it has acquired are a positive prerequisite for implementing the competent and responsible management of the Financial Supervision Commission. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed application of Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED He elected Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova... Ganozova as Chairman of the Financial Supervision
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. According to item V, etc. 3 each candidate shall be submitted by the importer within 2 minutes. The candidate is the only one. You have the floor to present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the documents found on the website of the National Assembly there is a detailed CV and other references, so I will make briefly the presentation of Ms. Karaivanova in the Chamber. GERB Parliamentary Group proposes Mrs. Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova to be president of the Financial Supervision Commission. In 1998 Mrs. Karaivanova graduated from the Faculty of Economics at Sofia University "Kliment Ohridski", specialty "Economics", and in 1999 she became Master of Finance and Banking in the same Faculty. Later there are numerous specializations in the country and abroad in the field of economics and governance. He began his career as an expert in the private sector, and later, since 2001, he moved into the public sector. The largest part of her career as an expert goes to the Ministry of Finance, which began in 2003 at the lowest level.Starchy Expert, passing through all levels of growth to gradually reach the Deputy Minister of Finance in 2012. Over the years Ms. Karaivanova has undoubtedly proven her professionalism. For more than 10 years it has held leadership positions and some of its responsibilities are related to the Stock Exchange, capital markets and pension reform. Over the years, it has managed to earn the respect of its colleagues from the European Commission and the European Investment Bank and is imposed as a very good professional in its field, a leader with excellent reputation and excellent administrative and organisational qualities. Ms. Karaivanova has very good capabilities for communication and dialogue, proven in her work with various institutions and entities, such as the Bulgarian National Bank, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the Central Depository, the Financial Supervision Commission, associations and professional associations. It has initiative, energy, excellent qualities in creating and managing teams and projects, as the last example we can point out is the creation of the Fund Manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In view of the above, we propose to the National Assembly that Ms. Karaivanova, who has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation, should be elected President of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I am opening the debate, honourable Members. You have the floor to speak. I'm closing the debate. [[BSP LB: "There are statements, there are! "]] How long do I have to wait for you? [[Radio.]] Looks like you haven't woken up since this morning. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We just assumed the importers would take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u9	The application has just been submitted by the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u10	Dear colleagues, according to art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be elected by the National Assembly. It is the National Assembly that has constitutionally established powers to elect the President of the Financial Supervision Commission, and the order and manner of this choice are laid down in the act governing the organisation and activities of the National Assembly, namely, colleagues, the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, and in particular Art. 89. The rules on the organization and the activities of the National Assembly are a regulatory act, therefore the deadlines set by it are regulatoryly established and their compliance is absolutely mandatory in order to carry out the electoral procedure legally. All decisions of the National Assembly, including those of organizational and technical and procedural nature, shall not conflict with a promulgated and enacted regulatory act such as sub-NS. The Rules reproduced two basic principles that are the basis for the electoral procedure of bodies, namely, honourable Members, the principle of legality and the principle of publicity. According to his art. 89 The choice of bodies shall take place in whole or in part in accordance with the legislation in force and following a public procedure. The National Assembly shall adopt separate procedural rules for the selection of the relevant body in strict compliance with all regulatory requirements, both on the special requirements for the respective position provided for in a special law and on each stage of the selection procedure, in accordance with the Rules. These rules reflect the views of the National Assembly on the appropriateness, operationality and provision of organisational and technical conditions in order to reach the choice to be made in accordance with the established competences of the Constitution and their consistency and content shall be determined by the National Assembly itself as appropriate and by the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria says that the organization of the activities of the National Assembly is carried out on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules adopted by it. Therefore, compliance with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted by our Assembly as the supreme legislative body of the Republic of Bulgaria, is a prerequisite for the legality of its own decisions. In defining the rules on electoral procedure, the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall also include the requirement to provide information to the public on applications made and the possibility of participation of stakeholders in the procedure. The meaning of the 14-day term under art. 89, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure for publication of the proposals for selection and documents of candidates shall be the publicity of the candidates and the possibility of making questions and expressions of views by third parties. The period for public consultation of the applications shall be similar to the provided period for public consultation in art. 26, para. 2 of the Law on Legislative Acts, and Article 2 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Compliance with it, instead of its unlawful reduction, allows for a longer and fuller public discussion. Notwithstanding the arguments for appropriateness when determining a period of 14 days instead of a shorter period for public consultation, the non-compliance with the norm of art. 89, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which is imperative, honourable Members, and does not provide for any exceptions to the rule of conduct which it prescribes. Failure to comply with a regulatory act of a body whose activity also regulates is not just a bad practice or a procedural infringement, but the issuing of an unlawful act to the legislature itself and, in particular, in the event of a material breach of production rules. Dear colleagues, in art. 89 of our Rules are set out the time limits for the stage conduct of the electoral procedure, namely: for publication of proposals for the selection of candidates, not later than 14 days before the hearing; for submission of opinions and questions to candidates from non-profit legal entities not later than three days before the hearing; for submission of the report to the relevant Standing Committee and Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly. The decision to elect the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission adopted under procedural rules, the content of which is contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, will be vitiated due to the infringement of production rules and can thus be attacked as unconstitutional. This would also call into question the legality of the financial supervision acts put forward by the Commission after the possible announcement of that decision contrary to the Constitution. The adoption of rules for the election of the President of the C.F.R.S., which would lead to the unconstitutionality of the decision on his choice, made on the basis of alleged production violations and at the same time the exercise of the powers of the collective body by issuing acts unconstitutionally stabilised on the basis of the provision of art. 5, para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, due to the involvement of a member whose choice has been vitiated, without this vicious development of the procedure being able to be crossed at an earlier stage by the judicial authorities, is powerless and absurd. To claim that there must be a completion of the infringement by means of the act of election of the authority of the National Assembly in order to be able to counteract the same in the event of the violation of legal rights and interests of third parties in the meantime does not reflect the principles of legality and justice which the Constitution entrusts to the judiciary. In other words, honourable Members, put in a very understandable language, you, the rulers, have violated the Rules of the National Assembly, have repeatedly shortened the time limits for public discussion on the promotion of applications and competition in the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission. This is absolutely unacceptable because it is the National Assembly that must set an example to the other state institutions how the spirit and letter of the Constitution and the Law are respected. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the harsh violation of the procedures for the election of the President of the C.F.R., we are witnessing another process. This is the focus of too much political power in the hands of the Minister of Finance, whoever he is. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Finance presented the leadership of BNB. The Minister of Finance is now presenting his Deputy Minister for President of the Financial Supervision Commission. The Minister of Finance is also the principal of the Bulgarian Development Bank. There is no such country in Europe and I am not aware of it, where, in the hands of the Minister of Finance, whoever he is, colleagues from any party he is, to concentrate so much power to control the financial sector. This is extremely dangerous! You violate procedures and rules, and you take full responsibility for this choice! We believe that the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament must be strictly respected, which is why we cannot support this procedural violation, and we will vote against. We call on you to withdraw the autumn procedure, to meet the parliamentary deadlines, and then to make the choice under normal conditions that meet the Constitution, the Law and the interests of the stability of the financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u11	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, with interest, perhaps unlike most of the Chamber, I listened to what you read to us, and which obviously a fellow lawyer of yours had prepared for you before this for vices in the procedure and so on. You know what embarrassed me, what caused my interest, and why am I taking that line? This is not the first procedure that the National Assembly has voted with reduced time limits for the election of a member of a collective body. Even if you remember, on the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC), there was a similar situation - it was again a seven-day period. The interesting thing is, at the time, you didn't seem to care at all. On the left, you were silent, you supported this procedure, even in the first version you had two uplifted candidates, when Mr. Zhelyazkov took a stand, and we paid attention to you that the procedure could not continue and we needed a new procedure, you then passionately defended it on the left and kept this procedure to be completed. The question immediately arises: then why was this procedure okay and now suddenly, sort of identical procedure, do you not like it? The answer, Mr. Gechev, is very simple and I think everyone remembers. It is because then you had been promised a place at the KPC and you actually got it then, that is, you got your quota, it seemed to do you good and it calmed you down, and you didn't notice then the obvious violation, and now because you didn't get a quota, suddenly the procedure started to bother you. [[Noise and lines.]] So let's not measure with double archin, let's say things with their real names and let's make it clear that this is the real reason why you are so passionate and categorically protesting. By the way, I didn't hear anything specific about Mrs. Karaivanova's candidacy. In general, you commented on the procedure and some common things. The point of this debate is to comment precisely on this application, does it meet our expectations to ask, for example, what team it will propose, who it will rely on in this Commission, will it tolerate the so far absurd practices of this leadership? I have the feeling that this current leadership of you likes you, which has expired, and you are currently doing everything possible to continue it there, to stay for a few more months outside of any terms and legal terms. So it turns out, Mr. Gechev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gechev, thank you very much for introducing the MPs to the complaint you filed to the Constitutional Court, attacking unconstitutionality of the rules. I take a line to assure all MPs that there is no danger that the Constitutional Court will rule that this is unconstitutional for two reasons. The first reason that gives me reason to defend such a thesis is that the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly are adopted by a decision of the National Assembly, which is equivalent to the act - a decision by which we have adopted the rules of procedure, and the Members of the National Assembly in this Chamber, voting, can correct their previous decision quite legally and non-constitutionally. And the second plea is the Constitutional Court's decision on a similar case, not to say identical when BSP again attacked the Rules of Election of the President of BNB. And there the Constitutional Court's decision is clear that there is no unconstitutionality. I understand that what the opposition is doing is normal for its role as opposition. Mr. Gechev, I understand why you did not ask questions to Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, who Mr. Slavov here tried to tell you that you should put, but unlike Mr. Slavov, you are a member of the Budget Committee and participated in the debates, presentations, the answers Mrs. Karaivanova gave, the interrogation to which she was subjected in the Budget Commission, and you are aware of the answers to all these questions that each of the MPs here in this Chamber, if she wishes to receive an answer, could come and receive at the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Professor. Gechev. Honourable Members, I ask you very much that we do not seize the functions of other organs and suggest how they will be pronounced. Let's focus on the candidacy presented to us. The procedure, anyway, is already a fact. She's accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Slavov, you know very well that we supported you when you rightly wanted to end the KPC procedure, there is a printout of the vote, but I want to tell you something else important. Here, from this tribune, my colleagues and I warned more than three months ago, there are records that we are lag behind and are about to elect a C.F.R. President. In the Budget Committee here are the Presidents, Members of the Commission, my colleagues and personally I have repeatedly reminded the President of the Commission that the deadline is running out. Isn't that right? This is documented and documented. It is not our fault that the ruling coalition cannot fully understand who their representative should be. Democracy gives them the right. They have a majority to offer. They had internal party contradictions, could not resolve the matter until the last moment, which forced the Rules of Procedure. BSP left Bulgaria is definitely against us taming the Rules of the National Assembly and playing with the Constitution when we have to make a certain choice. There is no such country, colleagues, in Europe, which chooses chiefs of major agencies and committees like this. People do it three or four months before the deadline runs out. Well, now there's gonna be a choice in the NOI. I think about two years is the down payment. I ask: on which Constitution will the mandate of the new Chairman of the NSI be? Will the two years count, or won't they count? Bulgaria is a unique country! It may turn out that in a four-year term, they stand for 15 years, because the government, for some reason or other, rotate the Constitution and the Rules as they please. Let us take the decision, set an example to state institutions, behave according to the Constitution and make our choices when we have to. Now you've cut the deadline to five days, including Saturday and Sunday. Next time we expect you to propose on Sunday night and Monday we choose directly?! And what's the point of choosing when we're in a circus like this? We're totally against it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u17	To speak, there is Mr. Yordan Tsonev. After him, Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support Karina Karaivanova's candidacy with the following motives. However, before that, I would like to remind you that we continue to believe that the procedure has been corrupted. We continue to think, and that is why we voted against the procedure and our speeches were critical enough and sharp enough. We continue to believe that the bad attitude that has imposed the procedure has caused image damage to the candidate herself today, so that, based on this poor position, from which the election of the President of the Commission for Financial Supervision starts, and from the fact that this body is entrusted with extremely responsible regulatory functions in the country, and from the fact that the moment that this choice will happen is particularly important for the non-bank financial sector, we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have decided to support the only candidate and our motives for this are not only that it is the only candidate, but because we know the qualities of Ms Karaivanova, as she worked in the Ministry of Finance and she has walked on the hierarchic ladder from below, including she used our trust when we were in management. It has been used, of course, with the trust of the other majorities and governments she has worked with, so it is sufficient to trust and give her a chance to manage this so important body at such a difficult and complex time. I would also like to say, on behalf of fellow Members of the Parliamentary Group, to address it with a few warnings, perhaps even a very strong word, but notes that should be taken into account. First, indeed, if it is elected, its mandate will begin to run under the conditions of a first asset review in the non-banking financial sector. Secondly, there will then be a stress test that has not been carried out in any of the Member States of the European Union. This further enhances responsibility for her. It also strengthens them because of the fact that she will enter this procedure with an unformed team and will have to do it Adhok. We hope that we will do it quickly and qualitatively so that the body can work at high speed and the change of team itself does not affect the work at this very important time. The movement for rights and freedoms really wants the non-bank financial sector to get a real asset assessment, a real assessment of its state, this assessment we hope will increase confidence in this sector, indirectly and throughout the financial sector. There is a need for this even more in the conditions in which these processes are taking place, and the crisis in Italy at the moment, and the turmoil in the entire financial sector in the European Union, so really the responsibilities before you, Mrs. Karaivanova, are very great and you need to be very careful because we also have our concerns. From the establishment of the body we monitor his work and in long periods of time he was dependent on various economic circles. Evidence of this is that the teams that worked at the C.F.R. then went to work in these economic circles. There wasn't even a delay, as they say the next day. I think you know these things and you won't let them. To be honest, I am worried about the support of some MPs from a parliamentary group, not for anything else, we have nothing against them, but behind their shoulders is looking at an instigated businessman with interests in this sector, who in the past had a serious influence on this body and did not hide his ambitions to have such influence and to be revised, as you hear from these lawmakers, to revise some decisions of the old leadership. Perhaps to revise, say, some files and signals to the prosecution about serious violations in this sector? We at the DPS are convinced that you will not do such a revision because it will not be at the service of the public, in the service of the financial sector, in the service of this regulation and will not be in the service of the Bulgarian economy at all. We wish you from the heart to be chosen and successful in your work! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u19	Any lines to Mr. Tsonev? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Martin Dimitrov. After him is Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, since I think the truth matters, it is important that we clarify and clarify it from this tribune because a short time ago a colleague from BSP, unfortunately, distorted the facts. The first procedure for choosing the KPC was terminated on my proposal, which was supported only by colleague Delyan Dobrev and his colleagues. Everyone else was against. Everyone else was against it! Mostly the BSP were loudly opposed to the BSP. They said: nothing that gave up the only candidate for president, the procedure to continue, it is very nice because then apparently the quota was secure and was in a hurry to finish the procedure, so that the BSP fellow who claimed that his party had supported my proposal to terminate the first procedure for choosing the KPC, said something that is not true and because the truth matters, colleagues, this must be, this fact must be clear to all of you. You were all on the Economic Commission. There are shorthands, there are witnesses. I am sure that BSP on this subject will be conveniently silenced and will no longer want to comment on it. We're moving on. Ms. Karaivanova, it is important that from now on the Commission is filled and that the seats of the people whose term has expired be offered serious professionals. It would be nice for you to announce a team from now on. I know you won't do it, but it would be good to do it this way. This is the most responsible and serious way. Next, colleagues, it is not good practice that we have one candidate for Chairman of the KPC. In these procedures of public hearings there must be a clash of ideas, there must be competition. Now you will tell me: "Why didn't you lift up? " - I know that you will say that. I even know who's gonna say it. The question is in the following direction. When more than a month ago, knowing that the term of office of the Chairman of the KPC expires, unlike BSP, we did not make simple words because words do not have the meaning of what is written. We wrote a draft decision and offered it to the Budget Committee. Alas, this draft decision was not addressed. If the procedure had started early enough, there would probably be more applications now, real competition and a choice. Regarding Mrs. Karaivanova. Don't get us wrong. I don't know you, and I don't mean to say anything wrong about you. In fact, I like you by reading a special press that I can define as yellow and that deals with you, but in your cases you will receive support or support for your actions from now on. In your cases, you will receive our assessment. I would therefore like to ask you: except for filling in the composition in which I ask you to take part from this tribune, because we have not all had the opportunity to attend this nice meeting of the Budget Committee because we are also participating in other committees. [[Replication of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova]] , we are busy enough, but we understand and we know that this is a wonderful Commission that we also go to when we can, so it is not bad from the platform of the National Assembly, Mrs. Karaivanova, to make a commitment to filling the composition and to make it so that people professionals from the sector can be appointed to do their job properly. If you can engage with names, even better! I'll bring up another subject. There was an informal conversation with you, with the Reformation Bloc. You must have had similar meetings with the other parliamentary groups, which is nothing unusual. This is good practice not only in Bulgaria, but also in most European countries. Then I asked you about the popular cases and the bad things, the bad practices that are happening in Bulgaria. What bothers me, Mrs. Karaivanova, is that whoever I ask about these popular cases, everyone says: "Ama is not my job!" When we ask the tax administration, they say: "We have very little commitment on this issue. "When we ask you, you say: "Yes, but this is not the main role of the Commission. The general supervision of the law is the prosecution. She says, "We have too many commitments, too much work." There is a concrete bill tabled again in this area on our part.. The Financial Supervision Commission is directly committed to controlling some of the so-called popular funds. On this subject, we would enjoy your more specific principled commitment. Your easiest answer is to say: If you write it in the Law, we will perform it. That's clear. This is about a more specific principled commitment. What's going on? If each institution waits for the other to do some work, the other one does a check, there's no verification at the end. These popular crates very much bother us, including these five, in whose name in the Trade Register we found that there is a name "Banca". So tightening control in the financial sector is one of the tasks that you are undoubtedly putting on yourself and we expect from you. If you take the floor, I will be happy with the specific that is more than to tell us that if we record a change in the Law, you will fulfill it. I hope you have a personal opinion on this important issue. Finally, there is bad practice in Bulgaria, by the way Bulgaria is different from all other countries in the European Union as mandates expire and the necessary people are chosen at a future time. I hope this is the last case. I call on the Bulgarian Parliament to be the last case and this bad practice to change. Before the expiry of the mandate has long enough time, do not stop the nominations of civil society, as you have done in these rules. There must also be civil organisations, as my colleagues in parliament said, who served foreign interests, quoting a report by the SANS. There must be, but that doesn't mean you're opposed to the entire civil sector. And in order for there to be competition, the candidate is not one, allow next time civil nominations. Let this be the last case in which the term has expired and the change takes place much, much later. These are bad practices with which Bulgaria is becoming famous. They must be terminated once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u21	Are there any lines to Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u22	Mr. Dimitrov, this is not the place to ask questions. The place was on the Budget Committee. Over two hours, the hearing continued. There were people who were not members of the Budget Committee, from different parliamentary groups, such as Mr. Boychev, who were interested in answering the questions. They came and got it. You should have come and got answers. And now, here in the National Assembly, we will debate what you are interested in! Even less, some popular cases that you have decided should be replaced by the C.F.R., and here in the Chamber Mrs. Karaivanova to give you her opinion on this topic! This is not work during the hearing, but as for the topic with which you want to continue to become popular, you also use this case. It was very interesting that from the questions you wanted to get an answer to, I found two important ones. One of them is the personnel questions. They're very important, aren't they? And the popular cases, which have been your theme lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u23	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u24	Mrs. Chairman! Ms. Stoyanova, when there was an informal hearing of Ms. Karaivanova in the group of the Reformation Block, which was probably what was in the other groups, some of our questions were answered by you instead, which is probably a concern, a responsibility on your part. Only let Mrs. Karaivanova answer! You've already proposed it. Don't take the answers on her behalf. It's not appropriate. I'm telling you this as personal friendly advice. And secondly, you resent that there are questions today for Mrs. Karaivanova. What's there to be here, just applause?! What do we do with these hearings and procedures if there are no questions here?! The questions aren't just in the Budget Committee. Members of the National Assembly are engaged in numerous committees and numerous commitments. They can't all come to the Budget Committee. And the argument that whoever wasn't on the Budget Committee to keep quiet forever, Mrs. Stoyanova, is not serious. Then get rid of these discussions! Why are we meeting in the hall today? Should we just vote?! Is that what you expect?! Let's vote and not ask! That's not gonna happen! If such practice exists in your party, it is not good practice. There must be parliamentary control, serious questions must be asked and serious answers received. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] I'm telling you this with all due respect. We cannot limit questions and answers. [[Reply of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Please let's hear from Mrs. Karaivanova. Otherwise I am very pleased to hear from Mrs. Stoyanova, but she is neither nominated nor elected today!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u25	The word for speech is Mr. Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u26	Dear colleagues, during the time of Mr. Stoyan Mavrodiev, the Financial Supervision Commission was absolutely defeated. The fact that three Vice-Presidents of the Commission have left is quite indicative. The fact that the Financial Supervision Commission has completely slept through its supervised entity CCB, which are bondholders participating in the Stock Exchange, is also sufficiently indicative. I am saying all this specifically for Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who during the debate what the procedure for raising, said: "Everyone who wants another procedure is for the stay of Stoyan Mavrodiev. Mrs. Stoyanova, I don't know if there are other people in this room, but I am currently on trial by Stoyan Mavrodiev, on trial for insult, slander, whatever it may be. On the contrary, he should have left a long time ago. A long time ago! However, I would like us to elect in the normal way a good President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Now I'm going to tell you why I'm not going to support this application. First of all, the procedure was absolutely and 100% corrupted. A five-day period, of which two days are Saturday and Sunday, with requests for documents that take days. Pulling a criminal record, if you're not from Sofia, takes three days. When is this guy supposed to do it? [[Replying and shouting.]] Legalization of a diploma, notary certification, if not from Bulgarian university translation. When is this guy supposed to do it? When do we talk to him, when do we convince him? I tried to convince one myself, and he said: "I can't get my papers together, I'm sorry. Why did we have to do it for five days, and from Friday night to Wednesday, when we could do it in seven days or two weeks, it doesn't matter first? Secondly, have you guys noticed that we have one single application now for the n-th time in a row? First time, KKK, second time KKK, C.F.R., NOI. Now we're waiting for the president to have only one candidacy. And Bulgaria became the country of the only candidates. Thirdly, the C.F.R. President is expected two things: to be politically independent and to be professional. How can he be politically independent Deputy Minister of GERB and second time Deputy Minister of GERB? I don't see such an opportunity. Once Deputy Minister in 2012 "2013," second time "Deputy Minister now." That's not gonna happen. A man who was independent of all parties had to be sought. And the last one for professionalism. I don't know Mrs. Karaivanova, although we've worked together for some time at the Ministry of Finance in separate portfolios, we haven't seen each other. I've bothered to read the biography. I've bothered to talk to colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. I didn't find a single person to tell me that she had expertise in the fields of pension insurance, supervision and supervision. He may be a professional in EU funds, he's in charge of foreign debt lately, a bunch of other things, but I didn't find any expertise in this area. How do you get in with a flying start at a time when there are these stress tests being done? In what way, given that by three vice-presidents, you currently have only one with a mandate in force and from now on two others need to be sought? I'm not going to ask Mrs. Karaivanova any personnel questions. I'm gonna ask her one question and I think she needs to answer here. It's not true that only the Budget Committee who came in asked. Why? I'm not with the Budget Committee. Why do I have to come over there and ask and not ask here? And if I don't have a right here, then why is she here? Just listen to us?! My question is: will there be a revision of the Stoyan Mavrodiev era? Because I heard from her that there wouldn't be, dealing with the past is a mistake. We can't have a future without a review of the past. All problems in the C.F.R. are rooted in the past. If we just blurt them out right now, and if what's going on there this week is going on to release some close friends of Stoyan Mavrodiev with five or six salaries just so that the new chairman doesn't come and fire them, what do we do? How are we going to make a supervisory body that is strong and that ultimately depends on both my pension and your pension and our insurance and insurance, insurance, insurance and pensions of millions of Bulgarians? This is not just another woman placed on some institution or another frame of GERB placed in some institution. This is something that depends on the money of each of you, us and the Bulgarian people. That's not how you do it. We could have easily had two, three applications. Why did we do it this way? Several consecutive choices on a single application, no clashes, no opinions, and now we have no right to ask questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u27	Any lines to Mr. Kadyev? I won't. [[National Representative Menda Stoyanova wants the floor for a reply.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, I would recommend that you sit ahead of the front bank. We're wasting time in your defiling... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u28	Mr. Kadiev, from those like you who label people on a variety of occasions, quality people, professionals who have worked and ascended, and have accumulated their expertise, do not want to take leadership positions. Mrs. Karaivanova is neither a member of GERB nor a frame of GERB. Ms. Karaivanova has a biography that shows that she is primarily an expert and has built her expertise regardless of who the government was. Just because Ms. Karaivanova is Deputy Minister of the Government of GERB does not mean that she is a party shot of GERB. Because of the label that you are trying to put on people, there will be no quality people in the government as either deputy ministers or as managers of certain institutions. As for the questions you want to ask here, since you could not attend the Budget and Finance Committee, you should have read the report. In the Commission's report there was a question, there is also a clear answer to the question that you now want to be answered by Ms. Karina Karaivanova: what will she do with the so-called revision of the governance? I do not deny the right of anyone here to ask their questions, but it is no coincidence in the procedure itself, and the Rules do not provide for a hearing in the Chamber itself, and this hearing is provided for by the Budget Committee and there is a detailed report with which anyone who has not been to the Budget Committee can be acquainted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u29	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u30	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you must have forgotten, but I remember a conversation in Minister Plamen Oresharski's office with Maria Murgina, with you and with me when they released you. Then I protected you. [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Do you remember this thing? Because I defended the professionalism of Menda Stoyanova as Director of the NRA in Plovdiv. I have no problem defending someone's professionalism if I see it. In this biography I didn't see this professionalism she may be an expert, I agree, but not in those three areas for which the C.F.R. is responsible. Are you ready to go out and say here: she is an expert in these three spheres and will handle the work at the C.F.R.S.? Because it is not the same to be an expert on EU funds, it is not the same, it absolutely has nothing to do with being an expert in any other area such as pension insurance, or investment supervision. Quite different things! Why are we arguing about something that's obvious?! As for your question about the answer, I read Mrs. Karaivanova's reply, and I did not like it. The answer was that he would not audit the management of Stoyan Mavrodiev, he would not look into the past. [[Replying and shouting.]] There can't be such an answer. I told you, you can't have a future without a review of the past! That's what I expect from her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u31	The word is Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to say that we will support.... I hope that we are not just these six, seven people, to come and the others, but in general we support the candidacy. I can't brag that I defended Menda Stoyanova from being released or that I hired her, I can't boast the same about Mrs. Karina Karaivanova. I'm gonna say a few words. First, the procedure. The fact is, it was premature. And that's it! The candidate's worth it. At least, because if we had others, we should have nominated them. I could've nominated myself, but I couldn't find anyone. Is that supposed to be my fault?! No, they didn't dare, they didn't decide, now she has to feel guilty for everyone else. With regard to the Commission, I have been to this Commission, yet I am Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. I'm very sorry, but it was before the extraordinary meeting, which was here in this building, upstairs. Anyone who would have wanted could have come the business came, came NGOs, came media, came representatives from other committees asking questions. Anyone who could write but who is too busy to come to this Commission could write the questions that concern him and give them to his colleague. No one was ignored during the Commission's time to ask questions that he saw fit. What were the questions? First of all, the previous Commission has built a new building or rehabilitated the old one and moved into it, moved in, what will be done with the building? This is a very original question. Will the new President of the Commission, if elected, go to a tent? Assuming that she wishes to live in a tent, should the Commission also work under these conditions? If we are opposed to an institution operating under normal conditions, then why are we voting Parliament and a number of money to build our building downstairs? For us a new building may be both good and normal conditions, but for the Financial Supervision Commission it could not because it seemed to us or should we attack one of the previous presidents? The other was whether to assess and review the Financial Supervision Commission. I apologize, each one of the Presidents and Mr. Chobanov, and Mr. Mavrodiev, I hope, and the next, will have his share, his contribution to building the institution, defending certain powers, in achieving certain successes or losses. Chobanov had certain commitments and a desire to do the job, but he couldn't do the job, it wasn't his time, he wasn't the man, he didn't have the parliamentary support... I am sure that Mavrodiev also wanted to achieve many other tasks, but did not succeed in some successful, in some not. It's with each and every one of us. Everyone has come their own way. If I am the next President of the Commission and I decide that Mr. Chobanov has worked very badly, accept that I purposely go down one step, not for the just-acting one, can I change, turn back time, say: Chobanov for this was wrong, so I will change it. It's in the past. Even if I like or dislike his work, she's passed, she's got her place. I can improve the work from now on, but how can I commit to things in the past when I can't influence them? Okay, I don't like Chobanov's work, so what? On the contrary, based on the experience that has been achieved all these years, the advantage is that now the ruling party, to which the people have given many votes and it can choose this President, supports this candidacy, and if it has to be through the Budget Committee, either through the others, to propose a legislative initiative, it would happen this initiative and help the work. I am convinced that if you ask the previous presidents of this Commission, they will tell you that it is much better to have parliamentary support for your intentions than not having any and that the parceling is not always good. I'm going to give you a case right now, the question that's being asked to a non-elected president is: Who will be your replacements to know if I should vote for you? It is a very important issue, but agree, there was one such plot of land in BNB, and it is precisely in connection with KTB that I say it, because now we are trying to hook Mavrodiev to KTB, to BNB about everything. There was a plot of land and it turned out that for the entire banking supervision there was only one person responsible for the others hid and became bosses at the moment. If the parcelling is imposed at all costs on the Financial Supervision Commission, do we not risk repeating our second CCB? The staggering in one direction and the other is different. In one we have collective responsibility, but we also have a chairman who carries the whole. On the other hand, we have a redistribution of priorities, but also an opportunity for some adverse phenomena to be concealed. In general, however, putting these conditions on her now sounds like: "Well, tell me if you'll choose my man as your vice president, so I know if I should vote for you?" With regard to NGOs, I apologize, but here Mrs. Menda Stoyanova made a big mistake. It's nice to bring in two or three non-governmental organizations to say, "We really like her, we've even done her a psychoportrait, profiler, and I don't know what you are. Now that some non-governmental organisation has to take into account the budget of creating a profiler or some kind of media appearance for the candidate, it's wrong. We have 40,000 NGOs. Why did only one person agree? If one is for........................... the others have disagreed........................................................... Should we list those who didn't make such a portrait? We didn't need to involve NGOs, legitimize them, specifically mention certain media names and advertise them on national television and on the Internet without need. Yeah, they have a right to like her, they have a right not to like her. Just because three people like her doesn't mean the other 3,000 don't like her and we don't have to count them and measure them. The fact that she's the only candidate, if there's only one for president what? We're not choosing a president? Well, if there were other candidates, for example, they didn't find the strength, they didn't find the courage, they didn't decide, they didn't run. I had the chance, but no one turned to me. I believe that this proposed application should be chosen, we listened to it. It would be very amusing to say that of all the candidates she did the best she could, only the others were gone. She must assume her cross after giving her consent, after having gathered the courage to appear, others did not even dial that. Let it be proposed to vote that this endless procedure be terminated and that all who could not ask questions should be angry with themselves rather than Menda Stoyanova and the Commission, which was here in this building, immediately before the start of the extraordinary meeting and anyone could, even by delegation, ask their questions. I believe that it meets the necessary conditions for this activity to begin. I think we should not burden her with the unexpected, and we should see what she will do from now on, not look into the past, which should be remembered and known, but in no case should it be an obstacle to her career growth and her future. One thing I agree with Mr. Kadyev is that our money in the second insurance pillar stands there in these pension insurance companies. We're all interested when it comes time to retire, except for the part of the NSI, to take our full money that's there. I sincerely wish her success and I have a personal interest in her doing and working well so that when the time comes, life and health, if I live to get my pension, that is true for all of us. I ask that we put to the vote, interrupt this procedure and move on to our main activities, which are extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u33	Your proposal to end the debate is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u34	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u35	You correctly withdrew him. Is there anyone else who would like to take a stand? Here you go, Mr. Boychev. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] Mr. Kadyev, you've already spoken. You for speaking or for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u36	Mr. Kadiev wanted a line, I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u37	He can't get a line because they used their five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am tempted to take part in this procedure, given that once again an attempt has been made to seek indulgence through the BSP for this distortion of the rules for the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Examples of the procedure that preceded the Commission for Protection of Competition began to be given. I'd like to tell the moral centers on the right what it was about there. There was a question of keeping the former President of the Commission for Protection of Competition for as long as possible until all the important public procurement in the country, which interested Prime Minister Borisov, and you, reformers, were part of this performance for the KPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u39	Let us concentrate on the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u40	As it was the subject, Madam President, an example of today's discussion. What's the unpleasant thing I'm finding? The rule of law is fundamental in the current constitutional state, and this principle also requires the National Assembly, just as every Bulgarian citizen, to implement the acts adopted and the laws of the country. The purpose of the written rules in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is precisely to ensure the publicity of the procedure and the opportunity to participate in a maximum number of candidates, to find the good place of the non-governmental sector, the media, to have the opportunity to get acquainted with them, to ask these questions. All of this, unfortunately, has been corrupted. You have also done a very bad service to the candidate you nominated with this crushed procedure in essence. More importantly, we have thus escaped the great question of the very nature of the activity of the Financial Supervision Commission for the tasks and responsibilities it has, and we have dealt fully with the procedure. Maybe that was the point of what you did. Unfortunately, for me there remain great doubts, they remain in the Bulgarian society, namely on the future work of the Financial Supervision Commission. Rather, my feeling is that it is an attempt to control the upcoming asset reviews of pension and insurance companies, an attempt to control this procedure, as you know that there will be huge interests and the Commission will essentially determine who fulfils the conditions and who is in what condition of these supervised entities. There remains doubt that it is about control of some 8 billion that are located in pension companies. Several times the Minister of Finance was the initiator of this type of proposal. What remains to think after the Deputy Minister of Finance goes and takes over the Financial Supervision Commission. And perhaps most importantly, the way in which we elect a Chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee is currently torpedoing any hope of independence of the work of another important regulator in Bulgaria. Otherwise, the application may definitely be strong because it personally receives very strange support from all major economic structures that have interests in this area. This is very strange for me. [[GERB lines.]] I am glad that the BSP was not part of these agreements, it was not part of these negotiations and resisted the whole procedure in principle and consistently, its positions. With interest, I will observe the vote and how and which political groups will support this candidacy, this metamorphosis and a change of position that they experienced during these days until Mrs. Karaivanova's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u41	Any lines to Mr. Boychev? I won't. Anyone else willing to take a stand? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I felt summoned to this tribune by Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who with good, I hope, mentioned my name several times and appreciated my contribution to the Commission's development. Indeed, the appeals heard from this platform for the regulator's independence are very important. They're also the most important. In other words, a regulator, in order to do his job properly, must be independent. Of course, it is difficult for this independence to win back and demonstrate itself in every action of the Commission, especially when the candidate is inevitably elected on the line of political choice, but it is and cannot be otherwise. From then on, his actions will now depend on how independent he is. It is easier to be independent when the majority, which elects it, passes into opposition, but then risking it, like six years ago, its mandate to continue briefly, so maybe this is not a solution either. Here was also mentioned the Commission's building. This is not a minor issue, as is not a minor issue for the buildings of other state or public institutions that are in private buildings and therefore spend not a small part of their budget. So if gentlemen of the government want to help optimize the budget, they can also think of a building that is public property, and that will release resources for the Commission's real, real work. The budget is really very important, and if the president, who will be elected, enjoys the same support from the government, as the current President was appointed, let the government double the budget for the next six months of the year. That's what they did to Mr. Mavrodiev. I think it would be fair to the new chairman. Here in this Chamber, I see two colleagues who were then represented in possession of the Commission, Mr. Mavrodiev. Maybe now they'll take possession of Mrs. Karaivanova. I hope that their support for Mrs. Karaivanova will be more lasting than that of Mr. Mavrodiev. [[Heckling]] As far as the candidate's expertise is concerned, and that is why we support her, I have no doubt about him. I had the opportunity to work with her, she demonstrated good professionalism, the ability to lead a team and work as a team, and I wish her to deal with the new challenges. In addition to the independence it needs to demonstrate, we expect concrete ideas and initiatives from it to improve the overall development framework in the markets and to enable better development of the Commission. Let it, together with the government, consider the organisation of supervision itself and the possibility of it being functional, that is to say, one person in charge of licensing, another person in charge of supervision and so on, as these are processes that are similar in their nature and only in this way will be overcome the parcelling and feudalisation of individual sectors in the Commission. I wish her success and there will be support for serious initiatives aimed at developing the market! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u43	Any lines to Mr. Chobanov? I won't. Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to be brief as the debate progresses. Mrs. Karaivanova, I hope you're not embarrassed by the debate in this room. The opposition's job is to criticise because it thus motivates its negative vote when it does. As a matter of fact, I listened very carefully and did not hear any substantial criticism of your candidacy, only that the deadline was shortened from seven days to five days. To tell you the truth, whether there are seven, whether there are five days, for the choice and for this procedure is known for months at least three months, so everyone who has been willing to make a proposal has had the opportunity to do so. So much for the fact that there's only one candidate. Nobody stops the MPs or the parliamentary groups from giving as many applications as they want. Obviously, however, or perhaps, your candidacy, which has been straining in the past few weeks, has embarrassed colleagues because they cannot offer such a good application as the application GERB made, and they have decided not to embarrass themselves. You should not worry about the media publications we have seen in some media in the last few weeks. In my opinion, what you should be worried about is your work from now on, because today we will elect you by a large majority. There is, however, a huge challenge ahead of you. As Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, you have a very important patient. This is the capital market in Bulgaria and it will not be exaggerated to say that this patient is on artificial breathing, it may be even worse. This patient is in a coma, and you must do something to revive, first, this patient and then give him strength because this patient is extremely important for the development of the economy in the country. Two thousand and seven, two thousand and eight years the turnover of the capital market is around 8 billion. lv. For last year there will be 400 million, for this year there will probably be about 300, even maybe not 300. From 8 billion to 400 million is a 20-fold difference between the decline of 20 times the stock market's turnover. If this year is 300, it will become more than 20 times the decrease in turnover, i.e. there is no liquidity in this market. On the other hand, developed economies have a market capitalization rate for gross domestic product of more than 50% developed economies, the most developed have 100 to 150%. In 2007-2008, when the patient was alive, we still had a capital market that helped develop the economy, the capitalization of the market to gross domestic product was 50%, i.e. the capitalization of the market in proportion to the country's gross domestic product was 50%. Currently, the capitalization of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange is below 7 billion between 6.5 billion and 7 billion, with gross domestic product over 80 billion. This means that the capitalization to the gross domestic product is currently below 10%'s 7, 8, 8.5%, given that 2007-2008 was 50%, i.e. in this case we also have a 7.8-fold reduction in the stock market's capitalization. There is another alarming trend and this is that the last few days we read in the media that there are large issuers, large public companies on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, which are considering sharing. Thus, confidence in the capital market in Bulgaria is so lost that not only are there no new issuers, new IPOs, but existing companies, and not small companies, with a capitalization of more than 100 million. lv. They're considering leaving the stock exchange. This is also an extremely important trend. On the one hand, you must inspire confidence in the issuers that there will be a capital market and it will develop in order not to leave the capital market in Bulgaria and, on the other hand, we must do everything possible to revive this capital market and to have new primary public offers, we hope more than one or two, as we have seen in the last few years, because the same years Here I did not make a mistake by saying "we" although you are Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, because on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, and I am sure that from the other colleagues, we will always support you for legislative changes in the direction of the capital market in the country. If necessary and in the opinion of people in the sector, simplifications and accelerations of procedures, relief of issuers, relief of investment firms in relation to the capital market, you will always meet our support in our own person. This should bother you, not the speeches of colleagues, which are quite common. To tell you the truth, we have listened to much sharper debates, sharp negative explanations from opposition colleagues, so nothing scary has happened today, but what is a challenge should bother you to the extent that we all together do the maximum to change this trend in the last few years. One final clamp will open: the capital market in Bulgaria has not recovered, unlike the capital markets in neighbouring countries. There, too, in the years of the crisis, especially in the first years, there was a huge decline in market capitalization, turnover and so on. However, Bulgaria's neighbouring countries are already reaching pre-crisis levels, and we are very far away from them. So in this case, we cannot talk about any global trend or trend in Southeast Europe. On the contrary, it speaks of a local phenomenon, a local market distortion, which, in my opinion, is largely due to a lack of confidence. You will meet our support. Good luck to you. I am sure that you will be elected to the vote in a moment with an impressive majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u45	Any lines to Mr. Dobrev? [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev.]] You've been using your time for five minutes, Mr. Kadyev. Five minutes for a single MP who does not belong to a parliamentary group and a total of 10 minutes for all non-participants. The line is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u46	Madam Chairman, Mr. Dobrev! I was listening to the discussion and I wasn't going to get involved, but your speech, to tell you the truth, has really puzzled me for two reasons. The first is that you do not seem to have understood what happened in the world's economy and finances in the last 7 years. These good features that you gave for the capital market in 2007 - 2008 - seem to have forgotten that they were followed by the global financial crisis and the collapse of these financial balloons. Do not laugh, Mrs. Stoyanova, because there were other people who worked in the area of finance before you and they were not from your sector who said that Bulgaria would not be affected by the financial crisis. Yes, that is why I say that we are faced with many puzzling findings of people who make the most important management decisions in the country, and it turns out that you cannot appreciate what has happened. Yes, indeed in Bulgaria the capital market has not been developed. There are its own reasons outside the common European and global trends, but not to realize that this is one of the fundamental reasons for this sharp difference in the paces in the movement of capital markets is strange. And the other thing you're referring to the new candidate as a demand for how to move the capital markets. Is this not the main responsibility of the management, except, of course, of spontaneous economic processes, of the whole economic environment, because the development of the exchange is not a direct function of the supervisory authorities, but of the management, which should create more conditions for them to become an attractive place of exchange, to see the different economic actors. So how will you help in the development of the stock market, on the capital markets is one irrelevant... It is only through proper regulation that it must increase confidence in capital markets, but these are indirect and follow-up actions, and not regulatory ones, which appear to be missing at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u47	Second line? A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u48	Dear Mr. Stoilov, I'm not sure I fully understand your line. I'm sure you're a very good lawyer, but in the case of economic development, I couldn't understand your thesis. Maybe sometime we can comment on it outside the stage of the plenary. What happened to the financial crisis in 2009, I mentioned that its effect on capital markets was within two to three years. From 2012 to this day, we have observed a recovery of capital markets. Even in the U.S., some of the indices surpassed their pre-crisis levels. So the capital market has recovered worldwide, has not recovered in Bulgaria. With regard to the fact that not only the Financial Supervision Commission has concerns and responsibilities for the recovery or revival of the capital market, I fully agree with you. We need both the executive power and the National Assembly where certain policies are required or legislative changes to be made, we also need to help, assist in improving or reviving this capital market. One thing is undoubtedly that if there is no capital market in Bulgaria as there is not at the moment, the Bulgarian business will rely solely on bank financing. While in the normal world you have, on the one hand, an opportunity to finance yourself through banks, on the other hand, you have the opportunity to finance yourself through the capital market. And usually the capital market is the stronger growth tool for companies, especially medium and large companies. In Bulgaria, they do not have the opportunity to be financed through the capital market because it has tragically low turnovers, there is tragically low capitalization, there is no confidence in this market and that is why we must all make efforts to change this. I therefore declared to the future Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission that he will receive our support for any good idea towards restoring the capital market in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u49	Mr. Bayraktarov has the floor. [[Sighs: "Eeeee! " and "Oooh! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I know that many people are asking for the choice to pass quickly, but there are still important things to be said today to be put to the attention of, in my opinion, the new Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. Naturally, it would be very good for such an important position to have serious support, because it is nevertheless about supervisory functions and problems and issues which, unfortunately, stand on the agenda with regard to the functions of the Financial Supervision Commission. It is good to recall, honourable Members, that February of last year this same National Assembly voted and chose a temporary committee to establish the work and condition of the nine pension funds and the tenth which is registered but has not worked. In fact, what is the point, and what should be brought to the attention today? There are more than 10 billion in pension funds at this time. 500 million private capital. However, there is still an extremely important issue that no one is paying attention to, and I am putting it to the attention of the future president of the Financial Supervision Commission. This is the question of the related parties. When some people get up and say that there should be a capital market in Bulgaria, that it should develop. "Yes, it is right, only so far the good things end. In fact, the capital market is at the heart of the development of each economy. We may be entitled today to receive answers from the future Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission in several directions. The first direction is what team will the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission propose? Who will be her vice-presidents? Because this is extremely important. The insurance sector, which is extremely important, the other large sector for which there is very serious work, the supervision of pension funds. What legislation today will we be offered as a form for future changes in this direction? Because to this day, it is clear that we want to develop the capital market and, at the same time, with several laws, this capital market is so closed that there is no chance of developing. For example, the private capital of the Bulgarian people over 10 billion. 500 million, which stands in pension funds, at this time, according to official data brings a yield of 1.7%, which is a minor low value. It cannot carry more profitability, provided that more than 60% of the operations that these companies can make are targeted, notice, colleagues, towards the purchase of securities, but mainly in the European Union. So we're a donor, and with the funds, we're talking about the $10 billion. 500 million, we are not developing the Bulgarian economy, but, as the poorest country, we are developing the economy of the European Union. That's unacceptable. There's another two billion. and $500 million in the so-called Silver Fund, with the long name for support of the pension system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u51	Time's up. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u52	I am finishing, Madam President, but I just want to draw attention to these accents because they are important. Two billion and five hundred million is zero yield. We don't even get income from interest. That's $2 billion. 500 million, with which we must support our pension system. Here, these are important questions that need to be raised today and made clear. Finally, we are waiting for real answers to these questions... how does the President of the Financial Supervision Commission see the solution to these issues, because you, dear Mrs Karaivanova, know that the Financial Supervision Commission under art. 13 of the same Law has supervisory functions and these functions must provide an answer to a socially important question How many of these operations with these connected individuals will come to light? How much of this capital will be returned to the Bulgarian people? Because at this point the Bulgarian people have paid 3 billion. 400 million. It's not her fault. It's not her fault. Thank you. I hope you get maximum support, but also give an answer to these questions that I am putting here today from the stands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u53	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Procedure? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! In the context of a procedure, Madam President, please tell Mrs. Karaivanova that if she wishes, she can take the floor and answer the questions asked. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] These were placed by colleagues from the group of the Patriotic Front and our group. If he wants to, he doesn't have to, but there is a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u55	Mr. Slavov, you're abusing rights. The procedure in a way is to me. I do not have the authority of the Rules of Procedure, personally, either of the Members of the National Assembly, to invite them to speak either of the guests present in the Chamber. I'm giving anyone who wishes to take a stand, but I have no right to call. And now I'm asking: is there anyone who would like to take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u56	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u57	I won't. The debate is closed. I invite the Members of the House to vote. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED He elected Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova-Ganozova as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. We vote. Vote 174 MPs: for 139, against 24, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Karaivanova, come in for an oath.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u58	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the implementation of the objectives of the Financial Supervision Commission by guiding myself by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in the fulfilment of the obligations conferred on me by the Law. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u59	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Before we move on to the next item of our programme, a procedure related to the agenda in our weekly programme. As we agreed yesterday, t. 10 The parliamentary control was intended to begin after the completion of the previous three points in our programme. It turns out that it is unpredictable when Parliament's legislative programme will end tomorrow, which is why the members of the Council of Ministers are embarrassed in view of their commitments, which is why I propose that Parliament's control for tomorrow be dropped. I remind you that the previous Friday we had parliamentary control all day, there are no accumulated issues, and at the beginning of the autumn session there is no obstacle to putting the whole first Friday into Parliament's control. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We vote. Vote 137 MPs: 114, against 10, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The next item is: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR TERRORISM PROCEEDING. Reports of committees to which the bill is allocated. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. Mr. Lazarov, we're listening. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, please vote for admission to the Chamber the following persons: Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Director of the State Agency of Intelligence, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Security Agency, and Mr. Petar Toshkov, Chief Inspector at the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u61	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The Quaestors, please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u62	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. At its meeting held on 14 July 2016, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed the Anti-Terrorism Act, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Philip Gounev, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, Deputy Minister of Justice, General. Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, Brigadier General Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Service of Military Information. The bill was presented by Mr. Philip Gounev, Deputy Minister of Interior. He pointed out that the terrorist threat has been growing in recent years. The attacks on European territory in 2014, 2015 and 2016 are proof that this risk can also become a reality for Bulgaria, which requires the reaction with a view to adapting to the new threats. To this end, the proposed anti-terrorism bill has been drawn up. Countering terrorism is carried out by many state authorities. Their effective interaction, and hence the effective counter-terrorism, requires the adoption of a targeted Law, the ultimate objective of which is the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, in particular the right to life and the right to physical and mental integrity. Therefore, a significant part of the proposed provisions are devoted to the prevention activity. In this regard, the criteria for determining the relevant levels of threat as well as the measures applicable to the individual stages of preparedness are set out. It is envisaged that the Minister of Interior by order to determine the level of threat and the level of readiness to which ministries, offices, districts, municipalities and sites should pass. Preventive measures are proposed to be taken where data are available from which it may be reasonable to assume that a person is related to the preparation of terrorism. The measures are: ban on changing residence without authorisation, ban on leaving the country without authorisation, ban on visiting certain places, areas and sites, ban on leaving a certain place without authorisation, ban on contact with certain persons, periodic appearance in the regional management of the Ministry of Interior, withdrawal of passports and subpoenaing documents and ban on issuing new ones, and are imposed by the President of the State Agency of National Security and by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior for a period of up to 6 months. The bill proposes regulation for the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation in the event of a specific threat to a terrorist act or a terrorist act. Temporary measures and restrictions concerning rights and freedoms shall apply to such an operation. It is also intended that in the event of terrorism on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, from which death or damage to the health of many has occurred, property damage or damage to the economy of particularly large proportions, or significant consequences for the environment, of the whole or part of the territory of the country, may be declared emergency with the resulting necessary restrictions on rights and freedoms. The participation of the armed forces in the prevention of terrorism and in overcoming the consequences of terrorism is regulated and the armed forces should exercise police powers under the Ministry of Interior Act when participating in this activity. Compensation is envisaged for natural and legal persons for actual damage caused to property in or on the occasion of statutory actions to prevent and cross a threat of terrorism or to address the consequences of terrorism. The Transitional and Final Regulations provide for amendments to other laws. The Law on State Agency "National Security," the Special Intelligence Means Act, the Ministry of Interior Act, the Law on Electronic Communications and others. They are all aimed at creating an effective mechanism for carrying out counterterrorism activities by the competent authorities. In the discussion, support for the bill expressed MPs Miho Mihov, Metodi Andreev, Kamen Kostadinov and Dimitar Lazarov. They described it as timely and necessary and noted that some controversial or problematic issues could be resolved after the adoption of the first vote. Mr. Lazarov stressed that the Bill clearly regulates the rights and obligations of citizens, as well as the powers and responsibilities of the state authorities, which is an important condition for effective countering terrorism. MPs Atanas Merdjanov, Philip Popov and Dimitar Dubov said they would not support the bill. According to them, it is unnecessary, it is not clear enough, it does not contain sufficient guarantees for citizens' rights, much of its regulations repeat such by other laws. The bill was not supported by the MP Atanas Atanasov. He pointed out that the Bill suffers from a number of common deficits and declared itself against the restoration of SANS police powers and the introduction of a special order for the use of special intelligence tools to counter terrorism. Representatives of different institutions took part in the discussion. The Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov supported the draft by pointing out that the armed forces are now maintaining a state of readiness to respond to terrorist threats, but the Law will further support them because it proposes a clear legal regulation of their powers in this direction and clearly regulates the interaction between all participants in anti-terrorism operations. The need for a clear legal basis and, hence, his support for the Bill also expressed Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The need for the granting of police powers to the National Security Agency in relation to countering terrorism was justified by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Security Agency. The President of the State Agency of Intelligence also supported the Bill, pointing out that it will contribute to overcoming gaps in the prevention of terrorism and increase coordination between different structures and bodies. The Attorney General described the bill as necessary. The allowed restrictions on citizens' rights, according to him, are at a reasonable minimum and are always subject to judicial review, which is the most serious guarantee against possible abuse. Following a discussion and a vote of 11 votes, without the vote, the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. With the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order you will be acquainted with its Chairman, the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602 01 42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. At its regular meeting held on 20 July 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602 01 42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from: Ministry of Internal Affairs "Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, and Petar Toshkov, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov. The proposed draft law includes provisions on countering terrorism in order to prevent and eliminate the causes and conditions which contribute to the execution of such acts, the development of mechanisms and indicators to identify, monitor and assess risks, minimise or eradicate the consequences of terrorism and prevent, cross-border, detection and investigation of such crimes. The ultimate objective of countering terrorism is the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens and, in particular, the right to life and the right to physical integrity. The project provides for the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the National Counter-Terrorism Plan, which establishes an organisation for disclosure and information, coordination of the actions of the competent authorities of the executive and local authorities, response and management of the powers and resources of the authorities of the executive and local authorities to prevent and cross the conduct of terrorism, the distribution of duties and the responsible authorities and persons to implement the measures envisaged, and also to address the consequences of terrorism. The project also sets out the criteria for determining the relevant threat levels as well as the measures that apply to individual preparedness levels. It is envisaged that the Minister of Interior by order will determine the level of threat and the level of readiness to which ministries, offices, district and municipal administrations and sites should pass. According to the Project, the preventive measures will be imposed by the President of the State Agency "National Security" or by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. It is explicitly envisaged that these preventive measures should be imposed for a period of up to 6 months, such as the orders for their imposition, which essentially constitute forced administrative measures, be subject to immediate enforcement and may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. The bill proposes regulation for the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation in the event of data on a specific threat. Temporary measures and restrictions concerning certain rights and freedoms shall apply in the conduct of this operation. It is regulated that the armed forces participate in the prevention of terrorism and in overcoming the consequences of terrorism, and that the armed forces, when involved in this activity, have some of the police powers provided for by the Ministry of Interior Act, namely: identity checks; checking personal effects of persons; inspection of premises; search of premises; arrest of a person; use of physical force, aids and weapons where this is absolutely necessary. The draft provides that the funds for the provision of tasks related to counter-terrorism activities and the additional forces and means involved in the conduct of an anti-terrorism operation or in the event of a declared emergency are provided by the State Budget Act and provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the relevant senior authorising officer with a budget. The Transitional and Final Provisions provide for amendments to several laws aimed at creating an effective mechanism for carrying out counter-terrorism activities. The amendments to the Law on State Agency "National Security" for the effective implementation of the functions of prevention and detection of terrorism and related crimes are envisaged changes which give the authorities of the State Agency "National Security" police powers, but only those related to the specific functions referred to in art. 4... terrorism, extremism and related activities. The proposed amendments to the Special Intelligence Means Act aim at creating a special order for the use and implementation and control of the use of special intelligence means and resulting results with regard to terrorism in order to enable effective countering of this serious crime. This row concerns crimes under Chapter 1 of the Penal Code. For the purposes of countering crime, preventing terrorist acts and limiting illegal migration, the Ministry of Interior Act creates a legal opportunity for officials in state bodies, organizations and legal entities to become cover officers of the Ministry of Interior. There is also a similar hypothesis for employees of the State Agency of National Security. The participants in the discussion were Ivan Ivanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Dimitar Delchev, Valentin Radev, Rosen Petrov, Atanas Atanasov and Svetoslav Belemezov. The speeches of Ivan Ivanov and Atanas Merdjanov highlighted the speed with which a similar bill was adopted and urged the work on it to continue, but not to rush. According to them, the main disadvantage is the lack of financial and personnel resources in the sector. In response to the speeches the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Rosen Petrov pointed out that the adoption of the bill was even late. The issue of countering terrorism is on the agenda and the adoption of such a law gives sufficient tools to the services and regulations how to act in a specific terrorist threat and after a terrorist act is carried out. Dimitar Delchev pointed out that such a law is already a fact in many European countries such as France, Italy, Belgium, Poland and others. In support of the bill was also expressed by the national representative Valentin Radev, who pointed out that with his adoption we are taking a step forward. In evidence of this, Valentin Radev pointed out that in no other legal act there are such well-systematized texts for prevention, something that makes the Law extremely good. Serious criticism of the bill was made by the people's representative Atanas Atanasov, who said that a large part of the bill occupy transitional and final provisions, which is a clear sign of imperfection. Criticism was also aimed at restoring the police powers of the SANS and the introduction of a special order for the use of special intelligence means to counter terrorism, because the situation implies a timely response to a possible threat. The representatives of different institutions spoke in support of the draft. The Deputy Minister of Defence, Atanas Zapreyanov; Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Security Agency and Dragomir Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency. They all united around the thesis that the adoption of such a law will contribute to overcoming gaps in the prevention of terrorism and will increase coordination between different structures and bodies. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. With the report of the Defence Committee, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Ianko Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. At a regular meeting held on 14 July 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior Georgi Arabadzhiev, Chief of the Office of the Military Police (Military Police), Brigadier General Borislav Sertov, Director of Operations and Training at the Ministry of Defence Colonel Ivan Ortomarov and experts from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The bill of reasons was presented to him by the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tsipov. The proposed anti-terrorism bill aims to create an effective mechanism for countering terrorism with the participation of all state authorities involved in this global problem. The draft law includes provisions for an adequate response to changing terrorist threats. These activities help reduce the risk of terrorism. The ultimate objective of countering terrorism is the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, in particular the right to life and the right to physical and mental integrity. The project takes into account compliance with the obligations relating to the fundamental rights of citizens. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 of the bill is regulated the participation of the armed forces in preventing and overcoming the consequences of terrorism. It is intended that, when participating in this activity, the armed forces should have the powers under art. 70, 72, 80, 81, 83, 85 and 87 of the Ministry of Interior Act. Such activities are: carrying out a check for the detention of persons, search of persons, checking of personal effects, checking of premises without the consent of the owner, identification, use of physical force and assistance and use of weapons if absolutely necessary. They will only be implemented by the armed forces in the activation of plans to prevent or overcome the consequences of a terrorist act. In accordance with the provisions laid down in the Law, the armed forces shall draw up plans to counter terrorism which are part of the National Counter-Terrorism Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers. In the event of an existing specific threat of a terrorist act or such carried out, the head of the National Operations Headquarters shall implement the National Counter-Terrorism Plan. The National Operations Headquarters shall include responsible officials from the political and military leadership of the armed forces who, upon activation of the National Plan, implement the plans of the armed forces to counter terrorism and implement their leadership. In their normal daily activities in the absence of these circumstances, the armed forces will perform their functions only in accordance with the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the debates on the bill took part the MPs Miho Mihov, Vladimir Toshev, Korman Ismailov, Atanas Zafirov, Yanko Yankov, Neno Vlaikov and Velizar Enchev, as well as the present representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior. In their speeches, the MPs united around the thesis that the proposed by the Council of Ministers The draft Law on Countering Terrorism is necessary and timely and will significantly improve coordination between state authorities to effectively counter terrorism in all its aspects. Our armed forces have extensive experience of participating in peacekeeping missions around the world. In the preparation of the contingent personnel there are also actions described in the enhanced powers of the armed forces participants in anti-terrorism actions and operations by the Ministry of Interior Act. The most important quality of a power law is not to cross the limits that define the Constitution for its implementation, and this requirement is well underlined in the Draft Law. Some of it, concerning the participation of the armed forces in countering terrorism, must find their place in the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the respective laws on the Reserve, Military Police and Military Intelligence, which are the main laws defining the actions and responsibilities of the servicemen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria states the order by which the armed forces are engaged in operations for the intersection of terrorist activities and in the security of strategic sites, which is a sufficient condition........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It should be clearly emphasised in this Law and in the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria at which level of threat the armed forces are attracted and how the readiness levels described in the Draft Law are agreed with the levels of readiness of the armed forces. The designation of the composition by the armed forces, which will be involved in countering terrorism and the eradication of the consequences, by an act of the Council of Ministers will limit the requirements for preparation of the new tasks and will preserve their main forces to carry out their functional tasks. This is a necessary condition due to the fact that the armed forces carry out tasks on the three missions designated by the defence regulations and their capabilities, structures, preparation and means of use are adapted to those missions. In the response of the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Defence were shared facts on the scale of the involvement of the armed forces and their preparation for participation in anti-terrorism actions which dispelled to some extent the doubts of the MPs that the armed forces would be entrusted with internal political tasks, in violation of art. 52, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The plans to counter terrorism include only a certain part of the armed forces, which will conduct enhanced anti-terrorism training. The powers given to the participants by the armed forces in the preventive actions and operations under the Ministry of Interior Act are their legal basis for participation, are activated with the introduction of anti-terrorist plans and do not cross the limit of eligibility of participation. They apply only to a degree defined by the Law, do not affect or replace the role of police, investigation and special services. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Defence with 12 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. According to the order of the President of the National Assembly, the last commission to which the bill is allocated is the Legal Commission. Mr. Kirilov, you're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. At its meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov and Mr. Philip Gounev From the Ministry of Defence: General Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov State Expert in the Directorate of Legal and Legal Activity. by the State Agency "National Security": Mr. Oleg Petkov Vice-President, and Mrs. Annie Gochkova Head of the Department of the Legal Activity Directorate. by the State Agency "Research": Mr. Petar Temelkov, Director of Directorate; From the Specialized Criminal Court: Mr. Georgi Ushev, Chairman. The bill was presented by Mr. Philip Gounev. Colleagues, allow me not to reproduce the basics of it, since you have met them at least three times. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Mihail Mikov, Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Delchev, Danail Kirilov, Philip Popov, Yavor Haytov, Dimitar Lazarov and Chavdar Georgiev. In the course of the discussion Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Delchev expressed their support for the bill, raising some questions about the integration of the functions of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, the deadlines for appeal of the measures, the obligation to register all foreigners in the Ministry of Interior and others. Mr. Kirilov explained that the aim of the bill is not to unite the two departments. He pointed out that when the state has two resources, it must create rules to use them. Mr. Haytov also expressed his support for the Bill and raised questions to the importers about the definition of terrorism, the rules in other countries similar to Bulgaria, as well as whether funding was provided. Mr. Mikov pointed out that there are provisions in the bill that contradict current laws. He raised questions about the participation of the armed forces in countering terrorism is settled in general in art. 7 concerning the ability of a soldier to carry out detention and surrender actions, as well as the need to specify detention sites and the time limit for detention from judicial supervision in respect of preventive measures and of clear signature of responsibilities. Mr. Popov added that the bill has the nature of extraordinary legislation and that this effect can be achieved by amending the current legislation. General Atanas Zaprianov pointed out that the fight against terrorism is now enshrined in the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, but is limited by the lack of a complete framework. Mr. Tzipov pointed out that it is special, not extraordinary legislation, and that such an arrangement already exists in a number of European countries. He also clarified that the Bill provides for reduced time limits in relation to the appeal of administrative measures, that the retention period is the statutory term in the Ministry of Interior Act, and that there are special texts on the provision of funding. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes for...... 3 votes against................... and 3 votes against..............................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the importer there is a Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u70	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am in a favorable position because, as an importer, after listening to the reports of the committees which examined this Draft Law, I can say that it is understood correctly, the......... is its potential effect and its philosophy. I thank all those who have shown this understanding and participated in the discussions. I can add a few things to the development of this Law and its offering to your attention. Of course, it reflects our assessment of the importance of terrorist risk both for our country and in a more global way, and as a result of the previous experience, taking into account the specifics of counter-terrorism, we felt that the intervention of numerous state authorities is required, the involvement of all levels of governance, and therefore the approach to settling matter in a special law is adopted. Such laws exist in several European countries. They were mentioned. We have done an analysis in them, and I think that the Law, which is proposed to your attention, to a very good extent, balances the special measures we propose and protects citizens' rights. It is very important that the Bill includes provisions for an adequate response to changing terrorist threats aimed at increasing the risk of terrorism. The ultimate objective of countering terrorism is the protection of fundamental rights, which I would like to point out, in particular, the right to life and the right to physical and mental integrity. Compliance with the obligations relating to fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens is reported. One important thing I would like to say from here and pay attention to you is that in order to create a national response system to a threat of terrorism or a terrorist act, it is envisaged the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a national counter-terrorism plan. Such coordinated plans shall also draw up the competent authorities of the executive and local authorities as well as the heads of strategic sites of national security importance. This means that all of us and at all levels of government are committed to the implementation of this Law. Only in this way can we guarantee security and protection against the threat of terrorism. Separate details were also indicated. I would like to draw attention to a topic that has sparked a public debate, which has shown that the understanding of this new, in essence, danger is not inherent to the general public, and it is extremely necessary to ensure an adequate and correct response to the population and, of course, public organisations and the media. I note that the proposed amendments to the Special Intelligence Means Act aim to create a special order for the use, application and control of the use of the Special Intelligence Means and their results in relation to terrorism. An extension of the time limits for the implementation of special intelligence means in respect of activities relating to the protection of national security in cases of the prevention of serious criminal offences under Chapter 1 of the special part of the Criminal Code is envisaged. For the purposes of countering crime, preventing acts of terrorism and limiting illegal migration in the Ministry of Interior Act, there is a legal possibility that officials in state bodies and organizations and legal entities may become cover officers of the Ministry of Interior after their appointment as a ministry office. This optimizes the existing model. A change in the Law on Electronic Communications shall lay down a deadline for the decision of the competent judicial authority on requests for information on traffic data where data are necessary to prevent and detect terrorist offences or terrorist offences under the Criminal Code. A ban is introduced on undertakings providing public telephone services through fixed and/or mobile terrestrial networks to register or activate in the name of one user more than 10 telephone numbers by which prepaid telephone services are provided. Users whose name is registered and/or activated more than 10 phone numbers will be entitled within 6 months from the entry into force of the Counter-Terrorism Act to state to the undertaking concerned which phone numbers they will continue to use. In the event that consumers do not exercise that right within the time limit, undertakings providing public telephone services via fixed or mobile terrestrial networks shall be obliged to disable all registered or activated telephone numbers in the name of the user concerned by which prepaid telephone services are provided. In cases of imminent threat of terrorism, undertakings providing public electronic communications networks or services will provide immediate access to traffic data on the basis of a request under the Law on Electronic Communications art. 251c, para. 1 which will be notified to the relevant court with a view to carrying out control. The amendments to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities aim at establishing a provision under which a non-profit legal entity is terminated when it is included in the list under art. 5 of the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing or there is evidence that it is operating to support terrorism. I thank in advance all those who will support this bill. It is extremely important for our work and I hope it will give the desired results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. First was the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I, together with many of my colleagues in the Reformation bloc, will support the Anti-Terrorism Act because, first of all, terrorism is no longer that hypothetical threat that was ten years ago, especially when it comes to Europe and especially when it comes to Bulgaria. If ten years ago terrorist acts and attacks happened worldwide once a month or once every few months, that is no longer the case. We can't turn a blind eye to such an existing reality. Secondly, is the topic of radical Islam. Radical Islam penetrates the world and Europe through all possible ways not only through people who are second, third generation already of Muslim origin in Germany, Belgium, France and other countries, but also through refugee pressure and over the Internet. It would be crazy for us not to realize that Facebook and modern technologies are a means of spreading and spreading terrorism, even in the smallest settlements, hypothetically and in Bulgaria. And in this situation we cannot wait for something to happen in Bulgaria to adopt legislation that will counteract and face the consequences of a possible terrorist act. As wise people say, as old people say: only the foolish and the foolish wait! The Law on Combating Terrorism is already late for Bulgaria. It's been under discussion for a year. I know it is legal, as you and your deputies have said at committee meetings in coordination, in coordination with other state authorities. The opinions of many experts have been taken. I also know that the experience he has abroad has been used. A number of countries have long since passed such a law against terrorism. The pros of this bill are first and foremost, the demand for a clear will to combat one of the greatest threats, if I may say so, the scourge for the development and modernisation of the civilized world, terrorism, which questions the fundamental values that we believe in and in which Europe believes. Secondly, the Law gives definitions of some concepts that so far have not been present in any Bulgarian law, such as the notions of terrorism, terrorism and so on. I will not dwell on the accuracy of these concepts and on whether they can be improved between first and second readings. Of course, they can be improved, but clarity in terms of basic definitions must exist because, as the security services share, in some situations it is difficult to press charges against a person who is involved in radical Islam or terrorism simply because there is no concept in the law so far. Third, the draft creates rules and procedures for interaction and coordination between institutions. And here is his very important role. He prescribes the steps, he gives the procedure how in case of a terrorist threat each institution acts, what responsibility it has and what tasks it has. However, I cannot ignore the deficits in the Bill, because there are some. Every law, good or bad, everyone has their own bad side. First of all, of course, the Anti-Terrorism Act provides for restrictions on rights, as well as all other legislations around the world provide for restrictions on rights in the event of a threat and of a terrorist threat. However, we, as MPs, must do our best to ensure that this restriction of rights does not happen at random. To this end, I also believe that a faster judicial control of measures to counter terrorism is necessary. Secondly, there is no deadline for anti-terrorist operations. Yes, the Home Secretary is announcing the start of an anti-terrorist operation, but only by his order it is cancelled. For me, the introduction of a deadline, as is the case in the emergency situation, is also necessary if the terrorist threat continues, it can be extended by the Interior Minister. It's also something we can think about more. More detailed rules can also be laid down for the registration of foreigners, especially for the purposes of the Ministry of Interior. Now, a bill is under way to amend the Tourism Act, in which hotels are obliged to register any foreigner staying there in a single register to which the Ministry of Interior will have permanent access, so the procedure can be eased. I have comments on the text, but this does not mean that I will not support the Bill at first reading, because we support it and vote for................................................................................. My right and duty as MP is when something I don't like, I make a proposal between first and second readings, which can do both opposition and governance. I therefore believe that, with regard to this Bill, we should try to be united in this National Assembly. We all know that fighting terrorism is not the work of one person or one country. This is the work of unification of the whole world, of all the world powers. Here I am referring to both Russia and America and Turkey and all those who together show clear will and take concrete measures to deal with terrorism. And I believe that this Bill is a good occasion for us here in the National Assembly to show together that we have the will at first reading to fight and counteract terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Delchev, I will be very brief. This bill is not, in fact, a bill to amend the Penal Code, because I hear other such statements that there are almost no prescribed texts on which to condemn persons and conduct pre-trial proceedings and judicial proceedings. Second, the main point of which I make a replica.................................................................................. 27, para. Article 2 and as general article 2. 27 says when and who ordered the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation, the beginning and the area of the operation. The second paragraph says: the anti-terrorist operation is terminated by order of the Minister when the threat of a terrorist act or the danger to the lives and health of the people in the event of such an act has been dropped. This is the criterion when the danger to people's lives and health has been reduced. There can be no time criteria. There is no way in the Law to record two hours, eight hours, ten hours, two days. In general, it is the same as the European Union's practice of protecting human rights for a reasonable period of investigation. There are no time criteria, so this criterion is the appropriate criterion. It is also provided for in the Law indeed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u76	Dear Mr. Delchev, dear Mr. Chairman! I'll be very brief. I thought I'd take a word for it. I liked the speech, but I have one request for you, as well as for everyone else who will speak or replicate. I ask you, in the framework of countering terrorism, not to use vague definitions such as Radical Islam. I am personally offended because I am an Orthodox Christian and the synonym of a Orthodox is orthodox. He's also radical. Please, when we talk about terrorism, religion, we live in a secular state, these two topics being separate. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, my appeal is to you as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u77	There's a difference between radical and orthodox! [[Noise and lines.]] Do you have a third line? [[Heckling]] Yeah, that was the way it was going, and that's why I answered. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lazarov, you are right. This is not a bill amending the Penal Code, although the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Bill provide for a number of amendments to other laws. I didn't mean at any point that this should be such a bill. On the contrary, the meaning of the Law is clear and I believe that this clear meaning we must support it. Let me respectfully disagree with your opinion that the deadline for an anti-terrorism operation is clear and precise. When the terrorist threat or danger to people's lives and health has been dropped, it is not very clear. This deadline can be abused, so to speak. It's possible. We must do everything possible as there are such decisions in the legislation, and I have given for example the state of emergency, because it is clearly introduced for no more than three months, let's say. It is said that there is a threat of terrorism and within these three months the measures under the Law are in effect. The Ministry of Interior may also carry out the actions under this Law, as well as the other authorities. After these months, hours or days, if the threat continues, let the minister say by express act. Again, to say that such a terrorist threat exists because otherwise we risk reaching the Minister of Home Affairs, not the one, but someone else or hypothetically, who can abuse the powers that this Law gives him. Mr. Anastasov, regarding the division of religions and the stigmatization of religions: I am the last person from whom you will hear separation or opposition of religions. Absolutely not! It's just that the whole world is talking about radical Islam right now, and it's normal to get into everyone's speech, but of course there are other radical currents, there are radical currents in other religions as well. We must talk about terrorism as such, as a threat, and we must take the necessary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u79	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. There are six other Members of the National Assembly who have signed up for a speech. That will, of course, happen after the interruption. The first of them is Ayhan Etem, after him Dimitar Dubov, and then Krasimir Karakachanov. I'm reporting them to you so that my colleagues can prepare for after the break. I'm calling an adjournment at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u80	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. According to the statements made by Members of Parliament, while we are aware that there are some rotations of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ayhan Etem has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly terrorism is the most ugly phenomenon in the modern world and it is imperative that the Bulgarian state has an adequate response to this challenge. We are all witnessing that terrorism has no borders, no religions, and decisive action is needed to deter it. The attacks on Europe and beyond, especially what has been happening in recent weeks, show that Bulgaria is also a potential threat and target of terrorist organizations. Undoubtedly, the proposed Anti-Terrorism Bill is necessary, but with contradictory content, which raises reasonable doubts about guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens. Does the draft proposed by the Council of Ministers guarantee these rights and the resulting consequences so as not to be abused? For such a Law it is extremely important to achieve a balance between the rights and freedoms of citizens and the needs of the security services in order to combat and prevent the protection and protection of the property and life of Bulgarian citizens more effectively. The main focus of the bill by importers is the motive for protecting human life. Yeah, but at what cost? At the price of freedom, at the price of proceeds from the achievements of Bulgarian democracy. However, I share the view that this ugly phenomenon must have an adequate response and we are ready to support this bill. It covers several activities that clearly outline the powers of the services, judicial control, regulate prevention, regulate the rights and opportunities with which the Bulgarian Army can participate in such an anti-terrorism operation. I say, "The Bulgarian Army" to answer the questions raised in the media as to why it is such an honor or opportunity for the army to acquire police powers. I would like to remind you that she has those under the Defense and Armed Forces Act in the event of a state of emergency. This, ladies and gentlemen, is our army. I don't see any contradiction in that. The preventive activity which allows partial and temporary limitation of the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens is regulated. Three levels of threat and four levels of readiness are introduced. I ask here and ask a question to the professional community, and I see that the special services manuals are also here: are these envisaged opportunities for preventive action in the submitted bill enough and should we not look for other solutions? The establishment of an integrated security system is of paramount importance. The contribution is therefore the National Counterterrorism Centre within the framework of the SANS under the general leadership of the Council of Ministers and the regulation of the rules for the conduct of such an operation. Yes, they may not be ideal, but they set the framework, the possibility afterwards, if the security services have overcome or violated their powers. It is a positive fact that the Bill provides the opportunity for the investigative agents of the National Security Agency to acquire police functions, for which we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have been consistent in examining the Law the previous winter, to provide these rights to the agents of the State Agency for National Security, so that they can have adequate powers over their obligations which they have towards the country. I can say that our parliamentary group will confidently and in all its size support this Bill, because we share certain values, and the most important of them is the provision and protection of human life. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. Etem. Are there any lines? I can't see. The word for speech has the People's Representative Dimitar Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's anti-terrorist bill is up-to-date in the context of the undisclosed war waged in Europe and throughout the world with terrorist groups associated with the Islamic State or others related to religious extremism, a colleague, not Islamic. In international legislative practice, there are several versions of laws relating to the fight against terrorism. First of all, there are specialized laws in which the countries that are most affected by terrorism are working - England, Russia, Israel, the United States and several others, including our neighbouring countries. The second group are countries where there is criminal legislation with enhanced elements for acts with indications of terrorism. Such are France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and some others. All other countries, including ours, terrorism crimes are treated in general order. Many countries, as we do, are in this option for now. In our legislation, the legal grounds for combating terrorism, except in the Constitution, are found in 11 other laws. With the bill tabled today, we aim to go to the group of countries that have a special Anti-Terrorism Act. Nothing wrong with that if the submitted Anti-terrorist Bill met the needs of the specialized Law. What are the greater shortcomings in our view of the submitted bill? First of all, as mentioned by the speeches of other colleagues, there is no definition of terrorism. For example, the US Law clearly states that terrorism is premeditated politically motivated violence against peaceful citizens or national sites in order to influence the mood of citizens. There's no record of that in my house. There is also no definition of terrorist activity, which is incitement or ordering terrorist activity. There is no definition associated with seeking responsibility for radical extremist motivated proposals related to terrorist activity. A reasoned proposal and a threat to terrorism has not been clarified. For comparison in the Russian law there are another 20 key definitions related to the theme "terroristism." Secondly, there is favoritism of the Ministry of Interior and a denigration of the role of the other factors of anti-terrorism activity. It should not be forgotten that 85% of the activity in the fight against terrorism is related to information analytic activity by means of prevention. In my opinion, this was most developed in the SANS, both intelligence services and significantly less in the Ministry of Interior. The third weak point is the delegation of police powers to Armed Forces officers. They are not sufficiently specified, even though there are two members of the Defence and Armed Forces Act quoted there. Under the current law on the Ministry of Interior, the police powers are 17. How many and which of them will be delegated to the servicemen are not sufficiently clarified. In fact, although poorly formulated, the tasks given to the Land Forces are still clear. However, it is not clear what the role of the Air Force and anti-aircraft defence is. The threat of air terrorism is one of the common phenomena around the world. The same applies to the Navy and the threats to the maritime line with terrorist activities. Nor is the function of chemical and biological formations shown. If the Land Forces are to be included at all, it is best that the current special forces brigade or part of it, which are fully military, be renamed and trained as a special operations brigade. The fourth moment. The draft law completely underestimates the role of the state border in countering terrorism. Surely more than 99% of possible terrorists penetrate the outside mostly across our green border. Internal factors are also possible, of course, and internal performers - so-called sleeper cells. In addition to border guards, additional measures must be taken to stabilize the checkpoint with representatives of the SANS and BOP. I would like to remind you that yesterday even the Prime Minister of Hungary at his meeting with the Chancellor of Austria said that Hungary is 100% protected from crossing migrants along the border with Serbia, and that there are 8,000 policemen and soldiers at the Hungarian border with Serbia. To the problem of the border, we could also address some issues related to migration. The strangest thing about everything we read in the reports of the State Agency for Refugees is that 99% of refugees leave the camps that are for them. They move around the country where they want to, others move to next countries, but there is no control over their behavior in Bulgaria. The fifth and last thing I would like to mention about this Law is that, along with terrorist suspects, the project also provides a number of restrictions for ordinary citizens. If necessary, anti-terrorists will have possible entrances into premises and homes that they need. They can even damage and destroy some of the property in these buildings; they can seize any vehicle. The law provides for vicious practice from the recent past.. eavesdropping for operational purposes. There is no clue what exactly has been collected, how and for what purpose, whether it has been completely destroyed, and whether it will not be used to harm the person for whom the wiretapping has been exercised. The Minister of the Interior and the President of the SANS may prohibit a certain person from changing his place of residence, not using the Internet, not leaving the country, not visiting certain places, having only one phone and not contacting certain persons. This is undoubtedly a violation of some fundamental human rights. Graduating, I mean, the Law doesn't make it clear how the things that are written in it are going to be financially bound. We have repeatedly raised the question that the budget of the SANS, of the intelligence services and others should be greatly increased in view of the new requirements and threats to our country, so that they can be adequate to these challenges? to appoint the required number of people and to have sufficient resources to obtain, I would say, even to buy information. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria will refrain from supporting the first reading of the Law on Counterterrorism. We will make our proposals between first and second readings and if they are adopted, we will support the Law as a whole or separate paragraphs of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Dubov. A line to Mr. Dubov's statement? I can't see. For speech there is the popular representative Krasimir Karakachanov. To prepare General. Miho Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The patriotic front will support the submitted Anti-Terrorism Bill at first reading. I think our arguments don't need a long explanation. The problem of global terrorism is a serious problem for everyone. This problem began to be noticed after the Iraq War of 2003, then with the so-called Arab Springs and other processes that developed in the Middle East: the disintegration of national states in the Middle East and the replacement of secular regimes there with radical Islamism, hence terrorism. The processes in the Republic of Turkey also show that such a bill is absolutely necessary. Most countries that have been mentioned with similar bills have only begun to make such legislation after they have been affected by the manifestations of this international terrorism. Bulgaria has the advantage of not being seriously affected by such events, apart from the attack in Sarafovo, it has the advantage of seeing the practice of other European countries and not only European in this regard, and preparing something that is consistent with the conditions and needs of the Bulgarian citizen and the Bulgarian state. The fact is, however, that with just one law or amendment in any other law, things will not be resolved. It is a fact that it is necessary, apart from legislation that is commendable and in this regard, the Council of Ministers has made efforts to have a common, comprehensive countermeasure programme, firstly, of the manifestations and conditions that create such extremism and terrorism and specific legislative measures on terrorism. The truth is that if we do not start with changes in the education system itself, where we can raise Bulgarian citizens in a spirit of patriotism and responsibility to the state, and not just common tales and values, and extreme, unnecessary liberalism, if we do not start and take measures in other areas of public life, such as the practice of foreign countries or foreign factors to interfere in the domestic affairs of the country and to stimulate such manifestations of radical Islamism, we have not done anything with just one law. It was for this reason that the Patriotic Front more than a year ago proposed that the Bulgarian Army be engaged with these problems. You remember then the president and the military minister spoke against the engagement of the army in the protection of our state border. Time has set it! Then we talked and proposed a restructuring of the activities of the Bulgarian Army, proposed other draft laws for similar purposes to strengthen the possibilities of the individual institutions, on the one hand the Ministry of Interior, on the other hand the Bulgarian Army, for countering such events; we proposed the famous draft law on burkas, which was also like countering similar events that wash the minds of some of our fellow citizens and direct them towards radical manifestations; we proposed changes in the Penal Code regarding incrimination of the manifestations of Islamism; we also proposed changes in the Law on Religions. These things, together with the Law we are looking at today, can be much more effective in countering the institutions of Bulgaria with the manifestations of this phenomenon. This phenomenon is not something that will go away in itself. The truth is that in the last twenty years there has been a clash of two world views.. that world we know and like, and we have made our choice to it, secular societies, normal, sleepy and peaceful life, and one other common or other factors in the world that want to force some religious norms of life on which to subdue not only their own societies in which they live, but to subjugate the whole world. It's a fact, this clash between two civilizations. And if we continue, I speak as a European society and as citizens of Bulgaria, not to realize the problem of its globality, then we have not really understood anything. But I think this Parliament, with the legislation that is being done in it, is taking steps in the right direction. Many of our colleagues may criticize this bill at one point or another. I also said it in the Commission, I think I said it and publicly I would prefer there to be legislation that would tempt any employee of services or anything else to exceed their powers rather than no legislation that would lead to tragedy. I'd rather hear about lawsuits against employees who overstepped their powers under this Law than hear about funerals and flowering at this or that place where a terrorist act was committed. I think that's the basic philosophy. Between first and second readings can be made a variety of changes to perfect the Law. In its basis, it poses an extremely serious problem. The inclusion of the army in measures to combat terrorism is also necessary. Many countries have done it before us. Whether on a legal basis or because of the fact that there was something going on where they had to react and the police forces with their weapons did not have the necessary opportunities, but it is a fact. So I don't see anything weird about it. On the contrary, I see something commendable because we should not view the army and the police as two institutions that have nothing to do with it. On the contrary, both are the armed institutions of the state, which are called to protect the public order, security, life of Bulgarian citizens and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is nothing disturbing about the army helping or participating in countering terrorism. As I see that a serious consensus is emerging on this issue, I am not going to develop any further arguments. I repeat once again: the Patriotic Front will support this Bill at first reading. We will actively participate if there are reasonable proposals between first and second readings. The truth is that on some topics, in fact, the main topics of security of Bulgarian citizens, the territorial integrity of Bulgaria and our independence, we should not play opposition and government and in this regard some of our colleagues, although they are opposition, have taken a wise and, I would say, a national responsible decision. Everything else would be a cheap populism from which ordinary Bulgarian citizens always suffer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u86	Any lines to Mr. Karakachanov? Here you go, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, the Anti-Terrorism Act itself will hardly give us that tool with which we will have preventative opportunities or we can eradicate this problem. I believe that creating such an expectation from this bill will hardly solve our problems. I think the more important thing in this case is that the nation must unite around this topic and be firm with solving the processes that lead to such phenomena and subsequently to the loss of human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u88	Second line? A hole, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u89	You're right, Mr. Etem, there's no way with one law to expect problems that will be solved in the minds of hundreds of millions of people around the world. Because the civilized world here I am not only talking about Europe, but I am talking about many other countries that are both in the Middle East and in Africa and Asia, have long underestimated the problems of Islamism. They thought absolutely naive, let's just say that everyone has a right to their beliefs, and even they should be a little more extreme, as long as they don't interfere with others. Yeah, but it turns out they're starting to get in everybody's way. You are right, there is no way to solve the problem with a single law, but with the will of all factors in Bulgaria, one of the main factors, not to say in fact the main one is the Bulgarian Parliament. We are a parliamentary republic, this is where the laws are made. We need to push in this direction. This Law is one of them. There are other bills. I have listened to comments on our projects that we have tabled regarding radical Islam.....................is terminology right?! I agree. The important thing is not terminology, the important thing is to look in the right direction and the most important thing is that we all look in this direction and not divide, because this problem, if, don't let it happen to us, it does not distinguish whether you are opposition, whether you are ruling, whether you are Turkish, whether you are Bulgarian. The problem is comprehensive. I accept your remark. That is true, we should not expect miracles from just one law, but this Law is the step in the right direction, and that is why we support it, and I see that you support it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u90	This is Mr. Miho Mihov from the ABB group. To prepare Mr. Rosen Petrov BC-People's Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u91	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable representatives of the ministries of defence, home affairs and special services! The political party and the ABB Parliamentary Group supports the bill in the first vote and must share: after a certain evolution in terms of the details and weaknesses of the bill to the main and most importantly in this Bill. Why did we have this evolution and why would we support this bill? Because the bill closes the cycle of work papers on this dangerous subject. As is known to the MPs from last year, Bulgaria adopted a Strategy for Countering Radicalisation, which is a broader concept in many directions and terrorism. Secondly, the plan covering the implementation of this Strategy by 2020. Whether the Strategy and the Plan work is another matter, but I believe that at this stage without this Law the cycle was not closed and the allocation of forces and funds was not normal. Secondly, we support the Bill because we, the MPs and the government, assume a certain, great responsibility to the Bulgarian people to protect the nation and to protect the European civilization, which, notice, we are all already convinced that in the scale of time they have their systemic character of threat and total threat to the location of the facilities and living people from the children to the adults and believers in the respective temples. Thirdly, we support the Bill because it itself is prevention. The existence of this Law is prevention, and this is the main objective of the Law, which, as statesmen, we perform and, secondly, there is a deterrent function to radicalizing relations between nations and states. It is not without reason that I will share, because we do not have time to wait for directives from the European Union that is late, in my opinion, and because the European Union's internal security strategy or the so-called five steps for a safer Europe is not effective and do not work effectively. Finally, because we in all cases with this Law activate all available forces and funds in Bulgaria and already loud enough is spoken, as I will talk about activation in this direction and the Armed Forces of the Bulgarian Army. But it is a weakness in this direction, and we must take account of it and correct it, that only by force terrorism does not end and does not stop. We need effective diplomacy and international policy in this direction, which may not be the subject of this Law. What are our concerns and suggestions? Firstly, we have certain reservations to the definition of a legitimate assumption of threats, which could in any event lead to a beneficial interpretation of a particular situation by civil servants who decide to trigger one or the other plan. Secondly, it is disturbing that in the fight against terrorism the Bulgarian Army is in principle subject to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. This time she is assigned functions under the Ministry of Interior Act in seven points, which are not tradition and practice of the Bulgarian Army, that is to say, she is transferred both responsibilities and obligations between the two laws that the lawyers should clean up, all the more so that there is a discussion going on in the committees under the Law on Defence and Armed Forces and the package of force laws. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 of the bill is regulated the participation of the entire composition of the Armed Forces as a whole in this direction. In any case, this prickly involvement of the Armed Forces is not justified in my opinion and in any case the first statements that the Bulgarian Army is starting tomorrow to prepare for the fight against terrorism are not the best readiness for the Armed Forces. It is also better in the bills to note at which level to the extent of the bill the Armed Forces are involved, as the readiness and readiness systems are slightly different, as well as overcoming the acts of terrorism in the participation of the Bulgarian Army. In conclusion, we believe that any participation of the Armed Forces, except under this Law, should also be accompanied by a targeted act of the Minister of Defence in order to avoid crossing the thin border as required by Article. 52, para. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, namely the participation of the Armed Forces in tasks of an internal political nature. Overall, our parliamentary group welcomes this Law and we believe that its adoption is very timely. I've reported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u92	- What's the line? Mr. Merdjanov has a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mihov, you are a man of honor, a man of honour, and I have no doubt that what you have expressed in your speech is kindhearted. You stressed that the fight against terrorism is also in response to the preservation of European civilization. It was precisely this European civilization that had to be represented by relevant speakers regarding the conduct of a forward-looking policy to prevent terrorist acts and threats. Do you think that was the policy pursued by the European Union in the face of the previous foreign policy commissioner Catherine Ashton and the current Federica Mogherini? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Merdjanov, I thank you for your reply and I think that in my speech I stressed this satisfaction that we support this Law because it is this Law that is responsible for putting the problem before our citizens as defenders of European civilization, because I am personally convinced of the existence of civilisational clashes and they become systemic in time and place. I do not believe that the current leadership on internal policy and security in the European Union has worked actively enough, and therefore, once again, I stress to you that the five steps for the security of the European Union are not working and I therefore share that we do not have time to wait for their directives but, on the contrary, to provoke the European Union by our Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. The word for speech has the popular representative Rosen Petrov from the Bulgarian Democratic Center-People's Union. Here you are, dear Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - People's Union will support the Law on Counterterrorism at first reading. Why? Speaking of this Law, we must answer the question: what threat are we facing today, what is the purpose of terrorism, what is terrorism today? Terrorism is constantly changing, it mutates, it develops, and it's looking for gaps in our defense system. If, in the past, targets of terrorist attacks by organisations such as the IRA, the Red Army, the ETA, the Red Brigades, the Greek Ultraven extremists, were mainly representatives of power, police, politicians, military, then today the target of terrorism is maximum innocent victims, with the use of minimum funds. Social networks and the Internet allow for the rapid radicalisation of individuals who do not have a direct link to terrorist organizations in the minds of people everyone becomes a threat to everyone. We've been living in a state of constant fear lately. Moreover, for the first time in world history, terrorism has created its own quasi-State structure. I would say that today we are living in the era of total terrorism, and it also requires comprehensive answers. The first goal of total terrorism is to provoke universal fear. Unfortunately, it's already been executed. Its second goal.. through panic and chaos to break the functioning public mechanisms, to destroy state structures, to destroy the way of life of our societies. The anti-terrorist law provides an adequate opportunity to answer some of the questions that this total threat poses. The various security services, the Ministry of Interior, the army and the other state authorities receive a legal mechanism to enable them to jointly counter the use of the entire state resource, a general state response to a terrorist threat or, God forbid, when carrying out a terrorist act. The services receive tools to combat the new forms of radicalisation of terrorism mainly through the Internet. How to follow the process of radicalisation of a person if the time limit for the use of special intelligence means is not extended? How can we judge when he decides to commit such an ugly terrorist act, when exactly is the moment of his radicalisation, if we cannot exercise control over it? The question of the role of the army put forward by all of them. Should the army have such powers? Of course he must have such powers. What happened to the acts of terror in France when the public was overwhelmed by panic and terror? Who calmed the public? He was reassured by the presence of the armed forces on the streets of Paris and Nice. Do we have any parts in the Bulgarian Army capable of conducting anti-terrorist so-called tactical operations? We have parts like this. Why can't they be used? They have to be used. It is the army that is the force that, along with the Ministry of Interior, can calm the public after a terrorist strike. For me, adopting a law, especially at first reading, is always an expression of both political will and a way to respond to public attitudes to counter this total threat that we are forced to live in. We have to look the truth in the eye, and it is that the law is needed. To the people of the human rights organizations who complain a lot about the violation of rights, I would give an example of the recent past when many human rights defenders from us protected the face of Ahmed Chataev, the services detained him and the court released him and he bled the airport in Istanbul. In my opinion, this Law requires both government and opposition to express a single will to counter it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the popular representative Nastimir Ananiev of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will support the Law. In these dynamic rules with daily acts of terrorism he is needed. However, the question has always stood: where is the balance between security, freedom and citizens' rights? I think we should keep this balance at all costs. There are things that need to be corrected in the Bill itself. I will personally pay attention to four of these. The first thing is related to an increase in the period of use of the SRS. We increase the term from six months to two years, with an opportunity to increase to another year, to a maximum of three years. We do not just cover terrorist acts here, but all those who are in the Law, serious crimes and others, which, in fact, restricts in some way. I don't know why it's done for the others, not just for potential or these terrorist acts?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u100	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u101	Another problem, which I think may not have been thought about, is related to the ten phone cards of one user. I understand what the idea is. The question is, what do we do with legal entities that have 100, 200, 300 cards? User does not know what it is: a legal person, a natural person? A firm, if it only has ten cards and a hundred employees, does it have to open up ten companies, or does it have to be the individuals who get those cards?! For me here, we have an understatement, perhaps we need to make very clear the distinction of 10 cards to a natural person, and the legal person with any other requirements. Another thing that hasn't been considered for me, too, is the registration of foreigners within three days. If more than three days remain, they must personally register and submit various documents, which I do not know why it is done. We are currently discussing the Tourism Act, there are various possibilities for registration, which is made in hotels. To allow, as it is throughout Europe, through the hotel this registration to be granted to the Ministry of Interior and to be used in this way. There's no need to drive the groups that come here on vacation for a week or two, to go personally to register, file papers and so on. It should be considered in this regard, how to make it easier, because tourism will also suffer. In my opinion, there is no need, if there is a hotel system that can be used, which is tied to the Ministry of Interior, working in this direction in another bill, let us use this mechanism. The latter is related to the compensation of persons affected by measures to combat terrorism. The Law says this will be determined by a sub-legal level. I don't think that's necessary. We have a special law, which is the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. So let's add that if there are any such violations and affected rights, or someone has the right to compensation, use the current law. We don't need to give a sub-legal level to determine, since we have a law that defines these boundaries. So I personally and colleagues from the Reformation Block will submit proposals between readings, but the Law is needed will be supported. Fighting terrorism requires such a Law, but only it will, of course, not solve our problems, will need other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. A line of speech? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Ananiev, regarding the statement to limit the possession of phone numbers. It's about prepaid cards. It is not a question of limiting the right of a legal person to have telephone numbers to mobile operators -- 1000, 2000, 3000, 200, 300, 100. Please don't let this room down. A reference requested by the Commission and provided by mobile operators shows that certain persons have activated and unactivated prepaid cards of the order of 200, 300, 1500, 2000, 5000 one natural person. We're talking prepaid cards! Excuse me, no one can convince me that these cards are necessary for one person or one legal person. Legal persons, there's no problem. The idea of this legislation and what was previously introduced, a prepaid card you can have if you give your personal data. There is no obstacle to the legal person, if using and providing prepaid, we are talking, cards which, when the limit of 10 or 15 leva is exhausted, you activate, give the data to be registered. It is unacceptable that persons who deal with phone fraud and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior catch them with 500, 1000 prepaid cards, call it, throw it, or now sell prepaid cards, led to one person who is legally or physically, in certain places in Sofia, or non-Bulgarian citizens who have passed through Bulgaria, foreigners to use such cards abroad. That's what this is about. As for your other remark on limitation of rights. Excuse me, nowhere in this amendment with an increase in the duration of use of the SRS is said to be about all serious intentional crimes. Initially, the Special Intelligence Act explicitly states that, yes, such can only be used for serious criminal offences and they are also listed by sections and texts of the Penal Code. In this case, it is only crimes that concern national security and terrorist acts, not all terrorist acts. The other time limits remain the same. Two plus two, plus two months. There's no change in order. Yes, it is the judge who gives the permission, the judge who can determine the deadline, the control remains the same. Don't say things you don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Lazarov, we have no distinction on the phone cards. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] We don't get away with it. We record a user, let's record a natural person, and the problem is solved. Because if a firm wants to buy a hundred prepaid cards related to its activities, how would it do that? I'm interested in you telling me how he's gonna do it. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] What you said didn't actually cover the serious crimes of intent was written down very explicitly. Currently, the Law says: six months in respect of activities related to the protection of national security in cases of the prevention of serious intentional crimes. So, yeah, it covers them. And this extension to the SRS, which is two years old, with the possibility of extending to three, covers them and is explicitly written in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. The word for speech has the popular representative Atanas Merdjanov from BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security and the State Agency of Intelligence, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is beyond any doubt that terrorism is one of the great challenges of our time. It calls into question the overall structure of free society, blurring the boundaries between acceptable and unacceptable, questioning the ability of democratic states to protect their citizens. How can you resist an insane behavior like killing anything suspicious and completely innocent people? Law and law are powerless through madness and radicalism. What penalty do you have to predict for someone who's already decided to blow himself up and die, killing innocent people? At the same time, if we lightly give up the standards of freedom and human rights achieved through centuries of development, then terrorists achieve their goal. In the face of the free world against terrorism, we cannot allow the free world to disappear. And this is not about a theoretical debate or a dilemma of freedom or security. There's no debate like that and there can't be. Clearly, a man who worries about his life cannot be called free. But let us not forget that security without freedom is a characteristic of either prison or totalitarianism. It is precisely because the balance between the two values is impossible, that legislation always seems inadequate in the eyes of people. We have the Act on the Ministry of Interior, the Penal Code, the Law on Protection against Disasters and Accidents, the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing, the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces, the Law on the Functioning of the National Security System, the three Constitutional Laws of Special Services, the DAR, the Military Intelligence and the National Security Service, the Special Intelligence Act and, of course, a number of disaster protection plans, an integral part of which is also the plan to counter terrorism. However, society feels that this is not enough. And we in BSP understand and take into account this feeling. We will not oppose the new legislation, but we will not support it either, because we are sure that it does not significantly and sharply improve the situation. Its effect on the general state, on the security system is questionable, while the consequences for citizens are undisputed. By adopting this Law, guarantees for some of our most open freedoms will be largely removed. Today we will abstain from voting, but between first and second reading we will make concrete proposals for improvements in this particular direction. The possibility of abusing people's privacy by monitoring, eavesdropping and holding should be limited to a minimum. This is not some form of paranoia or opposition mistrust. Unfortunately, the memory of the wiretapping scandals is still very fresh, and the Strasbourg verdicts are raining one after the other against our country. In particular, we insist that, following today's vote, security experts, together with prepared human rights lawyers, should think about the following few moments. In the legal definition of countering terrorism in art. 1, para. 2, the first stated objective is to protect individuals, society and the state against terrorism. But this is the task of the Penal Code described as early as noon. 1, para. 1 of the Penal Code itself. You understand that this Law should not have the ambition to replace the Penal Code with regard to the repressive policy of the state against terrorists and terrorist suspects. This Law should only make sense if it is aimed at preventing and preventing acts of terrorism. For, God forbid, an act of consummation, the state pursues and punishes, but the tragedy is already there. Exactly because the most important thing here is prevention, special treatment should be applied to the provisions of art. Art. 16 to art. 24. There is much talk about the justified assumption, but no less stretching is the concept of terrorist activity. Only terrorist acts and terrorism have been defined, which is not the subject of a legal definition. Of course, special services need a certain margin of discretion to be able to respond to the various varieties of possible threat, but given the scope of restrictions on rights that may follow, it is necessary to specify the concept. Allow me here to open a clamp, because it is important not only to adopt laws, but to read and apply them. Just a year ago, we had definitions of threat, risk or crisis in our legislation in the context of National Security. This happened with the so-called National Security Act, and today, when we think about terrorism, this law seems not to exist. Once again, we are talking about coordination between the services, about interaction and other issues that were supposed to have been resolved by that law. Finally, I will draw attention to the changes that are quietly being passed in other laws. In the transitional and final provisions consciously or unconsciously there are important and particularly dangerous changes. By § 4 of the SANS Act, old powers are returned, which completely dispel the boundaries of the activities of the SANS and the Ministry of Interior, especially as envisaged by the governing extension of the powers of the General Directorate of Organized Crime. With § 9 amending the Special Intelligence Act, the authors of the Bill have obviously gone too far. First, they are expanding the broad hypothesis in the existing art. 4 of the Special Intelligence Means Act as to when such funds are applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u108	Continue the time of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u109	Thank you. However, it is also envisaged that, at the discretion of the authorities, evidence should not be drawn up at all when using the SRS to prevent serious criminal offences under Chapter 1 of the Criminal Code. That is, no documentary environment for what the means and means are used, what they have collected as information with them and who this information has served. These nonsense will not help us to be more effective in combating terrorism. What will help us much more than this Law is to devote the funds needed for intelligence and counterintelligence, to strengthen the relevant services and to let them work in peace. As for us politicians, we can help them too. We will do so by stopping seeking media fame with this topic or imitating an activity such as, by the way, is the main purpose of this Law. The citizens of Bulgaria need peace, the responsible services need confidence and that is why we at BSP today will silence most of our criticisms. That's why we gave up our otherwise extremely motivated vote of no confidence in the government. The situation requires responsibility and we demonstrate it. However, it is high time for you of the majority to stop wasting time and public energy with laws such as this or the Anticorruption and get real work for real real and visible, as you express yourself, results. As for Tsvetlin Yovchev, Mr. Manushev, we can talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u110	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. For a statement there is the popular representative from the Reformation Block Atanas Atanasov. Here you go, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u112	You have 7,11 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'll surprise you with my position. I will not support this Bill, but I will try to draw your attention to several arguments which, from so many speeches previously, I have not heard anything about them, I believe are extremely important. First of all, this bill introduces a very powerful mandate for the Minister of the Interior to introduce a single state of emergency in the country in the form of the so-called anti-terrorism operation. No one has paid attention to that circumstance. The Institute of Emergency is set up in the Constitution. It's not an accident. The National Assembly and the President have powers regarding the introduction of a state of emergency. And here, in the form of an anti-terrorist operation, this power is given sole to the Minister of Interior, he is re-subordinated by the armed forces and other special services. They receive all police powers, they could only hold persons on the basis that they do not have an identity document and no one pays attention to that circumstance. This is an extremely dangerous procedure and it is at the heart of the entire bill. If only that power were given to the Council of Ministers! It's the Home Secretary's one-on-one! That is the main thing I want to address to you. Of course, I will also point out some other dangerous texts to you, but, unfortunately, this moment with the anti-terrorist operation cannot be corrected in this bill between first and second reading, because if the anti-terrorist operation is removed from this bill, there is nothing left in it. Secondly, the draft is composed of 30 pages, 10 pages of which are transitional and final provisions, i.e. changes to other regulations. Only two of them I'll pay attention to. First of all, the recovery, the return of police powers to the SANS. Last year, the majority of us had a consensus on this. This is an information and analysis service that has quite other tasks, which are many, and I don't see how it will handle this task of holding people back? That means training people now and so on. What should the DANS receive this power for when the head of the Anti-terrorist Headquarters is the Interior Minister, to whom all police structures are subordinate? Apart from that, during the anti-terrorist operation in question, the patrols will be mixed. What's with the power? The second, which is important from the Transitional and Final Regulations. I have no concern that some of the deadlines for the implementation of special intelligence means will be extended, because I am convinced that counterintelligence and intelligence services need longer deadlines for this particular activity. However, there is another problem. Why a specific order is introduced to give permission and to implement these special intelligence tools in relation to these texts, they are four or five, but give great opportunities for stretching Next, why should permission be granted only by the President of the Specialized Court? Why? I'll give you an example. If a signal is received in Silistra, and you must act immediately, you realize that until the approval of the President of the specialized court in Sofia will take place at least two days and the bird can take off? This is absolutely shortsighted! And the other one. See who are the authorities indicated that they are entitled to request the implementation of the SRS in these cases. First of all is the Attorney General. I feel like the Attorney General is doing nothing else. Last year, when the PPC changed again, only the chief prosecutor wanted the SRS for corruption in the judiciary, now the chief prosecutor wants the SRS. Look, it's the operation of the operation services. It's the fight against terrorism. This incredible appetite from the prosecution to seize powers in the area of implementation of the SRS is difficult to explain! So these are the texts that are in the Transitional and Final Regulations. There are many other circumstances that indicate duplication of functions. Here, one of the pre-talkers pointed to this thing. Last year, we adopted a Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. There we regulated what the crisis meant. There was established a National Situation Centre, which should manage crises. Excuse me, this terrorist act is a specific crisis. I ask, who will make the decisions? This headquarters, which we create here, with this Law, or the already established National Situation Centre, which, by the way, is directly subordinate to the Prime Minister? This Law, excuse me, is a lot of noise for nothing, but at the same time there are very dangerous texts and I am returning you to what I have started with - it is unacceptable to give extremely important powers to a single authority, such as the Minister of Interior, whatever his name is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u114	Thank you, General. Atanasov. It's a line to General Spock's statement. Atanasov? I can't see. The People's Representative Stanislav Anastasov has the floor for speech. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear importers, I am extremely well-intentioned and I assure you that if you feel any hint of criticism, please know that it is constructive and aims to support our joint efforts to counter terrorism. In the name of consensus, I will even suppress concerns about limiting some rights, which, as a liberal, believe me, is not easy for me at all. I have two main concerns and they are related to the effectiveness of the Law. The first is that preventive activity, in the way it is recorded in the Law, essentially covers the second stage of preparation of a terrorist act. The primary stages, namely choosing the goal and planning, which are the most difficult to establish because they require additional monitoring, alas, do not even see where they are or if they were, how would they be realized? If you're wondering where my conclusions come from, they're definitely not original, they're based on a visit from Stratfor, a host of the Washington thinktank, who, I'm sure, everyone at the Ministry of Interior knows. There are quite intelligent and experienced people working in security. My second concern relates to the role of society in the process of countering terrorism. Here I come to the most fundamental question.... what is the philosophical concept of the Law? Once again, the DPS will support it, because this is much better than nothing. But on what comprehensive strategy do you base this bill? Will we have a prevention strategy similar to the United Kingdom, undoubtedly effective, judging by the results, a strategy that engages the entire society, or will we have a command-administrative approach that relies only on state institutions in the same way as those countries that suffered the most by terrorist acts just recently? I don't want to mention the countries out of respect for the victims' memory, but also for their national pride. Terrorism today is definitely an unconventional threat, and attempts to bring it into any frame are impossible, doomed to failure, and what concerns me is that we are trying to combat this threat with conventional means. I will not even dwell on some of the clichés used in the heard arguments that we repeat just because they are in turnover. I'm putting a theme to think about. I also hope to meet understanding in supplementing the Law, namely the spirit of art. 1 of the Law to develop in the Law itself and to see the society and its role written inside. The beginning of the Law, colleagues, delighted me very much when I read that countering terrorism is a comprehensive nationwide activity, but I read, read and saw neither civil society nor open formats, nor communities participating in the prevention in that primary stage of monitoring and recognition of the threat, for which we do not fool ourselves. Citizens are an indispensable resource. I am stopping here because my colleagues will point out a lot of details that need to be addressed between first and second votes, but I am making an appeal to the importers for the greater good, so that we never have to use the provisions of this Law, reconsider the approach a little and expand it, involve citizens, involve communities. This will not only counteract terrorism better, but will also increase the connection with citizens and their confidence in law enforcement, which, I believe, is a fundamental prerequisite for the policy of the Ministry of Interior to be effective. Thank you for your attention, and I hope for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. A line? I won't. There is a word for speech, Antony Trenchev. Mr. Trenchev, I'm sorry, but the extended time is one minute, so whatever you can say in one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Basically, most of the things I wanted to say, that's what they said. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that terrorism is the new normal and we will have to get used to it, and not because something so much depends on us, but just these are the new world realities. It is also very important to give ourselves clear awareness that terrorism is not just our conventional perception of this terrorism? There are also many forms of terrorism that we have yet to address. These are cyberattacks that are no less serious than everyone else, so this law is not perfect, of course, which law is, and we need a lot of things to be cleared between readings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But I think it's better to take this first step and support it. I believe that most of our colleagues will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Replies to Mr. Trenchev's statement? I won't. There is a floor for speech by the people representative Svetoslav Belemezov the parliamentary group of ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Guests! In view of the current Anti-Terrorism Act, we should take into account the extent to which Bulgaria is in the context of international terrorism. Two important things: the terrorist act at the Burgas airport of 18 July 2012 in an indisputable way put Bulgaria on the international stage of the countries threatened by terrorist acts. The country's participation in the world anti-terrorist coalition also leads to additional risks and threats to the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as to international contingents that we maintain at crisis points around the world. Luckily for us, we all know very well that there is no direct and immediate threat of carrying out a terrorist act for our country, but that does not in any way mean that we are completely protected from such asymmetric actions. Speaking of countering terror, we should bear in mind that there are data available on the activation of terrorist groups close to our borders, even more in Europe and Turkey, successful terrorist acts have been committed. On the other hand, there is a growing migration stream that helps invade terrorists. Last but not least, the passage through Bulgarian territory or near our borders of routes for foreign fighters is also observed. Since terrorism is a complex topic, we should discuss it in the context of our national security. Why would I say that? Because the main threats to national security arise from the conflict in the Middle East, Syria, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, and the poor prospects for the lasting resolution of these conflicts lead to further threats to our country, yet Europe continues to have no single position on this issue. A special threat lies our southern border "southeast" and south-west with Turkey and Greece, where currently around 2 million 700 thousand migrants are located in Turkey; far less are in Greece, about 60 thousand, but the situation there is no less dangerous, as the economic, political and financial crisis there could lead to increased threats. It should also be noted that this is an internal border for the European Union and is, by presumption, less guarded. What did our country do in terms of preventing and countering terror? The Act of the Council of Ministers of 30 December 2015 adopted a National Strategy for Countering Radicalisation and Terrorism for the period 2015 - 2020. Of course, the National Plan for Countering Terrorism, which is developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in direct coordination with the competent departments and state agencies, also comes from it. A change was also made to the Law on the State Agency "National Security" through which a National Unit was established for obtaining and processing of reservation data for passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, transmitted by air to the PNR system "Passinger name records." The National Counter-terrorism Center was established in the DANS, where representatives of the State Agency..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A number of changes were made to Articles 280 and 281 of the Penal Code, which increased sanctions for persons involved in human trafficking. Last but not least, changes in art. 56 and 57 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act. I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u120	The group's time has been extended. Please note that you have exactly 3 minutes left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Part of the positive side of the bill is that interaction with local authorities and municipalities is ensured. We believe that there are the weakest points in countering terrorism. If around large cities such as Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas and Varna have certain mechanisms and competences to deal with such a type of terrorist threat, then in small towns I think the problems are much more serious. The operational and specialised procedures shall be improved. A solid coordination and interaction between the designated departments shall be carried out. There are, unfortunately, a number of negative aspects on which we should focus. One of them is that the bill gives the impression that it is aimed at the terrorist act itself, and the preventive activity itself is rather administrative. On the basis of the information space, we do not offer much, and we all know that many of the perpetrators of terrorist acts have ultimately been recruited through social networks and the Internet. In the context of preventive measures, many of the texts need concrete and additional precision texts such as the registration of foreigners within certain deadlines, the training of people implementing law enforcement measures, the carrying out of local analyses and so on. In conclusion, I will allow myself to send a message by quoting from my favorite book of Sun Tzu, where he says: "Let us rely not on the possibility that the enemy may not appear, but on our own willingness to welcome him; not on the likelihood that he will not attack us, but on the fact that we have made our positions irresistible. " In this regard, the ABB Parliamentary Group will support this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u122	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Belemezov, I have listened to you with interest. You are certainly prepared, you have probably read a lot of literature. In your speech, however, there was something very important that was missing, and this is the topic "Budget". Unfortunately, none of the unspeakable. Atanasov, including the representatives of BSP left Bulgaria did not say that the product security after all has a price. It would be very interesting for me to hear the representatives of the services, the Deputy Ministers of the Ministry of Interior and Defence: colleagues, is the budget sufficient for you? In fact, only twenty days ago we adopted a document by which we gave the right and opportunity to the Ministry of Defence to modernise the Naval and Air Force, and in fact the most important unit that should be involved in this Law, the ground troops practically remain without new funding and thus could participate, I would say, formally in the battle against terrorism. Perhaps now is the time to state that in just a month's time we will start a discussion on the topic of "Budget" and if we leave our services unfunded "Department of Defense," Ministry of Interior or funded only within wages, then all our pushes, theoretical plays, ideas for changes in legislation are simply in vain! Perhaps now is the time to state: in order for this Law to function, a budget is also needed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Zafirov. For information of the hall: follow Mustafa Ahmed, DPS, Philip Popov, BSP LB and Velizar Enchev independent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u125	Mr. Belemezov, because you quoted Sun Tzu, I'd like to quote Benjamin Franklin. [[Radio, laughter, and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u126	However, with a request to colleagues: let us not quote literature, we are talking about serious things!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u127	The one who is willing to sacrifice his fundamental freedom for the sake of buying a little transitional security deserves neither freedom nor security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Third line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. Mr. Belemezov, I'm just going to ask you: no quotes from books!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zafirov, I will continue the way you graduated. In ancient times, a famous Greek philosopher and thinker Aristotle said that the man is a zoopolitan and political being, and as such he has his rights, but also his duties. In this regard, I think that we, as carriers of democratic processes in Bulgaria, should be able to manage very well the balance between the rights and obligations of the people. As for Mr. Haytov's line, I want to tell you, Mr. Haytov, that you are putting a very serious problem. It is widely known that the adoption of this Bill will in no way enable and toolkit we to raise the funds for the sector "Secure" next year. But it does not prevent us from being extremely active in this direction and bringing this topic up all the time. You know very well the consistent position of the ABB and our claims that new funds are needed for the sector "Secretary" and in the course of examining the State Budget Act last year we made a number of proposals in this direction as regards the budget of the State Agency "National Security" and the budget of the State Agency "Research". But you're actually putting another very important question on the table. Is the terrorist legislation responding to how prepared our anti-terrorist groups are going to be? I'm talking about the Specialized Counterterrorist Squad. From Minister Bachvarova's reply to me, we understand that there is, in fact, an incomplete unit there, and the team is working half of its intended composition. Others, of course, are also the problems related to modernisation and technical equipment, but I believe that in this position we could all the parliamentary groups in the forthcoming discussion of next year's budget to be much more active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u130	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. The word for speech has the people's representative Mustafa Ahmed. Here you go, Mr. Ahmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not quote anyone, I will just say that we at the DPS are about the art of peace and democracy and we believe that this is the right way to prevent terrorism. However, in order to concentrate on the Bill, I would like to say that we DPS view terrorism as the plague of the 21st century. And the necessary measures must be taken to heal both the public and the sick brains that have no color, ethnicity, religion and so on. Dear colleagues, he may have been late in time, but the bill is undeniable, screaming and necessary based on the events and circumstances surrounding us in recent years. The Bill itself has its weaknesses in individual points and articles to which I will try to sharpen your attention. Coliseum, for example, with the responsibility of the citizens of officials in art. 38. Something does not coincide with the citizens have a greater commitment and are punished more rigorously than officials who, under Law, must carry out their duties. Also, dear colleagues, in § 9 of the Special Intelligence Act we also have concerns about art. 15, p. ............................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The extension of two to three years of eavesdropping into the situation that we are currently in, I think it is not justified. Perhaps this between first and second reading, along with colleagues, will clear it in conversation. We fully support art. 38 years for the prepaid SIM cards, as we think this will also affect the phone scams with which our older citizens are very seriously attacked. We want between first and second readings to propose the means of monitoring both on-site and limiting the movement of citizens themselves through electronic bracelets, or so-called GPS, to be recorded specifically so that the services, the state can know if there is a possible threat to anyone, or if there is any threat to the state or to somewhere, that it can be controlled. I would like to point out that the educational system in terms of prevention must take this bill very seriously, to be able in schools to prepare our children in every situation for a terrorist threat and not to miss any of the generation, as Europeans have done at the moment and are wondering how to get out of this situation. Thank you. We will support the Bill at first reading. We have our reservations and we will take these proposals very seriously between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ahmed. - What's the line? I won't. To make a statement, there is the national representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Several main lines may be indicated and the answer to the first one follows the answers of others. Is such a law necessary in the first place? What if I were to look like this? The current legal framework of this particular activity, which he claims to regulate, exists and it includes both legal acts such as the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, the Criminal Code, the Law on Services, the Law on SRS, and the preparation of different levels of disaster protection plans, an integral part of which is the plan to counter terrorism. This refers to about 60 "70% of the bill's content. In this sense quite loud and pretentious is the title of the Law because of art. 1 Turns out that it regulates countering a crime such as terrorism, as explained in the Additional Provisions of the Bill itself. You can still see something's wrong here. How can a law be countered against a crime, because countering it cannot be understood as prevention alone? Countering crimes is the task of the overall criminal and not only criminal policy of the state. Moreover, the Law is legally inexpressible, most likely because of the great haste in his writing. For example, by the legal definition of countering terrorism in art. 1, para. 2, the first stated objective is to protect individuals, society and the state against terrorism, which is in fact the task of the Criminal Code to protect the person from criminal abuse............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1, para. 1 of the Penal Code. The designated objective in para. 1, t. 3 The development of indicators is not mentioned at all as the subject of regulation in the bill. Article 3 and Article 3. 4 basically don't say anything. Article 5 "For the Security Council, it can safely find a place in the so-called................................................................................................. Article 6 was taken as a provision of a decree of the Council of Ministers establishing the national counterterrorism centre in question. There are only about 30 of them, 40% of them. And they're the disturbing ones. They can be grouped into several categories............................................................................................................... 16 to 24 for natural and legal persons; the measures applicable during an anti-terrorist operation and emergency situation; and the changes to other laws provided for in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft, which in practice confer additional powers on the services in relation to their activities in the protection of terrorism. With regard to preventive measures, the worrying notion of terrorist activity used in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. To justify taking such a measure, the person must be involved in terrorist activity. Yeah, but what do we know about that? It is not terrorism, it is not a terrorist act, it is in any case more widespread and vaguely giving a field of interpretation, and this is unacceptable when it comes to limiting citizens' constitutional rights. Another worrying thing is about the measures and their character, because in fact the measures in art. 17, p. 1, 3, 4 and 8 by content constitute impact measures within the meaning of the Criminal Code. Not to mention the ban on leaving the country and withdrawing documents. There's some kind of quasi-judicial process going on here? Yes, it is true that the measure is imposed by the court, subject to appeal, which, however, does not stop it from being implemented. The formal trial is a guarantee, but only when there are clear legal rules on the power of all the parties in it, and there is no such clarity here. I will conclude my speech with a question: will we fight terrorism through this Law? I don't think so. Can he be used in a coup? Yeah. Is there any guarantee that it will not be used in a coup d'état to the detriment of citizens' constitutional rights? No, there is no such guarantee and mechanism provided for in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u134	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For the procedure asked the word Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u135	Dear Mr President, I ask you to put to the vote an extension of the time in today's plenary session until this bill is adopted. It may have to be longer by 5 minutes, but there are several speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u136	A reverse opinion? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting for an extension of the time until this point is completed. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The word has the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u137	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I will make specific remarks and proposals which I will make in writing between first and second readings. In the first part of my speech, I join in part with General Miho Mihov's position on the status of the Bulgarian Army in the Law. I believe that the army, which in the Bill is called the Armed Forces, has no place in this Law, and I will specifically suggest that it be pointed out: the role of the army. Those of you who are not very deep in the subject must know that the Department of Gendarmerie or the Bulgarian Gendarmerie is the other name of the Inner Forces. Since we have internal troops, I believe that in case of terrorist danger, do not give yourself a God, or implemented terrorist act on the territory of Bulgaria, this function in the streets and squares can be performed not by the Bulgarian army, not by soldiers and officers, but by the internal forces named "Gendarmeria" or, more precisely, the Directorate of Gendarmerie, which is within the Ministry of Interior. Here I do not mention the Special Forces in Plovdiv, as it is self-evident that they will participate in this work. I absolutely believe that the army should not go out on the street in any way. The army cannot be used for arrest, detention, handcuffing, entering homes and questioning until the arrival of the respective police institutions. In addition, such a function, which is incorporated by law of the Bulgarian Army, will have a demoralizing function on the army itself. Put yourself in the position of the officers and the military, who will have to perform military, police functions, and they will have to be trained for this purpose. If we insist so much on using the army in critical situations, let's accept the American model, it seems to me that there was such a proposal in the National Assembly, to move towards the creation of a national guard. But that's another subject, and it's another law. So I remain in my position.. instead of the Armed Forces, about the Bulgarian Army, to talk about the Directorate of Gendarmerie, which can and must perform these functions. When we talk about preventive measures, in art. 20 has a very interesting text that I think should be refined. I quote the text: To create and use non-profit legal entities or commercial companies to cover the activities of undercover employees. In particular, it is about the introduction of undercover agents into non-profit legal entities or in commercial companies. My comment, remark and suggestion are as follows. We all know that non-profit legal entities are associations and foundations in Bulgaria, and there are hundreds of them. I believe that the introduction into existing and active foundations or non-profit associations will largely distort their activities, will also have a demoralising effect on their managers, who should know by law about the person involved. In addition, it is a public secret that these NGOs do not benefit from not all of them, of course, not to sum up, with a particularly high public prestige because of external funding, which is often quite brutal and irritating. I therefore propose, when it comes to implementing non-profit legal entities, to create new non-profit legal entities to be used for undercover agents. When talking about commercial companies and the wording is the creation and use of commercial companies for undercover agents, here the logic is the opposite. Commercial companies are associations of two or more persons for business activity and the establishment of a new trading company, which must have a turnover which can be verified at any time by the relevant institutions in Bulgaria. Such turnover will hardly exist or if there is, it should be specified in the Law that the relevant office of the SANS will provide such financial resources. I think it is best that, when it comes to commercial companies, the deployment of agents takes place in already existing companies that have the relevant commercial turnover and can at any time be checked by the interested parties, not to say "terrorist organisations." That way, there will be no threat to the security of undercover agents. As for the functions of the SANS, there was a very interesting one here, I would say, a useful statement by General Atanasov, who, as former head of the SANS, then the National Security Service, objected to the return of police powers to the SANS. Okay, you want to give DANS police authority back, but in that case, maybe we should think about the possibility that DANS gets the functions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States of America. Neither have I the time nor have the opportunity to enter the procedure to explain what the FBI is in Bulgaria and what functions the State Agency has. The idea is not bad, but let us not forget that just two years ago we took away these police functions of the State Agency. It is a fact. I understand this proposal to receive such police functions, but then we need to talk about a Bulgarian Federal Bureau of Investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Are there lines? I won't. Next is the speech of the MP Yanko Yankov. Then Mr. Tsvetanov, and we're done for now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, it has become clear that our parliamentary group will support this bill. We believe that it is necessary, extremely necessary and extremely timely. My fellow Members, there is a thesis that we have special laws that can solve our problems in the fight against terrorism and we do not need to accept this. This is true, however, honourable Members, this Law allows for extremely effective and quality coordination and subordination that so far does not exist. This Law, honourable Members, gives opportunities that can really lead to an effective fight against terrorism! I believe that in particular the opportunities given to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the SANS, as well as to the Military Police, and to the other services, all this benefits the fight against terrorism. It's extremely important. Dear colleagues, we are adopting laws that are for quality use. There is no law that we have passed that cannot be used for abuse. This is indeed true and depends on the institutions that apply it. My fellow Members, as we are at first reading and discussing the philosophy of the Bill, I would like to draw your attention to two things that we are listening to in the media and which, unfortunately, are absolutely false and often sound from the platform of parliament. One is that the cause of terrorism in all European countries, and possibly in Bulgaria, is mainly radical Islam in its quality. Dear colleagues, Islam has nothing to do with terrorism. This must be made clear to everyone. I am a MP for whom many Muslims from our constituency vote, and I want to protect their honor and dignity. Dear colleagues, I have been to many religious events and I must tell you that the main thing that I have heard there in this direction is that it is written in the sacred books: "No matter how much injustice they cause you, never cause injustice! No matter how much suffering you suffer, never cause suffering! This is the basic formula of Islam. However, the question arises, why did this really come into being as a thinking of society? Dear colleagues, if one person blows up somewhere and causes the death of other people, what will reflect in public opinion is that it is a criminal, a criminal criminal criminal, a person who has criminal behavior and the effect will be insignificant. But if this man, fellow Members, before it explodes, says: "Allah Akbar, the effect becomes great. For example, if this happens, keep God in Bulgaria? Petrich, in Silistra the effect will be huge. Or anywhere. These young people who blew themselves up in Germany, France, they were never in a mosque. They never believed in Islam, dear colleagues. This is extremely important to know! The other thing I want to say is that refugees have nothing to do with what's happening as terrorism. The flows of refugees, honourable colleagues, are used by the special services to be able to insert elements that... They themselves do not implement terrorist acts, but prepare terrorists in the respective countries. I wish our special services to reach out to the guarantors of everything that's going on. And, God forbid in Bulgaria we don't have this kind of action, but we have a potential danger in the slums where statehood doesn't really exist, and everything that happens there has nothing to do with the state. My fellow Members, we must therefore act very carefully and the requirements for our services must be extremely high. To properly differentiate things and to make it clear that radical Islam is not a religion, honourable Members, it is a policy, it is a policy of interests that have nothing to do with democracy and modern human values. I hope that this bill, which we will adopt, and the proposals that will be made, precisely to contribute in this direction, will lead, as one of my fellow Members has said here, to unite the nation to fight terrorism and not to its separation, because this alone and only will serve terrorism, and will not lead to its prevention and eradication in its foundations. I don't want to talk here about education, about everything that's related to integration and so on. Again, every parallel to religion is wrong. Here we are talking about marginal elements that do not love the country in which they live, and very easily succumb to these suggestions, and these words are put into their mouths to generate an additional multiplier effect of terrorism, hate, especially in a country like ours, where we have historically embedded features and things that can leave us without a future. I hope that all that we will do will be in favour of national security by unifying the nation and maximum effect by making all Bulgarian citizens empathetic to the fight against terrorism, especially municipalities, other institutions, regional governments and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u140	Thank you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u141	I apologize for a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u142	It's within what's accepted, a few seconds. Any lines to Mr. Iankov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Lazarov. [[Noise, lines and shouts!]] Colleagues, there is an opportunity for more MPs to sign up. There's a record. The debate is extremely intense. So far, the 22nd is Mr. Lazarov, and there's more after him. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. To prepare Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! The debate has been held since it was announced that the Bill will be prepared and since it was uploaded for public discussion on the e-page of the Council of Ministers. He was also led by the Commission. I will try not to repeat the arguments put forward in the committee reports, why does such a bill need? Yeah, he needs a bill like that. Some criticisms and remarks have been heard here. Some of them are justified, others are the product of ignorance of the bill. It was said that there was no definition of this in the bill: "What is terrorism or a terrorist act?" Apparently, someone isn't very familiar or hasn't read the entire bill. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions is mentioned. There are definitions of terrorism, terrorist act, anti-terrorist operation, border of the operation area. I'm not gonna read them to you, there are definitions. Yes, it is a counter-terrorism bill that regulates relations between different departments, and at the same time I would like to stress a large number of..................................................................................... The question was also raised that, you see, the bill almost gave the Minister of Interior the power to declare a state of emergency in Bulgaria! Well, of course, that's not true. It's about setting the time limit and ending the anti-terrorist operation. Well, there is no other body to meet, almost the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers, to convene when there is a need to conduct such an operation to prevent an anti-terrorist act or, God forbid, in carrying out such an act. On the other hand, it has been said that quickly, very quickly and adequately there should be an opportunity for authorities to react. Regarding concerns about violation of citizens' rights. On the one hand, it is said that the period for the application of special intelligence means is extended, but, note, only for the protection of national security and not in all cases, but when it comes to the prevention of serious national security crimes, and these are terrorist acts. In my opinion, asking these questions should be asked with another question, which is usually asked separately by colleagues and the public: "Is there sleeping anti-terrorist cells, and are there individual fighters in Bulgaria, how do the services work?" When it is said that the excessive limitation of powers led to the lack of freedom, I think that it is proportionately written here in the Bill to limit certain powers, and not more so, and not in any different extent than that adopted in other European countries, or currently in force regulations and directives, but is generally in line with what the draft directive of December last year provided for to take measures to counter terrorism. There are even more detailed restrictions on such powers and the right of movement, including in France, adopted in the Bill a restriction on the right to move residents of other Member States of the European Union or of the Schengen area. So there is nothing more in limiting the powers of this Bill. The question was also raised that there was no regulated counter-terrorism by sea. Dear colleagues, May 2009 was adopted the Law on Defence and Armed Forces. There are texts in which it is written on the order of the Minister of Defence that an anti-terrorist operation may be carried out in relation to an aircraft which cannot be identified until a breach of the maritime space and, notice, and something else is being carried out an anti-terrorist operation. One t. This is obviously a land-based anti-terrorist organization. But no one since then has raised the question that rights are being violated, because there is only written, and it is not said who orders, what rights, what time, what time I am talking about the Defense Bill and the Armed Forces since May 2009. In this Bill clearly, the rights and obligations are described. In this Bill it is written that all these procedures and actions are subject to parliamentary control by a parliamentary committee, unlike what was adopted in 2009, that is, the end of the government of Mr. Stanishev, it is simply written that the Minister of Defence is conducting an anti-terrorism operation. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Yes, Mr. Bozhinoff, that's right. Now all of this is regulated. And one more thing I would like to remind you about for the first time in this bill is also providing compensation for the damage to the citizens who have suffered from an anti-terrorist operation. As far as the demands are concerned, you see, very broad rights have been given because they were entitled to conduct such an operation or to prevent them from entering homes, to break down barriers. Well, they're exactly the same powers under the Law of Disasters, which no one contests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u144	Any lines to Mr. Lazarov? I won't. The word is Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u145	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests who are present here today from the services and from the Ministry of Interior! The need for this Bill concerns the changing security environment both in the region we are in and in the Middle East. You see what has happened in the last few months in Europe. Many are those who are for, many are those who are against. I believe that we should have absolutely no concerns about the adoption of such a bill, because our commitment is to effectively combat potential threats to the security of the country and, of course, to limit the possibility of preparing and carrying out a terrorist act. Almost all over Europe there is such legislation already being drawn up. Let us also consider the Bill, which was adopted only days ago in Israel. Let us also remind ourselves that when we talked years ago about the introduction of PNR-reservation data by the European Commission and the United States, you know how many of the European countries were opposed, because human rights could be violated, or about the information that will be available, there must be full guarantees that it will be used only and solely for the purpose of countering terrorism and organised crime. Today, all these countries of the European Union and for a long time have dragged on the talks on this subject, are already the biggest supporters for the introduction of the PNR and more and more talk about the introduction of a similar PNR in the countries of the European Union. Dear friends and colleagues, you do understand that a long time ago no one could have thought that under the Treaty of Prume we could exchange information from national dactiloscopic fingerprint systems and DNA profile? This is already a fact between all those countries that have fulfilled their commitment under the Prume Treaty. Let us recall that years ago, it was almost impossible for the Eurodac system under the Dublin Agreement to be used for police purposes. Today, this is the current topic that excites absolutely everyone in the European Union. You do understand that there are terrorists across the street, there are organizations that want to work without rules, break public order and affect the human rights of all citizens living in the world? Well, how can we counteract it? We can counteract when we make legislation that protects people's rights, but we can also make legislation that will enable us to adequately address all these potential threats. The power of a democracy is when there is a separation of powers. The power of a democracy is when appropriate control can be carried out by parliament, by all the parliamentary groups represented in the Bulgarian Parliament, to the executive power and to adapt our legislation to developed democracies, with countries where the rule of law is a top priority, as well as the rule of law. You can see that we are talking about restrictive measures, which will only be exceptional. And they will only be for areas that are affected or where a terrorist act is to be carried out and prepared. We need to guarantee the services that they can do their job and the very fact that we are looking for greater operationality does not mean that we will go the other way. There will be parliamentary control, which will be carried out by all MPs in each parliament, whether it will be the forty-third or the next. This must be the guarantee of the adoption of this Bill. The good thing is that there is a discussion, there is a discussion about...... and It's the power of democracy! It is nice between first and second readings and extending the deadline between them for proposals that will be made, to enable the details to be refined so that there can be a full guarantee that there will be no violation of human rights, but we will work to protect the human rights of all peaceful citizens who live both in Bulgaria and in other countries. We must ease the opportunity for the services to do their job and, of course, the subject of financial resources, with human resources, this is a very important topic. And I am convinced that when looking at the 2017 budget, this will be one of the main topics. Security is now a priority for the whole of Europe and a priority for all developed democracies. From this point of view, I think we should support the bill. The bill will give us a basis that we will be able to build on between first and second readings and with the adoption of this Law we will give really greater security and opportunity to all do their work and to fulfil their competence. I think it's a good opportunity that we gave the army a few months ago to help out the Border Patrol. You understand yourself that five or ten years ago this was not meant to be spoken and commented, and today, when you go to Brussels, you see that mostly military guards the offices of the European institutions. This means that we really need to be as badly robbed as possible in our conduct and be critical enough, but critical enough with the relevant arguments. I thank you for this debate, because it will really enable us to avoid these deficits that we had in 2013 with the experiment Yovchev. You know that the GERB Parliamentary Group then raised the issue May-June month about the filtration centers, which should have been for all refugees entering the territory of the country. This was the missed moment, and if the interviews were done, they were largely formal. I think we are already beginning to harvest the fruits of this short-sighted policy and not listening to what the GERB Parliamentary Group was proposing and the expertise that we were prepared to provide to the then government. Today, I thank the opposition, and thank those who are being held for being part of the ruling majority, but they are also critical, because there may also be good proposals in criticism that can be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u146	- What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] From the groups that have parliamentary time, I think your group is using its time. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Can I have a look at the time the groups have? Any other MPs? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov claims they have 40 seconds. We'll check it out now. Thirty-five! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u147	The strongest tool against terrorism is a forward-looking policy which does not provoke military, political and other conflicts. With this, unfortunately, Bulgaria cannot boast. The law is inadequate in prevention. He may become a pretext for violating fundamental rights, so we will not support him. [[(Noise and lines, calls from GERB: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u148	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a draft anti-terrorism bill, No 602-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 July 2016. Vote 152 MPs: 133, against 5, abstention 14. [[Applause.]] The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u149	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote an extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings of 14 days in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u150	14 days in total?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u151	Yeah, seven plus seven.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u152	Let's make it the maximum deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u153	If there's a need, we'll extend it again. During the holidays, the term stops running.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-28.u154	The deadline doesn't run during the vacation. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made that the time limit for proposals between the first and second votes be 14 days. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 147 MPs: 134 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, this concludes our legislative work for today. At 2:30 a.m. there is a meeting of the Social Committee with Chairman Ademov. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with six points in our legislative programme. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
