ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I propose to your attention the following programme for 21 and 22 December 2016. We start with yesterday's votes on the grounds of art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Point 1 "Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Energy Efficiency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. 3. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers supposed. 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. Importers "Miho Mihov" and a group of MPs. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Roads Act. The first bill is with importer Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, a second draft Law suppliers Aleksandar Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. 7. First vote on the Law on Supplement to the Law on Regional Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-127/26 September 2016) 9. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and on the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. We vote. Vote 156 MPs: 135 against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was proposed by Mr. Valeri Simeonov in the weekly program to be included for the second vote The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on excises and tax warehouses. The problem is that there is no second vote report drawn up, which is why the proposal is unacceptable for consideration in plenary. The second proposal for inclusion in our weekly program belongs to Mr. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. They propose a bill for interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 letter (s) of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, submitted on 19 September 2016 by Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The reason for proposing this bill is that yesterday, in the debate on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, we drew attention to the fact that it is a draft law on the same matter, mostly about the so-called "contributive parts" "how they are sold by the Privatization Agency," should there not be a decision of the National Assembly, as we believe when selling separate parts of enterprises included in the so-called "prohibition list." This bill yesterday was not included in the programme regardless of the provision of art. 78 of the Rules of Procedure. In order not to have any pointless arguments about whether or not it should be considered yesterday, and given that we have postponed the vote on the other bill for this morning, we are proposing it under art. 50, para. 3. We think it is also nice to consider it, as, by the way, it also requires the Rules, because it really looks at the same matter as we all saw from the debate yesterday, and from the statement on the left, and from the centre, and from the right, which have shown that there is obviously no gap between left and right beliefs on this subject, because to a large extent it is about elementary justice and the precise application of the law, rather than arbitrary interpretation and largely the circumvention of it by one or another official. We suggest we put it on the agenda, hold the debate. If you consider that we are not right that really separate parts of enterprises that are explicitly included in the ban list should not be sold without a decision of the National Assembly, so that we do not reach the absurdity when such an undertaking is on the ban list, however, they have sold all assets to it in the meantime and it has remained a hollow structure with only liabilities and liabilities. Obviously, that was not the goal of the legislator, at least as I understand it. I suppose many of you colleagues have voted these texts in previous years in the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. I am interested to hear what their will has been and isn't there really a circumvention of the Law, as happened with the diplomatic club, and as we heard yesterday on the left and from other colleagues, it is quite possible that it will happen in many other places? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u3	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 133 MPs: 53, Against 6, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. Revoting "Martin Dimitrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u4	Madam President, I see that some colleagues stand up. I think they failed to vote and I am giving the opportunity to correct their vote because: is it right for an enterprise to be on the ban list and to sell parts of it? The law never allowed such a thing. This is an interpretive bill that says that if an enterprise is on the ban list, you cannot sell its assets. Otherwise, at the end of the ban list, only the sign remains, and the assets have sold them. I call on the Bulgarian Parliament, on the basis of the speeches that were made yesterday, to keep your word. There was a colleague from BSP who said he was in favour of this thesis. Now let's see our colleagues from BSP vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let's see the President of the Commission - Peter Kanev, who abstained - how he voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u5	Mr. Dimitrov, you have a proposal to re-vote, not to defend the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u6	So I'm addressing you, colleagues, asking for a vote. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u7	Thank you. I get it. You want a re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Revoting, coworkers. They voted 119 MPs: 88 against 9, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 14 December 2016 to 20 December 2016: Project for a decision to support the continuation of the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings and the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to increase the financial resources to 2 billion. lv. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Energy. Report of the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2016. s 20 December 2016. Importer "The Commission for Disclosure of Documents under the Law. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. We are starting with the votes scheduled for today on bills discussed in the first vote in yesterday's plenary session. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2016. They voted 134 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016. Vote 131 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration with an importer of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs from 19 October 2016. They voted 129 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Mr. Dobrev, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mrs. Alexandrina Dimitrova, Head of Department of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mrs. Valentina Ilieva, State Expert in the Directorate for Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Effective Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u9	A reverse opinion? Please, honourable Members, vote for admission to the Chamber of the proposed persons. They voted 120 MPs: 111, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please provide access to the guest room. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u10	On 8 November 2016, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 7 December 2016. The Energy Efficiency Act was amended and supplemented by the Law on Energy Efficiency. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u11	Thank you. Honourable Members, speeches on the name of the Law and paragraphs 1 to 5 by importer? There aren't any. We are voting on the importer's enblock text, supported by the Commission on the name of the Law, as well as paragraphs 1 to 5, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied', and the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'; 2. In para. 4 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The difference between the total cumulative objective under para. 1 and estimated energy savings from the implementation of alternative measures shall be allocated as individual energy savings targets between the following debtors: 3. They're creating an al. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11: An alternative measure is any policy measure leading to energy savings in the final energy consumption other than the energy savings obligation scheme. (7) The alternative measures to be applied, their estimated energy savings and the authorities responsible for their implementation shall be specified in the national energy efficiency action plans and may apply one or more of the following policy measures: 1. energy taxes or CO2 taxes, the effect of which is to reduce the final consumption of energy; 2. schemes and financing instruments or fiscal incentives which lead to the application of energy-efficient technologies or techniques and the effect of which is to reduce the end-use of energy; 3. provisions or voluntary agreements which lead to the application of energy-efficient technologies or techniques and the effect of which is to reduce the end-use of energy; 4. standards and standards aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products and services, including buildings and vehicles, with the exception of standards and standards which are binding and applicable in accordance with European Union law; 5. energy efficiency labelling schemes, with the exception of schemes which are mandatory and applicable in accordance with European Union law; 6. education and training, including energy advisory programmes, leading to the implementation of energy-efficient technologies or techniques and the effect of which is to reduce the end-use of energy. (8) National Energy Efficiency Action Plans shall include one or more alternative measures meeting the following criteria: 1. provide for at least two interim reporting periods and implementation of the measure shall contribute to achieving the overall cumulative objective of energy savings in the final energy consumption by 31 December 2020; 2. determine the responsibilities of the executive bodies, the participating and implementing persons; 3. determine in a transparent way the energy savings to be achieved; 4. the volume of energy savings to be achieved by a measure shall be expressed in the form of final or primary energy consumption by conversion factors according to the regulation under art. 18, para. 1; 5. calculate the energy savings from the implementation of the measure by methods and principles according to the regulation under art. 18, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. ensure monitoring of the results and provide for appropriate measures where progress is inadequate; 7. provide annual publication of the data on annual trends in energy savings. (9) Alternative measures shall also meet the following additional criteria upon inclusion: 1. for the measures under para. 7, p. 2-6. The introduction of a control system, which also includes an independent verification of a statistically significant share of energy efficiency improvement measures; 2. for the measure under para. 7, p. 3 "Provides participating persons to submit and make public annual reports on the energy savings achieved, where applicable. (10) The scope and assessment of the effect of the alternative measures implemented shall be indicated in the annual accounts for the implementation of the national energy efficiency action plans. (11) No double counting of the energy savings from the fulfilment of individual objectives of the debtors and the application of alternative measures shall be allowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u13	Thank you. Statements under § 6? There aren't any. Colleagues, we are voting on an importer's text edited by the Commission for § 6. They voted 102 MPs: 97, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u15	Thank you. Statements referred to in paragraphs 7 to 10 by importer? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on texts of the importer, strongly supported by the Commission, for paragraphs 7 to 10 inclusive. They voted 99 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u16	According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Chapter 3, Section I is created art. 30a: Art. 30a. (1) In the case of the award of a supply contract of a value equal to or greater than those referred to in art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) and (c) 2 (b) and (c) of the Public Procurement Act, the public entity referred to in art. 5, para. 2, p. 1-6, t. 7, proposal first, t. 10-13 and 17 of the same Law buys the following products related to energy consumption: 1. products meeting the criterion of belonging to the highest possible energy efficiency class, in compliance with the need to ensure sufficient competition in cases where the product is included in the subject of the regulation under art. 12, t. 1 of the Consumer Protection Act on labelling requirements and the provision of standard information on energy-related products with regard to energy consumption and other resources; 2. products corresponding to energy efficiency indicators where the product does not fall within the scope of point 2. 1 but is included in the subject of an implementing measure under the Ordinance on the additional measures relating to the implementation of regulations adopted pursuant to art. 15 of Directive 2009/125/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products (no. ...); 3. office equipment designated and meeting the requirements of Annex "B" to the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the European Union on the coordination of energy efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment; 4. tyres meeting the criterion of the highest energy efficiency class of fuel use as defined in Regulation (EC) No 1222/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the labelling of tyres with regard to fuel efficiency and other essential parameters (OJ L 342,46 of 22 December 2009).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 122 (2) Alinea 1, t. 4 may not apply for safety or public health reasons for the purchase of tyres with the highest wet grip class or with the highest external rolling noise class under Regulation (EC) No 1222/2009. (3) In the case of the award of a service contract of a value equal to or greater than those referred to in art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 (b) and (d) of the Public Procurement Act, the public entity under para. 1 requires the contractor to use only products complying with the requirements of para. 1. The requirement applies only to new products purchased by contractors, in part or in whole, for the purpose of performing the services. (4) When an organ or person under para. 1 conclude a contract for the purchase or lease of a building, it must meet the minimum requirements for energy performance certified with a certificate of energy performance. (5) Paragraph 4 shall not apply where the purpose of the purchase is to: 1. mainly renewed or destroyed; 2. resold without being used for own use; 3. preserved as a building cultural value included in the scope of the Cultural Heritage Act. (6) Paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 shall not apply if they conflict with cost-effectiveness, economic feasibility, sustainability in a broader sense, technical suitability and the existence of sufficient competition. (7) Alinei 1-4 shall not apply to the contracts of the armed forces if they conflict with the nature and activity of the armed forces. (8) Alinei 1 and 3 shall not apply to the supply of military equipment and sensitive equipment within the meaning of § 2, item 2. 2 p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p. 65 of the additional provisions of the Public Procurement Act. (9) The Minister of Economy shall draw up and publish on the website of the Ministry of Economy a list of products under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u17	Thank you. Paragraph 11 statements? There aren't any. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer, edited by the Commission and supported by it, respectively, for § 11. Vote 98 MPs: 87, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 the word "new' is replaced by "newly built' and the words "design energy performance of the building' are replaced by "new building' characteristics. 2. In para. 2 words for the design energy performance of the building are replaced by the project energy performance of the building. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The buildings for public service in operation with a built-up area of more than 250 sq. m and in-service buildings are subject to mandatory audit and certification, with the exception of: (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." non-residential buildings with low energy consumption used for agricultural activity; (c) c. 6 the word "buildings" is replaced by "special buildings." 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. In para. 4 words by para. The following are replaced by the following for public service: 4. In para. 5 words for public service with built-up area over 500 sq. m, and as of 9 July 2015 -.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u19	Thank you. Statements? Paragraphs 12 to 20 have been reported. There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the importer's anblock texts, supported and edited by the Commission for paragraphs 12 to 20, respectively, including. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u20	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 4 is canceled. 2. In para. 7 the words "Includes an energy audit of the undertaking or industrial system concerned' shall be replaced by "Reply to the minimum requirements for energy audits set out in the regulation under para. 6................................................ 3. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 7 declare the implementation of an energy or environmental management system and provide evidence that the management system applied by them meets the minimum requirements for energy audits laid down by the regulation under para. 6 within one month of the acquisition of the certificate. (9) Enterprises carrying out production, transmission, distribution and supply of energy shall not be subject to mandatory investigation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u21	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the proposed paragraphs 21 to 30 inclusive? There aren't any. We vote on the texts of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission, for paragraphs 21 to 30 inclusive. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. Paragraph 35 "A proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35: .............................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The building is each newly built building up to 6 years since it was put into operation. 2. Point 20 is repealed. 3. point 25 is amended as follows: It's 25. A set of production buildings, facilities, technological equipment and auxiliary holdings within which an undertaking operates for the production of goods or the provision of services is a separate set of production facilities, facilities, technological equipment and ancillary holdings. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 30 words "design energy performance of a building" shall be replaced by a new building characteristics. 5. They're creating a t. 37 - 39: ..37. "Policy area' means a regulatory, financial, fiscal or voluntary instrument or instrument for providing information officially introduced and applied for the purpose of creating an ancillary framework, a requirement or an incentive for market participants to provide and purchase energy services and to take other measures to improve energy efficiency. 38. Non-residential buildings with low energy consumption used for agricultural activity are buildings that do not consume energy for heating, ventilation and cooling. 39. The primary energy consumption is internal consumption, reduced by extremely non-energy consumption. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. In Paragraph 4, after the word "Saves', the entry "31 December' is added. 2. In § 7 para. Two is canceled. 3. Paragraph 8 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u23	Thank you. Statements under paragraphs 31 to 36 including? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposals made by the importer, which are supported and edited by the Commission, for paragraphs 31 to 36 inclusive. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u24	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Economy shall draw up and publish the list under art. 30a, para. 1. (2) Until the establishment and publication of the list under art. 30a, para. 1 The current Guidelines on the application of energy efficiency and energy savings requirements, when awarding procurement for the supply of equipment and vehicles and buying and/or hiring buildings with high energy efficiency indicators, shall apply in order to minimise the costs of their service life.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u25	Thank you. Statements under § 37, which is part of the "Transitional and Final Provisions"? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 37. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u26	Paragraph 38 "A proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... The Energy Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2, in the text before t. 1 after the words "supplied' the business plans and "supplied' shall be added; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 t. 18 is amended as follows: 18. issue, transfer and revoke monthly certificates to electricity producers for the origin of the goods electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." certificates of origin of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat; (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 162, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal 4. In Chapter 11, in the name of Section II, the second sentence is created: "Sertificates of origin'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 sentence 3 shall be created: the monthly certificates of origin issued to the manufacturer shall be transferred to the public supplier, to the final suppliers respectively, for the quantity of electricity purchased from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat. (b) paragraphs 4 and 5 are repealed. 6. In Chapter 11, Section II is created art. 163b,163c and 163d: Art. 163b. (1) The certificate of origin shall be an electronic document which shall be issued for 1 MWh of electricity to a producer for the net production of electricity measured at the outlet of the plant and submitted to the relevant electricity network, subject to the requirements of accuracy, reliability and inability to forge. (2) The certificate shall contain: 1. the name, location, type and total installed power of the plant; 2. the start and end date of the period in which the electricity is produced; 3. the net calorific value of the fuel used for the production of electricity; 4. the amount of heat produced at the same time as electricity and the amount of heat consumed; 5. the quantity of electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat, determined according to the ordinance under art. 162, para. 3; 6. the savings of primary energy calculated according to the ordinance under art. 162, para. 3; 7. the nominal efficiency of the energy unit for cogeneration of electricity and heat; 8. the investment aid received for the construction of the energy facility for cogeneration of electricity and heat from a national or European support scheme; 9. any other type of support provided per unit of energy under a national support scheme; 10. the type of national support scheme; 11. the date on which each of the installations of the energy installation is put into operation; 12. the date and country of issue; 13. A unique identification number. (3) For each unit of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat, only one certificate of origin may be issued which has a period of validity of 12 months from the production of the energy unit concerned. (4) The certificate of origin shall be issued at the request of the manufacturer of the electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat and shall be used by the manufacturer to demonstrate that the electricity is produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat. Art. 163c. (1) The issue, transfer and cancellation of certificates of origin of electricity produced from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat shall be carried out electronically. (2) The certificate of origin shall be deemed to be revoked after being used to demonstrate the origin of the energy to the final customer or with the expiry of the period of validity. (3) The terms and procedure for issuing, transferring and repealing certificates of origin of electricity from cogeneration shall be laid down by a decree adopted by the Commission. Art. 163. (1) The Commission shall recognise the certificates of origin issued by the competent authorities in the other Member States of the European Union and in the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. (2) The Commission may refuse the recognition of a certificate of origin under para. 1 when one of the requirements of art. 163b, para. 2. (3) For each person entering into force a refusal under para. 2 the European Commission shall be notified. (4) The certificate of origin which is not recognised by the Commission shall be recognised when, after notification under para. 3 The European Commission adopted a decision requiring recognition. 7. In the additional provisions: (a) § 1 t. 51 is repealed; (b) in § 1a, the words "Directive 2004/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 on the promotion of cogeneration based on the demand for useful heat in the internal energy market, and amending Directive 92/42/EEC' and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC (OB, L 315/1 of 14 November 2012) The Commission proposes to create a new § 39: .............................................................................. Until the adoption of the ordinance under art. 163c, para. 3 of the Energy Act shall apply the ordinance under art. 162, para. 4 of the same law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u27	Thank you. Statements on the proposed two paragraphs? There aren't any. Before that, just to clarify that, in the vote on § 37, which is part of the "Transitional and final provisions', we have also voted on the name of the section of the "Transitional and final provisions'. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 38 and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 39. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals were adopted, with which the Second Reading Bill was adopted. Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We continue with the second item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. The National Representative Dimitar Gechev was the importer on 6 December 2016, adopted at the first vote on 16 December 2016. There is a report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Her chairman must be committed to other important issues. Therefore, the honour and responsibility to report the bill falls to Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 654-01-136, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Ivanov Gechev on 6 December 2016, adopted at the first vote on 16 December 2016. Law amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u29	Are there any statements on the name? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of the proposed Law. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u30	Under Paragraph 1, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18f, para. 9 words by the end of March shall be replaced by an annual one by the end of March and the final one shall be added by a model established by the Executive Director of the IRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u31	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1, edited by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u32	Under § 2 there is a proposal of Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 3, and the proposal by t. Two is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, p. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text prior to the letter, the words "year' shall be replaced by "yearly' and after the word "January', a template format established by an order of the Executive Director of the IRA containing "the IRA' shall be added. 2. In point (b) of the first subparagraph, the words "age' shall be inserted after the word "age'. 3. The following points shall be inserted in the words "in', "d', "d' and "e': (c) the number of employees with higher education in fisheries and aquaculture; (d) the number of persons working without payment; (e) income from sales, other revenue, value of the labour of persons working without payment, personnel costs, electricity, catch material, fishery feed, repair and maintenance, other operating costs, business subsidies and investment subsidies, basic capital consumption, total asset value, financial revenue and expenditure, liabilities, net investments used for fishing material and fishery feed and sales weight by aquaculture species; (f) administered veterinary medicinal products or treatment and mortality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u33	Paragraph 2 statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 2. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u34	Under § 3 there is a proposal from Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced Art. 27a. (1) A person who registered a fish processing undertaking and other aquatic organisms shall provide the IRA annually by the end of January with a form of economic statistics established by the order of the Executive Director of the IRA. (2) The form under para. 1 contains: (a) the number of employees by sex, age, nationality, duration of working hours and education; (b) the number of persons working without payment; (c) income from sale, other income, labour value of persons working without payment, personnel costs, electricity, fish and other raw materials for processing, other operating costs, business subsidies and investments, core capital consumption, total assets, financial revenues and costs, liabilities, net investments and the weight of raw material by type and by origin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u35	Paragraph 3 statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 3 edited by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u36	Under Paragraph 4, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: ............................................ A new article shall be created. 69b: Art. 69b. A person who violates the provision of art. 27a, para. 1, a fine of 200 to 500 BGN shall be imposed, respectively a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN 'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u37	Are there any statements on the proposed two paragraphs and the name of the division? I won't. We are voting for the entry of the importer for § 4, edited by the Commission, the text of the importer for the name of the division of the Law, supported by the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 5, supported by the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted unanimously, which was adopted at second reading and the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Moving on to item three on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. There is a report from the Environment and Water Commission. He'll be presented by Mr. Martinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u38	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I request access to the hall of Deputy Minister Boyko Malinov and Slava Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u39	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal for access to this House. Vote 66 MPs: 59 against 1, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. [[No quorum.]] Proceed with the bill. Guests aren't coming in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u40	Ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u41	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u42	Overruled procedure. I saw some of them couldn't vote. Vote 66 MPs: 62, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u43	♪ I can't believe the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. At its regular meeting held on 24 November 2016, the Committee on Environment and Water examined, at first reading, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Atanaska Nikolova The sitting was opened by President Stanislav Ivanov, who presented the guests and announced the agenda adopted by the Commissioners. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Boyko Malinov, who outlined the following main objectives of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act: First, transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment and the regulation of exemptions from environmental impact assessment (EIA) due to natural phenomena such as floods, landslides, earthquakes and, in exceptional cases for our country, the reduction of their effects on the environment and human health. Updating the criteria for assessing the need to carry out EIAs involving the risk of major accidents and disasters, including climate change, as well as specifying the requirements for the provision of information by the contracting entity of an investment proposal, ensuring the integrity and scope of documentation and its assessment under the procedure for assessing the need for EIAs, updating the content requirements of the EIA report, including and assessing the risk of major accidents and disasters, the impact of the investment proposal on the climate and vulnerability to climate change, demolition, demolition and decommissioning activities, as well as regulating the possibility of mandatory conduct of EIAs without a decision-making process, reducing the regulatory and administrative burden, easing and accelerating the investment process and preventing conflicts of interest for both the persons involved in the EIA procedures and for the competent environmental authority when updating the requirements for content of the EIA Decision and optimising the requirements for ensuring public access to the EIA documentation. The proposed Bill amends and complements: The Law on Air Cleanse for transposition of some of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions into the air of certain pollutants emitted from medium combustion plants and the updating and precision of provisions relating to fluorinated greenhouse gases and substances that deplete the ozone layer, as well as updating and clarifying terminology and provisions regarding emissions from stationary sources; the Law on noise protection in the environment, in order to specify the time limits for development/updating and approval of strategic noise maps and action plans; the Water Act, in order to ensure a coordinated procedure in accordance with art. 2 of Directive 2014/52/EU amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, on an environmental impact assessment and on an assessment of the deterioration of water in accordance with the Water Framework Directive; the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemical substances and mixtures; the revision of texts in relation to provisions which are no longer applicable relating to the old system of classification, labelling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures; and the revision of provisions relating to electronic reporting. The expected results of the implementation of the project can be summarised as follows: Harmonised and aligned with European national legislation by transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014, which will ensure greater efficiency of the EIA procedure for the contracting entities of investment proposals, for the competent authority to carry out the EIA procedure and for all interested natural and legal persons; Optimised requirements for ensuring public access to the EIA documentation and ensuring publicity and transparency of the EIA procedure at each stage of the EIA; Updated criteria for assessing the need for EIA and requirements for the content of the EIA report, which will ensure a higher quality of preparation and evaluation of the EIA documentation with an assessment of the risk of major accidents and disasters, as well as climate changes during the different phases of the investment proposals, including, in the event of decommissioning; updated Annex 1 to art. 92, p. 1 and Annex 2 to art. 93, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the EEAI in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2011/92/EU, which will optimize the EIA process and contribute to speeding up and easing the overall investment process in Bulgaria; effective implementation of Directive 2002/49/EU for environmental noise assessment and management. It will also be achieved: Harmonised and brought into line with European national legislation limiting emissions into the air of certain pollutants emitted from medium combustion plants; Updated legislation by repealing or correcting certain obsolete provisions and clarifying terminology with regard to emissions from fixed sources, as well as improving the protection of the chemical status of groundwater, including from indirect removal of pollutants into them by discharge of waste water into inappropriate facilities and by improperly constructed underground facilities and refined texts concerning the control of the application of the Law on the protection against the harmful effects of chemical substances and mixtures. Attitudes on the submitted bill took: the national representative Borislav Velikov on the transposition of directives, public discussion and used terminology, the national representative Manol Genov on existing drilling wells in the country, received responses from Mr. Malinov and Ms. Nikolova. The chairman invited other speeches, then ended the discussions and announced a voting procedure adopted by the Commission. After the vote, the Committee on the Environment and Waters with 13 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u44	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. At its regular meeting held on 7 December 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission's meeting was attended by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, as well as the following representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Maria Galabova, Head of the Department of Industrial Pollution Prevention, Mrs. Silvia Dimitrova, Head of the Department of Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Assessment and Mr. Georgi Mihaylov, Head of State Expert at the Department of Air Cleanliness. I. Among the main objectives of this Draft is the transposition into Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment. In its reasons, the importer of the Draft Law states that the new provisions should lead to optimization of the EIA process, which in turn would contribute to reducing the administrative burden and speeding up and easing the overall investment process in the country. The proposed changes provide for greater effectiveness of EIA procedures by updating both the criteria for assessing the need for EIA and the requirements for the content of EIA reports and decisions. In order to ensure the visibility and transparency of procedures, optimize and ensure public access to EIA documentation. II. At the same time, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill amend and supplement the Law on Air Cleanliness, the Law on Protection from Environmental Noise, the Water Act and the Law on Protection against Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. The amendments to these laws aim primarily to update them by repealing or correcting certain obsolete provisions and terminology, and to refine the harmonisation of existing national legislation by a number of EU acts. The expected results include more effective application of Directive 2002/49/EU on the assessment and management of noise in the environment, improvement of the protection of groundwater chemical status, as well as precision of texts relating to emissions from stationary sources and control of the application of the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. III. In addition, this Bill also aims to update the provisions of Bulgarian legislation regarding fluorocontaining greenhouse gases and substances that deplete the ozone layer in relation to some recently introduced implementing regulations. Last but not least, the Draft Law provides that part of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions into the air of certain pollutants emitted from medium combustion plants are to be introduced. The other requirements of the Directive are expected to be transposed by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Environmental Protection Act, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. The latest report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u47	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act No 602-01 - 53, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 15 December 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mr. Boyko Malinov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Paroleta Luleva On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The main part of the proposed changes relates to the transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment. The bill proposes regulation of exceptions to environmental impact assessment (EIA) due to natural phenomena and, in exceptional cases for our country, to reduce their effects on the environment and human health. The criteria for assessing the need to carry out EIAs with the inclusion and risk of major accidents and disasters, including caused by climate change, shall be updated. The information requirements of the contracting entity of an investment proposal shall be specified, updated and content requirements of the EIA report shall be updated. It is also proposed to regulate the possibility of mandatory conduct of EIAs without an assessment procedure, with a view to reducing regulatory and administrative burdens, easing and accelerating the investment process and preventing conflicts of interest for both the persons involved in EIA procedures and for the competent environmental authority. The transitional and final provisions also propose the relevant changes to several laws in the field of environmental legislation. During the discussion the MPs supported the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by 10 votes with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u48	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. This is a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Are there any willing to argue that, to offer the motives? I won't. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We will try to vote on it, honourable Members. Please, the Quaestors, invite moving and seated in the towers of the MPs and direct them to the hall. We'll check the quorum if we don't try to put it another way. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, No 602-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Martinov procedure, after which I will inform you, honourable Members, that there is a bill for a second vote coming up. Here you go, Mr. Martinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u49	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I ask that the deadline for proposals between first and second readings be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u50	A reverse opinion? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLOSE TO THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016, adopted at the first vote on 2 June 2016. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You know that there have been debates on certain paragraphs, there is a continuation to come. We have an additional report, the Committee on Environment and Water meets, Mr. Bajraktarov detailed during the debate explained what it is about. Now we'll see what the report tells us. Here's the extra report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u51	First of all, I would like to state that I really thank Mr. Bayraktarov for his interpretation of her texts. Dishowski and Assoc. Kotseva, who took part in our extraordinary Committee for Punishment of Texts. Additional report to the Report, inc. No 653-11-11 of 12 July 2016, for the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 602-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016, adopted on the first vote on 2 June 2016. There's a proposal under § 23. This is the proposal of the gentlemen Willy Lilkov and Borislav Veliev: In § 23 of Article 23 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on The amount of the product fee under para. 1 shall be determined on the basis of the necessary material and technical and administrative costs for separate collection, reuse, recycling and/or recovery of waste. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016: In Al. 7 sentence 2 is created: Product fee is not paid for biodegradable plastic carrier bags, as well as plastic shopping bags under conditions defined by the regulation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. persons who have not submitted a report with factual findings under art. 18, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. In para. 2 words. Two-fives shall be replaced by one-two-fives. Two-six-six. 3. In para. 6 Finally, the requirements of the law and the regulations on its application are added. 4. In para. 7 all over the words "shopping bags' shall be replaced by "plastic shopping bags' and a sentence shall be created second: The product fee shall not be paid for biodegradable plastic carrier bags as well as plastic shopping bags under conditions laid down by the regulation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 5. The creation of para. 8. The time limits for issuing the orders under para. 2 and 3 defined by the regulations under art. 13, para. 1 shall not apply where further verification is necessary to clarify the facts and circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u52	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the reported § 23? I won't. Including Mr. Bayraktarov is pleased. Honourable Members, we are voting first on the proposal of the MPs Mr. Lilkov and Mr. Velikov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 78 MPs: 29, Against 2, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 23. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u53	Paragraph 57, which becomes § 59. There is a proposal made by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of our Rules of Procedure in version 4 November 2016 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 5 the words "any natural person' shall be replaced by a single trader; (b) To be created t. 37a: It's 37a. "Recycling of ships' is an activity of complete or partial dismantling of scrap ships in a ship recycling facility for the purpose of the recovery of elements and materials for processing, preparation for reuse and reuse in the simultaneous management of hazardous and other materials, including related operations such as storage and treatment of components and materials on-site, but does not include their further processing or disposal in separate facilities. (c) c. 45 the words "any natural person' shall be replaced by a single trader; (d) shall be established. 47 and 48: ..47. The National Waste Information System (NCIS) is a centralized system of the Environmental Executive Agency for the electronic conduct and submission of documents required by this Law and its implementing regulations. 48. "Plastic shopping bags' are shopping bags, including degradable, with or without a handle, made of plastic, which are offered to consumers at the point of sale of goods or products. 2. In § 2 is created t. 13: "13." Commission Directive (EU) 2015/1127 of 10 July 2015 amending Annex II to Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives (OJ L 184/13 of 11 July 2015) and Corrigendum to Commission Directive (EU) 2015/1127 of 10 July 2015 amending Annex II to Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives (OJ L 297/9 of 13 November 2015);) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u54	Thank you. Words under § 59, new? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on an importer's text edited by the Commission for § 57, which becomes § 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u55	And Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u56	Yes, it is therefore integrated into this paragraph, it is supported. Yes, Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal is supported and is accordingly implemented in this paragraph. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And now, the last
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u57	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 18 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 and shall apply from 1 January 2018. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u58	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer from the Commission for § 68. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted unanimously, with which the final of the Bill at second reading. Mr. Bayraktarov, please come in for a procedure. Please, for the next bill General Mihov to prepare to report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. My procedure is, first of all, to thank my colleague Stanislav Ivanov for the rapid reaction and Mrs Tsacheva also for showing, in fact, when there is a model of dialogue, how best solutions can be achieved. It was just an example that there was no need to whistle, no need to whistle, no need to blame someone for reacting, but the opposite is that when there is a dialogue, when there is a hearing, the best is achieved, and the experts who responded immediately for free. The colleague Stanislav Ivanov mentioned who they were. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. It was a thank-you procedure. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF [[speaking indistinctly]] Wait for me to continue my sentence, the Law on the Veterans of War. The representatives are Miho Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015, adopted at the first vote on 6 April. In accordance with Before that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u61	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u62	Your card's not picking up anything. Mr. Todorov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u63	I would like to address you in your capacity as chairman and to the MPs who are in this Chamber today, to ask: how long will we be playing this circus? We spend all day dealing with some euro-directives, plastic bags, aquaculture, frogs, turtles, mussels and fish, until the major pressing problems in the country have stopped. As early as 2014, Mr. Chairman, we have submitted 30 draft decisions that have not yet entered the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u64	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Todorov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u65	My procedural proposal, Mr President, is to finally put in place these proposals by...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u66	I get it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u67	...heat and electricity to stop illegal immigrants, not all day, Mr. Chairman, to deal with frogs, mussels, fish and all kinds of nonsense...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u68	I get it! We know your opinion! I heard you! We are dealing with important issues for the state which have been adopted at the Presidency Council. I recommend that you attend the Presidential Council and stand up for the relevant consideration of the bills. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova will present to us the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and, respectively, the Draft at second reading. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u69	In addition, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Moldova adopted a decision to amend and supplement the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015, adopted at the first vote on 6 April 2016. The Law on War Veterans was amended and supplemented by the Law on War Veterans. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u70	Thank you. Statements by name? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission for the name of the bill. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Proposal from the MPs Mihail Mikov, Yanaki Stoilov, Atanas Merdjanov, Angel Naydenov, Cornelia Ninova, Valeri Zablyanov, Tasco Ermenkov and Atanas Zafirov: screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 at the end of the text, after the word "Bulgaria" a The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u72	Statements? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on a proposal from MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs to create § 1a, which the Commission does not support. Vote 87 MPs: 19 against 44 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u73	Under § 2, the Commission does not support the proposals referred to in points 1, 2 and 7, in principle supports the proposals referred to in points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 and proposes the following amendments to § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 3: "3." dispensary report from general practitioners and specialists as well as regular medical examinations. 2. Previously on "T." 3 becomes t. 4 containing the following content: "4." recreation and treatment once a year, but not more than 14 days, in the medical establishments of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, the National Insurance Institute and the municipalities. If the veteran needs, at the discretion of a physician, an escort, the means of their stay are at the expense of the state budget. 3. Previously on "T." 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 5 and in that sentence the second sentence is amended as follows: If the veteran uses a travel companion, the cost of the cost of the tickets is at the expense of the state budget. 4. Previously on "T." 5 is going to be t. 6 and in the third sentence is amended as follows: If the veteran uses a travel companion, the cost of the cost of the tickets is at the expense of the state budget. 5. Previously on "T." 6 is going to be t. 7. 6. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 and in it is created sentence two: "The same law has their wives (wives).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u74	I would ask you to read points 1, 2 and 7, which are not supported by the Commission, because we need to hear them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u75	"1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 sentence first, the words on a list established by the Ministry of Health are deleted and finally added a document that is a veteran. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 sentence first after the word "help" is added a hospital (stationary) and outpatient in full volume according to the needs of the veteran and the words "saved" are replaced by a "successful" and in a sentence second after the word "Secures" is added a "needed" for consumables in research and operations (eye lenses, joint lenses, etc.). 7. Previously on "T." 6 is going to be t. 9 and in it after the word "Citizens" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u76	These are points which are not supported by the Commission. Statements? Mr. Ivanov from the Parliamentary Group of the Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a very brief note, which will be editorial: in § 2, item 2. 4 to drop the word from the expression "recreation and treatment." There can't be any rest in a medical facility. There may be a treatment and a stay. The word "retarded" is to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u78	The word "retarded" is to fall? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u79	There can't be any rest in a hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u80	Anyone want a line? Mrs. Angelova, there will be a semantic specialized dispute here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u81	The word "recreation" is added because it is not about medical institutions, but about sanatoriums. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u82	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Very fast and short. Within the meaning of the Law, a medical establishment is also a pharmacy. Pharmacies are also conducted in medical facilities. I mean, here's the thing. Whether it's in a sanatorium or a hospital, there's no expression. There's no way to put it in the Law. That's why I suggest that we record the treatment and prevention, but the rest of the hospital doesn't fit into a medical facility. My amendment is very brief: the word "relax" to fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u84	Your thesis is that recreation can only be found in nature.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u85	There can't be any rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u86	Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please rest in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Law had to be written extremely, colleagues, to respect mostly war veterans. He's absolutely right, my colleague Dr. Ivanov. He's absolutely right, so please don't get into any unnecessary debates. Once again, the law had to be written extremely, and out of respect for veterans, we don't have to go into unnecessary squabbles. The law is in seven paragraphs. Therefore, I ask that we proceed to the vote on Dr. Ivanov's proposal, because he is absolutely right. [[Noise and lines.]] I don't want to get into pointless discussions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u88	The treatment is combined with rest. Okay. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. My fellow Members, first of all, I shall put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the importer for § 2 in the section under point 2. 1, 2 and 7. Vote 78 MPs: 9 against 2, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial proposal made by Mr. Ivanov for § 2, item 2. 4 on the Commission's proposal to take a vacation and to become only a once per year service. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal of the importer following the amendment of the Commission, together with the editorial proposal for recreation made a short time ago, for § 2. We are voting on a proposal and edited by the Commission paragraph. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Report § 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u89	Paragraph 3:...................................................................................... 6, para. 1 after the word The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u90	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the proposed two paragraphs? I won't. Firstly, honourable Members, I put to the vote a proposal by the Commission § 3 by importer to be rejected. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are finally voting on the text of the importer for § 4 which, on a proposal from the Commission, becomes § 3. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, with which the Second Voting Bill is adopted. We are about to see a bill of first voting on the Roads Act. We'll start with him after the break. There are three or four reports. I'm calling a recess, fellow Members, until 11:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u91	Honourable Members, we are continuing today's agenda meeting. Moving on to point six: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ROADS. Importers are: Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs, 20 April 2016, and the second draft of Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov, submitted on 3 November 2016. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. I have a feeling we're at parliamentary control. That's who we are. Actually, we have a regular meeting. There is no report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The other two committees to which the bills are allocated have submitted reports. Firstly, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government has a report on the bill submitted by Mr. Petar Slavov. Meanwhile, we have guests from Kubrat Municipality young people. If we love, let's give them a round of applause. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests! The report is on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act submitted by Mr. Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. At its regular meeting held on 19 May 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 654-01-59, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 20 April. In accordance with Mr. Lazar Lazarov took part in the meeting of the Commission at this time Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov. The Bill proposes to introduce a three-month bill of wine as well as a daily bill for all road vehicles. It is also proposed that, depending on the period for which they are issued, the cards be valid for the relevant calendar period of the day on which they are issued. In the opinion submitted by the Road Infrastructure Agency, there was disagreement with the proposed changes and the main argument for that is that the current European Union directive does not provide for six-month wine charges and none are introduced in any Member State. It has been noted that the prevailing part of the proposed changes will be implemented in practice with the introduction of the electronic wine system. During the discussion, some of the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes. Other MPs pointed out in their comments that this Bill lacks the necessary financial justification for the necessary costs to be incurred for introducing a new wine fee and printing new wine stickers, and that the proposed changes will be implemented in practice with the introduction of the electronic system. On the basis of this discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 8 votes..................................... and 6 votes.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u93	Thank you. Here is the Commission's report on the next bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u94	The next bill was submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. At its regular meeting held on 8 December 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 654-01-131, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov on 3 November 2016. Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Doncho Atanasov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, took part in the committee meeting. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Nenkov. The proposed changes provide for the introduction of a new type of road traffic charge, namely a compensatory fee, which will be determined by the Council of Ministers depending on the type of vehicle. The compensation fee will only be paid when it is established by the relevant control authorities that a driver of a vehicle has used the Republican roads without paying the legally established charges for the use of the road network. The bill proposes the period of validity of the wineries to be defined in the regulation under art. 10, para. 6 of the Law. In order to synchronise the provisions with the proposed changes, the Transitional and Final Regulations also provide amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act. The representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Road Infrastructure Agency have expressed their support for the bill, paying attention that the adoption of the proposals will improve the system of control and collection of wine charges, which in turn will lead to an increase in the proceeds that will be aimed at improving the state of road infrastructure. During the discussion the MPs supported the bill. Questions were also raised regarding the readiness of the Road Infrastructure Agency to create the necessary organisation to implement the changes related to the introduction and collection of the compensation fee, to which representatives of the Agency were given a positive response. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government unanimously, with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Roads Act, No 654-01-131, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. These were the reports on behalf of the importers. Mr. Bayraktarov, you are an importer of the Bill with Mr. Petar Slavov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the bill submitted by me, colleagues Petar Slavov, Hristian Mitev and Martin Dimitrov is actually a bill dictated after a very wide public discussion held online, with more than 2000 people. More than 90% of citizens who participated in this consultation strongly expressed their opinion, position, opinion that such a bill is pressing, as it prevents an injustice currently existing in relation to wine stickers. What's this about? First of all, honourable Members, I would like to open the clamp that the report by the Agency There's some kind of misunderstanding. In the course of the discussion in the leading Commission, the Agency itself was also convinced and agreed that this project, in the first place, leads to a higher collection of fees from the sale of wine stickers. In order for this to happen, it must be introduced, first of all, a three-month bill that is missing and thus creates a huge period, an interim period between a monthly and an annual bill. That is, many of the citizens are therefore forced, unfortunately, to break the law, to risk only and only not to buy a wine for the reason that it does not meet their needs. We also want to introduce another form of the wine sticker that exists in freight transports. It serves mostly people living in small settlements, where they rarely have to travel from the small settlement to the big city, and they too, as this happens very rarely, much of them prefer to risk rather than buy an excuse sticker to serve their needs, to be within the law people and to enter more revenue into the treasury. From this point of view, by applying this methodology, we have done calculations which have been shared by experts that this way the revenue portion will be increased within 50 to 80 million. BGN, which, believe me, is no small thing. Moreover, in this way we will increase the culture of Bulgarian citizens, given that they will already have the opportunity not to become lawbreakers only and simply because they do not have the opportunity to comply with the law. The second moment, which is extremely important and also concerns an injustice, this is the wine stickers - I will give an example with the annual wine: if in May you buy an annual wine, it will not apply until May next year, and as you know, it will apply until 31 January next year. So the citizen is practically damaged in four months. We believe that it is right for the wine sticker to apply from the date of purchase to the relevant date, i.e. the calendar period for which it is issued. You cannot buy an annual blame sticker and at the same time it turns out that it is not an annual blame sticker because it does not apply, as should be a calendar year. I thank the Commission for taking this approach and supporting the adoption of this Bill. I hope that we will do a good deed at the end of the year to support, colleagues, this bill of ours. To see that the MPs are not, after all, some kind of soulless people who do not see what the problems are, just the opposite you know, the last months are constantly being planted that almost people living on some other planet, on another earth. All of you, for the most part, do not say that you are all drivers of motor vehicles, very well understand this problem. I hope you will support this bill of ours, because it is good and most importantly it brings a higher collection rate, which is extremely important, as well as increasing the culture of Bulgarian citizens in this direction, not to break the law to save some lev. That's what I want to tell you. Personally, I will support the submitted bill by my colleague Stanislav Angelov and Alexander Nenkov, because I also think it is a good bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. The second bill was tabled by the gentlemen Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. Mr. Nenkov, on behalf of the importer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Road Law, which we have imported with my colleague Stanislav Ivanov, concerns a problem which in recent years has been seriously under the supervision of the Road Infrastructure Agency (Railway Infrastructure) and a large part of the transit passengers across the territory of the country, a large percentage of them, we are talking about about about about about 50 percent and more percentage between 50 and 60%, do not pay the so-called "excuse sticker" and trying to pass through the country without paying the respective fee. This is, of course, entirely to the detriment of the revenue of the Road Infrastructure Agency. In fact, the use of this infrastructure is at the expense of the other citizens who pay each year very conscientiously for their wine stickers according to their needs. What's the problem? The problem is that the intruders themselves, the transit passengers themselves, when they are stopped, the authorities of the police do not have the ability to quickly sanction the intruders. Violators prefer to be drawn up an act under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, after which it is absolutely clear to themselves that it is very difficult, very far away is the time when they will be sanctioned. Currently, the fine for irregular passing and unbought wine stickers is BGN 300. What we are trying to introduce with this bill is to have the so-called compensation fee. This compensatory fee will have two advantages: the first advantage is that it will be able to be paid on the spot and when an intruder is stopped, it will have to choose between two options: either to be sanctioned under the current order Exactly to have the incentive to force him to pay his fee at the moment. Otherwise, the other innovation is that it cannot continue its path, therefore it cannot leave the country and must be stopped from moving. By paying his compensation fee, he will have the opportunity to leave the country within the next 24 hours, but no more. The problem, which has also been identified so far by the Road Infrastructure Agency, is precisely that there is a lack of specialized points of checkpoints where such wine stickers can be purchased. This with the Bill will be implemented, more powers will be given to the Customs Agency and where there are checkpoints, there will also be specialized units where to sell wine stickers, as the rest is sold in the network of petrol stations and so on. But more importantly, than being able to buy such an blame sticker, I am talking specifically about those passing through the country, is that assuming that a driver of a vehicle has risked, has passed through the whole territory of the country, has not been sanctioned, has not been caught in violation, but by arriving at the checkpoint already, when it is noticed by the customs authorities that he has not bought a winepot, will be punished with both options, either through a composite fee or by the order currently established in the Law on Administrative Infractions and Punishments. I believe that this amendment in the Roads Act will give much more opportunities for revenue, much higher collection, because indeed the problem with transiting drivers of vehicles is very big. As I said earlier, nearly 60% of drivers do not buy wine stickers and tend to take risks. By creating this opportunity for both checkpoints to be sanctioned and the introduction of this composite fee, it will certainly be of a disciplined nature, and we know that there are countries through which you go, where there are very serious sanctions, with very high controls. I am convinced that transiting vehicles with the introduction of this fee within the coming months will literally spread between drivers and people will be much more careful when trying to break the rules. I really appeal for the bill to be passed. It is particularly aimed at people who break road traffic rules, do not buy wine stickers and it is entirely concerned with the so-called gastrebaiters, as they really are users of this infrastructure, but are extremely irregular and this is to the detriment of all other taxpayers, all people who strictly comply with the rules and buy their wine stickers. Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. As you well know, they can be parallel to both laws. Everyone can speak on them, after which the vote will be separate. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take into account the two bills, but first of all I would like to comment on the one that we have imported with our colleague Bajraktarov from the Patriotic Front. He presented it quite thoroughly, but let me say again for clarity that the bill concerns the introduction of a three-month bill and the possibility that the wine will be valid from the time of purchase. That is, when you buy an annual wine, it does not expire at the end of the calendar year, if you buy it for example in April, until April of next year, that is, really be annual, and not only a few months, as it is now. Why do we think it is fair for such a bill to be supported and to introduce an intermediate bill between the current monthly and annual ones? We all understand that this is a really huge gap between the monthly and annual, which remains incomplete. It's quite logical to have another kind of guilt sticker appear there. Whether it's three or six months old, it's already a matter of debate maybe between readings. He admitted, by the way, that despite the fact that the Commission supported this Bill, the Road Infrastructure Agency gave some old opinion on another bill, because this did not comment on the six-month bill and they had written, listening to the report that they generally did not support having a six-month wine. So I assume that some really serious inaccuracies have allowed, which is not good. But I want to give you a few examples that are very revealing. As we know, in Bulgaria the annual ticket is BGN 97, the monthly one is BGN 30. Notice in our neighbor Romania how things are. There is not only a three-month bill and it is currently working, but this three-month bill is cheaper than in Bulgaria our monthly one. That is, Romania's quarterly is cheaper than Bulgaria's monthly bill. Naturally, we ask ourselves the question, are we so much richer than the Romanians that our fellow citizens will pay three times as much? Obviously, that's not the situation. In nearby Austria, where we know that the standard of living is much higher, there is a two-month wine, which, colleagues, notice, costs 13 euros, which is also cheaper than the monthly wine in Bulgaria. Again, are we so much richer than the Austrians that our citizens will pay more? Such examples continue and are evidence that there is no problem with the directive, as I have heard somewhere mention in the report, i.e. the European Directive allows two-month, three-month or six-month, a matter of national legislature's assessment. We've been working very hard in these for nearly eight months since the Bill was introduced. I would like to point out to you that we have not only conducted several surveys in which more than 90% of the people have supported the introduction of such an blame sticker, but we have also asked questions to the ministers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to data from the Ministry of Interior in 2015, there were over 5000 people who were captured, made criminal decrees that they were driving without a bill. Think of how many have not been captured! In other words, what Bajraktarov said about this measure will probably further encourage the collection of revenues, because people will see that it is fair when they drive their car two months outside the village or three, they can buy a three-month bill and within them to drive it and pay fairly for what they use, they will probably pay for it, while now many of them are doing all sorts of experiments. I assume you've seen on the news there were all kinds of methods.............................................................. including a rental bill, which is completely absurdicuous and clearly leads to reduced collection. The key to this is indeed the sense of injustice that exists, because at the moment, as we have already commented, often the wine that is purchased is for a much longer period than can actually be enjoyed and in people remains a sense of injustice. So I suggest that we also support this Bill, undoubtedly and the draft proposed by my colleague Nenkov deserves support because it is also in the direction of collection. But in order for there to be a collection, it is important to have justice as well. I believe that, in practice, this will be achieved with the adoption of both laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There are two very important issues in the bill that we have submitted together with our colleagues Slavov and Bajraktarov. One very important question is what is this annual wine? If you buy today's annual bill, dear colleagues, how long will it last? By January 31, next year, that means 40 days. You go, you buy, and there's an annual bill, it's 40 days. Is that fair, I'd like to ask you? Since this Parliament has shown that we can unite around important solutions and important objectives and show that we are fair to the citizens, I call on you to be another topic on which to unite and show that we can work together and vote together when it comes to justice. Let by writing an annual bill, it be annual, to be valid for 12 calendar months. The worst is, colleagues, when the state is misleading citizens, when the state is lying, I would say citizens. He can't write on top of it a year's wine and it can't be valid for a month or 20 days! The second very important issue is to have a 3-month bill so that citizens who use their cars outside the settlements during the summer season can have a fair solution for themselves. If now a Bulgarian citizen comes and asks us the following thing, why is there a three-month bill in Romania?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u103	Only in Romania.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u104	And it costs 13 euros.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u105	But it's only in Romania.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u106	The three-month wine in Romania, colleagues, costs less than the monthly wine in Bulgaria. What could we tell this citizen? The only thing I can tell him is that the system in Bulgaria, unfortunately, is not fair. Because I see in your face reasonable people, I turn to reason in you. Because a colleague just said that this was only in Romania, that is not true. In Austria, colleagues, there's a two-month bill. In Austria!? Listen to me, there's a two-month bill in Austria! Do you know how much it costs? It costs 13 euros! This is the flexible approach that allows people who use their cars only during the summer period to pay as much as they need, the state to be fair to them, to their way of life. So, my fellow Members, there is no more...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u107	Is there 300 grand in Austria that didn't pay insurance?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u108	Please rest in the room. You will all have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u109	And since the following question is asked, were there 200,000 in Austria that did not pay insurance? The more flexible decisions we make, the more people will pay. [[Heckling]] The percentage of non-payments will decrease. When he sees that he can only pay for the summer, only for the period when he uses the car will he pay. [[Heckling]] Finally, fellow Members, this is an example of a topic on which I wish Parliament to be united and together to make a fair decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. First line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dimitrov, I apologize, but when you say "A" you have to say "B" too. When you say that in Romania the wine is cheaper, you should say that in European Commission research Romania is the country with the worst infrastructure in all of Europe. This means little income and little investment in infrastructure. When you talk about Austria, because it was cheaper there too, Switzerland was often quoted when we saw the Bill in the Commission, these are countries where they collect revenue not only from the Road Infrastructure Agency through wine stickers, but they also have a separate tax that is paid every year and each province is paid extra. These are countries with huge, huge resources that invest in infrastructure. And we now have no more than 300 million wine stickers. lv. per year, and on average on an annual basis at the World Bank, in order to make the infrastructure that we want and what we like in Austria and Switzerland, the countries that you say are basically 800 million. lv. per year. You understand what the abyss is between 300 million and 300 million. lv. And 800 million. lv. So when you say where it was cheaper, tell her what the realities are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u112	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u113	Dear colleagues, what we are proposing will increase the collection rate, will not bring it forward. That's where you're wrong. The collection rate will increase when the person finds out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u114	By the line, not a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u115	By the line, the line, if you found out, was that it would reduce the collection rate from the vintage.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u116	Mr. Dimitrov, the call is to talk about B.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u117	The collection and revenue in the state treasury will increase as it is a type of fee. When people can choose more flexible solutions, on the contrary, there will be more revenue and more people will buy wine stickers. That's the line. The revenue in the budget will be greater and, accordingly, the opportunity to be maintained and the infrastructure will be even greater. Colleagues, the claim that by introducing a three-month bill, revenue in the budget will decrease is not true. They will increase and, accordingly, the possibilities for additional costs by the State will increase. Thanks for the cue, and I want to tell you this. I am very inclined to introduce these decisions from 1 January 2018. I understand that this cannot be done in a short time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u118	That's a statement, not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u119	So 1 January 2018 is a reasonable period of time and I call on the Bulgarian Parliament to decide together and to unite. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u120	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u121	Mr. Chairman, I know that you are in a difficult situation, but when someone makes a reply to a spokesperson and you give him the floor for the duplicate, let him answer the line that is made and not repeat his speech. According to the line that was made, I couldn't find out from the duvet, is there any additional taxes in Romania, is there any additional taxes in addition to the wineries in Austria, is there any additional taxes in addition to the wineries in Switzerland? Everything else was simple because he may well know the speaker that this is such a fact, and he wants to deceive us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u122	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov called Mr. Dimitrov by saying "A" to say "B" too. I urged Mr. Dimitrov to say "B" and you can see that in the protocols. So I think I've done my job. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. [[Heckling]] Please, every Member of the National Assembly has the opportunity to make his arguments. You have the floor, you have every reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I regret that we see discontent in some of our fellow Members that I am going to speak, but this is indeed a very important issue and it is related to whether we want to develop our infrastructure and how we want to develop it. Colleagues, I will speak about the bill of colleagues Dimitrov, Bayraktarov and Slavov and I will say why we will not support such a bill. There are several reasons. When we talk about how we want to introduce additional wine stickers, we need to look for two things - economic logic and the social element. I dare say that what fellow Members have tabled as a bill is rather entirely aimed at the social element, without, however, in any form affecting the economic and financial model of what will happen and the impact of these two new wine stickers on the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. In order not to talk nonsense, I will quote a few precise data made by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, ordered by the Ministry of Education and the Agency of Road Infrastructure, precisely in relation to the bill which the colleagues have imported. I'll split the two wine stickers separately. Assuming we want to make an guilty sticker for one day right now. First of all, we have to say the following: "There is no country in Europe where there is an blame sticker in a day. And it's not an accident. Each of their Road Agency, as they say in each country, has at least a week-long bill, and it is aimed at more revenue in the agency itself, so that they have more opportunity for resources to invest in infrastructure. I'll give you a statistic. I'm saying again, this is based on a BAS report. If, at the moment, as of November, I am quoting precisely the data by November 2 million have been sold. 510,000. 544 one-week wineries worth 38 million. lv. At a price of 15 leva, as it is now. If we introduce such a one-day sticker and assume that of that 2.5 million. lv. Half of them are buying supposed to be less, but assuming that half of them are buying such day stickers, as this wine will cost 2% of the annual one, it will be about 2 leva. On average, perhaps even a little less, the difference, the minus that will come for the Road Infrastructure Agency, will be 9 million. lv. depending on how many citizens benefit from this option. Moreover, we need to say here who will make the most of these day-old wine stickers, given that we have already spoken about a compensatory fee, namely for these gastarbyters, for these transiting citizens across the country. We will prove to be the only country in Europe to introduce such a sticker, which will benefit those so-called "gastarbyters." Which other Bulgarian will buy? The percentage will be very, very small and even the difference of these 9. 17 million. lv. can be much larger than quoted by the Institute of BAS. When it comes to the three-month wines, firstly, it is important to say that I quote the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences again, because the motive of the colleagues really sounds good, I agree that the Bulgarians who live abroad and come to the country for summer do not need to buy one-year wineries. It's a fact, I agree. So there's a one-month bill made, and it's made up for a reason. The average duration of residents of Bulgarian citizens in the country during the so-called vacations is one month where they live and come to visit their relatives. And it's not a coincidence that this wine that was introduced by 2005 is a month. In my opinion, anyone can do a very accurate math. If he doesn't have enough for a month, he can buy another bottle of wine, of course, it's not that fatal. Moreover, even if we look at it from another point of view, real 20 days is the average duration of the holidays of each working person. Excuse me, colleagues, who will be this working citizen in another country who will come and sit in the country for three months? It would be nice if everyone could afford it, but I think these are units of people working somewhere else and someone let them stay in their homeland for three months. I just want to point out something else. If we accept and again proportionately distribute how much this monthly bill will cost, it will be in the order of 45 BGN. At 45 leva. and what BAS has concluded as a conclusion is that less than 1% of people will benefit from this blame sticker, which will be in minus three months, again I say, in the minus of the Road Infrastructure Service, somewhere around 19 million. lv. .. according to the different models. And if we sum up the introduction of these wineries in digital terms from the point of view of the Agency's budget, we will find that between 30 million and 56 million, I quote precisely, are the possible losses for the Road Infrastructure Agency. And here the most important thing, fellow Members, is the political question: what do we want? I am strongly opposed and no one can prove that this will lead to more collection, as the system of wine stickers has been introduced for cars since 2005. The percentage of offenders without wine stickers on an annual basis, I cannot quote exactly, I forgot the percentage, but very few people are Bulgarian citizens who do not buy wine stickers. Those who don't buy wine stickers are the ones who pass through the country. And now here's the question. I just told my colleague Petrov that these countries, which we quote, make billions of investments every year in their infrastructure. Whoever has had the opportunity and has traveled to other countries such as Austria, Switzerland and so on, you see what this is about, what their infrastructure is and what our infrastructure is. Indeed, thanks to the government's efforts in recent decades, many investments have been made in this direction in the last 10 years, not without the European Structural Funds. But we have to give ourselves an answer to this. After 2020, you understand very well that these Structural Funds will not be able to finance such roads, so-called roadways, highways and so on. The resource will be much more limited than the state currently has. And what I just said as statistics at 20,000. km of road infrastructure at the moment, six thousand are in bad shape, 10,000 are about, and four thousand are really running at the level we want them to. Like, of course, for these four thousand we have to realize that they are subject to maintenance and we cannot just make them and abandon them. Currently, with the new prices of wine stickers, the total revenue of the Agency will not exceed 300 million. At 800 million on average for that 20,000. km of roads that we want to make them look like an Austrian and Swiss model are needed about 800 million. lv. per year. You understand yourself that without additional revenue in the Agency's budget, we cannot expect and drive the roads we want. Because those countries that you are quoting are countries that, besides road wine stickers, have special taxes and tax every single driver of a vehicle. Separately, each area in Switzerland has a separate tax, each one of them voted it out on its own, how much a driver has to pay on top to use this infrastructure. And here we are talking about a huge abyss, which we, with the revenue from wine stickers at the moment, have no way to cover. And in conclusion, I would like to say the following thing. What I agree with your bill is the introduction of the so-called time frame of the wine sticker. It is fair that when you pay an guilty sticker, either for one year, either for one month or for one week, it will apply from the date until the date of its purchase and until the date of its completion. That is, of course, true of all year-round wines. However, I would like to stress that this procedure is currently underway, which will actually introduce the so-called toll system for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes and on those floors, namely light cars. With the introduction of this system, this fair model will be introduced. Then you can pay from time to time when the wine sticker applies and you can use it. At the moment, everything else you are proposing will violate a principle that has already worked since 2005, people are used to it and I do not see what the problem is to wait another year for this injustice, if I accept it as injustice, to be cleared with the introduction of this TOL system. So, colleagues, I'm sorry, there is no way we can support your bill at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u124	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and announcing according to art. 69 of the Rules of Procedure tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. vote on this bill. Honourable Members, we proceed with point seven: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. There is a report by a Commission "The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u125	Why don't we vote now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u126	Excuse me? I've stated that tomorrow we'll vote at 9:00, that's my right, and that's what I've decided. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. It's really your day, including me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Regional Development Act No 602-01-61, submitted by the Council of Ministers Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Prof. Dr. Arch. Veselina Troeva Executive Director of the National Centre for Territorial Development. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The Law proposes the functions of drafting the National Concept for the spatial development of the regional schemes for the spatial development of level 2 regions and the National Strategy for Regional Development to be entrusted with a law of a specialized unit under the control of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the purpose of more effective and competent support of the Minister's activities. The proposal to supplement the Regional Development Act provides that the specialized unit will now be the structural and functioning since 1960. "National Centre for Territorial Development" EAD. The Centre is registered as a trading company with 100% State participation in the capital in which the rights of the State are exercised by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The aim of the proposal is to optimize the planning processes of regional and spatial development by coordinating more effectively and using the better accumulated common base of information resources and capacity. The expected results of the implementation of the proposal are: improving the quality of strategic documents for regional and spatial development, given their development by a highly qualified team with proven professional experience, improving coordination and interconnections between regional and spatial development documents at national and regional level, achieving better territorial coordination of sectoral policies and improving the efficiency of public investment for development, creating conditions for the use of accumulated information by other ministries and departments, easier identification and prioritization of important projects for the development of the country and its regions, strengthening and developing expert planning capacity. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 8 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. It's the only report. I don't see anyone from the importers. I'm opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with art. 69 of our Rules set tomorrow at 9.00, at the beginning of the meeting to hold the vote on this bill. Moving on to the next eighth item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATICING OF THE CONSULTANT SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF AGENCY AND FOODS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT (with REGISTERATION INDEX RD 50-127/26 SEPTEMBER 2016) Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. There is no report from the Budget and Finance Committee. She has prepared a report on the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mrs. Karayancheva, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u129	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50 127/26 September 2016)), No 602-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 7 December 2016, discussing a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-127/26 September 2016).), No 602 02 40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. Assoc. Mr. Georgi Kostov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food, who presented the Bill. The draft Agreement was approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 February 2016, and the Minister of Agriculture and Food is authorised to hold the negotiations and sign it on condition of subsequent ratification. The aim of the Agreement is to provide the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with expert and technical assistance for the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable management of natural resources in the country through the development of analytical and practical capacity for the design and implementation of national forest inventories based on modern approaches and best international practices. The amount due is BGN 1 956 081 and the funding will be with the funds under the measure 20 "Technical assistance" from the RDP 2014-2020. The agreement has an indicative period of 16 months and can be terminated by each of the parties with 90-day written notice. Payment will take place on schedule after the appropriate approval of the results achieved. Consulting services will be provided in four stages. The first will include defining the format for carrying out the national forest inventory, preparing the relevant methodology, of an appropriate specialised software and software interface to interpret the data. The second phase will be related to the development of a training programme, the identification of teams that will carry out inventory and the actual training for field work with specialized software and the supervision of errors in interpretation of digital orthophotoplans. The third stage includes carrying out inventory in one selected region, with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food planning to be a South Central State enterprise. The final phase will be the preparation of an analytical report on the results of the inventory carried out in the selected region and will include recommendations for the holding of inventory in the rest of the country, in accordance with the requirements of the RDP 2014-2020. A policy note with proposals to include inventory results in the strategic planning of the forest sector will also be prepared. The results and conclusions will be published. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-12/26 September 2016), the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 15 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-12/26 September 2016 was held.), No 602-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. The other opinion is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. You are welcome to present the report for the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This Regulation on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-127/26.09.2016)), No 602-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. At its meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-127/26 September 2016).), No 602-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Georgi Kostov, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Spas Todorov, Head of Department of the Forest Sector Development Department. The bill was presented by Mr. Georgi Kostov, who pointed out that the draft agreement for providing advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was approved by Protocol Decision No 8 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, held on 24 February 2016, and the Minister of Agriculture and Food is authorised to hold the negotiations and sign it under the conditions of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. The Agreement aims at obtaining expert and technical assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Conservation of Ecosystems and Sustainable Management of the Natural Resources of the Republic of Bulgaria by improving the information on forests and forest areas, as well as supporting the implementation of forest measures under the Rural Development Programme (RDP 2014-2020).). It is envisaged that the consulting service will be provided for a period of 16 months by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the amount of remuneration being BGN 1 956 081 The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, without the opposition of the Bulgarian Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-12/26 September 2016), proposed to the National Assembly a bill for ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-12/26 September 2016.), No 602-02-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You've heard the opinions of both committees. You now have the opportunity to comment on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Are there any speeches? There aren't any. With this point, we will proceed in the same way tomorrow at the beginning of the meeting, the quoted bill will be put to the vote. We move on to submission of opinions on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2016. Please provide comments. Report from the Committee on Education and Science. Welcome, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October In accordance with At its regular meeting held on 7 December 2016, the Education and Science Committee discussed a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science: Mr. Diyan Stamatov Deputy Minister, Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General, Mr. Lyubomir Yosifov, Director of the Legal Department and Mrs. Desislava Kemalova. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Valchev. He pointed out that the Agreement signed on 22 August 2016 and proposed for ratification aims to provide the Ministry of Education and Science with advisory services on the need for technical assistance and guidance on the development of instruments for measuring school performance. Within 15 months, following an analysis of world experience and good practices in the development and implementation of school performance measuring systems, guidance will be provided to assess the information flow, a system of indicators for school performance will be proposed. The payment of the provided consulting services amounts to EUR 250 000, with the funds being provided under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion on the Bill included MPs Borislav Velikov and Milena Damyanova. The Members of the National Assembly have asked questions about the reasons for proposals in art. 2 of the draft text, which provides for the Agreement not to be published in the Official Journal. In relation to the questions asked Mr. Krasimir Valchev pointed out that the Agreement has the character of a trade contract, its clauses are not legal norms and bind only the parties to the contract and therefore in the light of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is proposed that the Agreement should not be promulgated. During the discussion the MPs from the Committee on Education and Science united around the opportunity to propose art. 2 of the Bill to be abolished with a view to transparency and already existing practices in other similar agreements. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held with the result of the resolution of the Council of Ministers on 14 votes, without the opposition of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Committee of Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. There is an opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova, if you'd like to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of The Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 602-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October In accordance with At its meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Kiryakov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Department of Preschool and School Education, and Mr. Svetoslav Spasov. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Kiryakov, who pointed out that it aims to provide the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development advisory services to the Ministry of Education and Science in relation to the provision of technical assistance and the introduction of a system of indicators for the presentation of schools containing a methodology for measuring and recommendations on data collection. The funding of the activities amounts to 250 000 euros, with the funds being provided under Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 2 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill for ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science, and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 602-02-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor for speeches on the Bill. I don't see anyone willing. I expected the Legal Commission to comment more on this issue because it took advantage of the Law on ratification itself gives the consent in art. 2 Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. This is really possible according to art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. This provision states that the authority which consents to bind the Republic of Bulgaria to an International Treaty may order the fact that the contract is not to be published. In the position that I am in, there is no way we can go into any more comments. That's all I pay attention to. Do you want a procedure, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a 30-minute break on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u138	How much half an hour do you want to take a break? Okay. By 13:00, I'm announcing a break, and then I'm gonna... [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] If you want, Mrs. Damyanova, there is no obstacle. Mr. Ivanov won't mind if you speak up, and then I'll give the rest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor for a very brief statement on the comments of the President in the Committee on Education and Science. This was also mentioned in the report. With all colleagues who are Commissioners, we have united to propose between first and second readings the article in question. 2 of the bill shall be abolished so that it corresponds to all other similar ones as the National Assembly accepts. We will take this opportunity to make a proposal between first and second readings, to vote on it on the days after the holidays, and then to propose ratification to consider a second vote, because we think it is appropriate, with a view to transparency of the agreements which the National Assembly adopts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova, for the clarification. If the Bill is adopted at first reading, you can renew this proposal of yours, even if it may be earlier, it depends already on the discussion of the Bill at second reading. You are making this statement at first reading. I'm now announcing the break that will last until 13.10. We will then proceed with the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u141	Dear Members of Parliament, the time of the declared holiday has ended. Before that, we concluded the discussion of the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Consulting Services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The vote will be tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting. We now proceed with the announcement. FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODEX OF TRADE CORRECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers of 15 November 2016. I request a representative of the committee responsible to present the opinion. This is the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Regulation on the legal basis for amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. At its regular meeting on 7 December 2016, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, and Mrs. Larissa Todorova, State Expert at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by Mr. Borisov. The main objective of the proposed amendment and supplement of the Code of Commercial Shipping according to importers is to introduce part of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 February 2014 on the implementation of the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector. It is about that part of the requirements of the Directive which departs from the laws currently in force in the country concerning labour and directly related relations between the crew members of a ship flying the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. A directive has been adopted as an instrument for implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector between the European Union for river navigation (EBU), the European Organisation of River Carriers (ESO) and the European Transport Workers Federation (ETF). This Agreement takes into account the specifics of the working and living conditions on board inland waterway vessels and establishes minimum standards regarding the organisation of working time and health and safety on board the ship of the so-called mobile workers. These minimum standards, in the part concerning: 1) the maximum working time for the adopted reference period of 12 months; 2) the average working time for one working week; 3) the maximum working day; 4) the minimum duration of the interday and interweekly rest; and 5) the distribution of the daily holidays, show some differences compared to those established in Bulgarian legislation. Furthermore, unlike the current national rules under which all persons operating on board as part of the ship's command are members of the ship's crew. The European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector also deals with another category of staff on board. This category of personnel is only characteristic of passenger ships sailing on inland waterways and includes valeters, cooks and other employees who are not directly involved in the management and operation of the ship as a craft. The amendments to the texts of the Code of Commercial Shipping are fully in line with the current editorials of acts of secondary law of the European Union and acts of international law to which Bulgaria is a country. Among them is the Regional Agreement on the Radiophone Service on inland waterways, three Directives 2009/18, 2009/16 and 2008/106 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the Annex to the International Convention on Training and Certification of Seamen 1978. The bill contains texts relating to acts of Union secondary law, the requirements of which are to be introduced into our legislation by regulations implementing the Code of Commercial Shipping or the implementation of which requires the introduction of measures at the legislative level. First of all, it is Directive 2014/90 of the European Parliament and of the Council on marine equipment, as well as Regulation 1257/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on ship recycling and amending Regulation 1013/2006. At the level of the law specific requirements regarding vocational education and training and higher education in maritime and river specialities concerning: the content of the curriculum and programs; the minimum number of hours in different subjects and modules; the material and technical basis for conducting the training, including practical training and special disciplines teachers, shall be introduced. In conclusion, the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping offers relief of the form of transactions for the transfer of ownership rights to a serially manufactured vessel for sport, tourism and entertainment by the manufacturer or its distributor of the first acquirer, which are carried out in the form of a written contract, accompanied by a declaration by the transferor concerning the fact that until the conclusion of the transaction the specific vessel has not been entered into a ship register. In the light of the above and on the basis of the debates held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed by 13 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u143	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. You have presented your Commission's opinions. The next opinion is from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova will present it to the MPs. Then prepare representatives of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 23 November 2016 examined and discussed the bill amending and supplementing commercial shipping. The meeting was attended by Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Maria Kaleva, Head of Department at the Department of Legal Administration in MTITC, Zhivko Petrov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, Pavlinka Kovacheva, Director of the Directorate of Legal Administration in the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Pavlinka Kovacheva in her part concerning the employment rights of crew members and service personnel. The main objective of the proposed amendment and supplement to the Code of Commercial Shipping is to introduce part of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 in the Bulgarian legislation, according to the draft Law. These are those requirements which deviate from the laws currently in force in the country concerning labour and directly related relations between the crew members of a ship flying under the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. In our legislation, the labour relations of the crew members of a ship flying a Bulgarian flag and the owner of the ship are regulated in art. 88b of the Code of Commercial Shipping and in the Ordinance on Labour and Directly Related Relations between the crew members of the vessel and the vessel owner. The general rules of the Labour Code, the Law on Health and Safety at Work and the regulations on their application are laid down for the issues not settled in these two acts. In 2013 and early 2014, changes were made in order to comply with the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 of the International Labour Organisation. As a result of these changes, the rules laid down in the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 on the organisation of the working time of seafarers working on board ships also apply to seafarers operating on ships flying a Bulgarian flag on the inland waterways of Europe. Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 takes into account the specific conditions of work and life on board inland waterway vessels. It establishes minimum standards with regard to the organisation of working time, health and safety conditions of work on board the ship of so-called mobile workers. These minimum standards are: the maximum working time for the adopted reference period of 12 months; the average working time for one working week; the maximum working day time; the minimum duration of the interday and interweekly rest; the distribution of day breaks. These standards show some differences compared to those laid down in Bulgarian legislation. In addition, unlike the current national rules under which all persons working on board as part of the ship's command are members of the crew, the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway sector also deals with another category of personnel on board. This category of personnel is only characteristic of passenger ships sailing on inland waterways and includes valeters, cooks and other employees who are not directly involved in the management and operation of the ship as a craft. The bill provides provisions on the status of the master and the members of the ship crew, a new organisation and supplementing the rules governing the labour and directly related relations between the crew members of a ship flying under the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. The establishment of a new member is also proposed to establish the legal content of the concept of service staff. An amendment is proposed to apply the current and current rules of employment and directly related relations between the crew members of the ship and the vessel owner who are involved, regardless of whether they are a member of the crew of a ship, a member of the crew of a inland waterway ship or a member of the service staff of a passenger ship on inland waterways. § 11 of the Draft Law proposes the creation of three new provisions in art. Art. 88c, Art. Art. 88 88e. The first of them lays down specific rules on the employment of crew members of marine ships. The second regulation lays down specific rules on the employment relations of crew members and service personnel of inland waterway vessels. The latter reproduces an existing text on the subsidiary applicability of the current Bulgarian labour law. The full implementation of the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the inland waterway sector should be carried out with the adoption of the necessary amendments and additions to the Ordinance on Labour and Directly Related Relations between the crew members of the ship and the vessel owner. After the presentation of the bill and the vote held with results: 14 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova, for the detailed report. We remain to hear the report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The word is Mrs. Panayotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. At its regular meeting on 7 December 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Valeri Borisov took part in the meeting of the Commission. Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mr. Zhivko Petrov Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The proposed draft aims to synchronise Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Council Directive 2014/112/EU of 19 December 2014 implementing the European Agreement on certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the internal water transport sector concluded by the European Union for river navigation (EBU), the European Organisation of River Carriers (ESO) and the European Transport Workers Federation (ETF). This should be achieved by amending some of the norms in the Code of Commercial Shipping (KTC) concerning the relations between the crew members of a ship flying the Bulgarian flag and the vessel owner. In this regard, standards concerning the organisation of working time and health and safety conditions of work on board the ship shall be introduced, taking into account the specifics of the so-called mobile workers. These standards include maximum working hours for a period of 12 months, average working hours for one working week, maximum working day time, distribution of the day-to-day and the week-to-week rest, as well as day-time breaks. The full transposition of Directive 2014/112/EU should be carried out with the adoption of amendments and additions to the Regulation on labour relations and directly related relations between the crew members of the ship and the owner provided for as Measure No 97 in the Action Plan for 2016 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. In addition, this Draft Law aims to fully harmonise the Code of Commercial Shipping with the current editorials of acts of secondary EU law and acts of international law to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. Among the numerous such acts is Directive 2009/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 laying down the basic principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and amending Council Directive 1999/35/EC and Directive 2002/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, currently introduced in the Bulgarian legislation by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications No 23 of 24 October 2011. In relation to its full transposition, the draft proposes the inclusion of points in the Additional Provisions of the Code, which define concepts such as "very heavy maritime demand', "sea demand' and "sea pollution'. Attention shall also be paid to distinguishing the rules and bodies related to the investigation of inland waterway accidents against those applicable to marine accidents and incidents. Last but not least, the draft Law also provides for synchronization with the provisions of Directive 2009/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on port State control initially transposed into the Bulgarian legislation by the Ordinance of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications No 12 of 16 December 2010. To this end, the Code introduces a requirement for carrying out a number of checks under the rules of state environmental control of shipping within one calendar year, while establishing clear procedural rules for carrying out the control of each parameter. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping, No 602-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u147	Thank you, you have heard the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds presented by the National Representative Daniela Panayotova. Obviously, there is no way for the importer to present the bill. Are there any speeches? I won't. This concludes his discussion and tomorrow in the order on the agenda, this bill will also be put to the vote. Now we move on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTS AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. There is an opinion from the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, there is no report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. We have the opportunity to hear the report which Mr. Valkov will present on behalf of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u148	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 602-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 7 December 2016, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature was discussed, No 602-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov Chairman of the Department of Communications and Mr. Veselin Bozhkov Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission. The main objective of the Bill is to bring national legislation governing the provision of electronic certification services by Regulation (EU) No During the presentation of the Bill, importers stressed that the new framework in the field of electronic transactions on the market in goods, services and capital in the European Union aims to create prerequisites for future development of digital infrastructure and to improve the quality of public services. As a result of the proposed changes, the structure of the law will cover the following main divisions: electronic statement and electronic document, electronic certification services, supervision, accreditation of conformity assessment bodies, protection of personal data and administrative criminal provisions. Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 910/2014, devices for the creation of qualified electronic signatures and devices for the creation of qualified electronic seals are subject to certification. The certification shall be carried out by persons designated by the Member States. The Bill states that the national authority will be the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" which will define the certification organisations. According to the amended structure of the law, the rules relating to the secrecy of the data and the questioning of statements in the use of certification services are systematically moved to Chapter 3 of the Electronic Services Service as art. 18a and 18b. With the proposed version of art. 19 by reference to the Regulation, the general concept of a certification-service-provider and the specific category of qualified certification-service-providers shall be introduced. The bill shall also specify the requirements to be met by certification-service-providers in carrying out their activities, including additional requirements for qualified certification-service-providers under art. 24 of Regulation (EU) No but not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the extended scope of the law, a change is proposed in the name and regulation of Section III, Chapter 3, and the provisions cover not only qualified electronic signature certificates but all qualified certificates under Regulation (EU) No Separate texts of the draft regulation regulate that the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) is the national supervisory authority exercising the powers under Regulation (EU) No It is also established that the CRC is empowered to obtain from certification service providers the necessary information to perform its functions as a supervisory authority, as well as to participate in joint investigations with supervisory authorities of other Member States. With the proposed new version of art. 32, para. 4 The CRC is also entrusted with the activity of establishing, maintaining and publishing the national trust lists of persons providing certification services and qualified certification services. The Bill provides that certification-service-providers are not subject to accreditation. In accordance with art. 21 of the Regulation, if a supplier decides to offer one or more qualified services, has to notify its intention to the supervisory authority, the CRC, and apply a conformity assessment report drawn up by a conformity assessment body. The Communications Regulation Commission will have to verify whether the supplier and the services provided by him comply with the requirements of the Regulation and, in a positive assessment of these circumstances,.. to grant him qualified status and to include him in the trusted lists within three months of the supplier's notification. Another text of the Bill provides that suppliers of qualified certification services are to be subject to periodic audits at least every 24 months, on their own account, by a conformity assessment body after entering the trusted lists. The proposed amendment of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature shall specify and complement administrative criminal provisions, providing for the imposition of property penalties and fines for infringements of specific provisions of Regulation No 910/2014. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to a number of laws that refer to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 12 votes to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 602-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-21.u149	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there first reading statements on the bill? I won't. Then we will leave his vote for tomorrow's plenary session. If you don't mind, I suggest we end this now, and tomorrow, according to the programme, there are three points left. First, after 9:00 will be the votes of the discussed drafts, and then we will continue with point 12: First vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law for Protection against Discrimination, importing the Council of Ministers. I close the discussions on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, importing the Council of Ministers, on 17 November 2016. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
