ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u1	We begin today's plenary session with item seven: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO STATEMENT THE DAY OF BULGARIAN-UNGERIAN FRIENDSHIP. Importers are Valeri Simeonov, Gemma Grozdanova, Ivan Petrov Ivanov, Milena Damyanova and Radoslav Stoychev on 1 September 2016. Report of the Foreign Policy Committee.. People's representative Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u2	♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision for the Announcement of the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship, No 654-02-76, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov, Gemma Grozdanova, Ivan Ivanov, Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and Radoslav Stoychev on 1 September 2016. At its regular meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Decision for the Announcement of the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day, No 654-02-76, tabled by the above-mentioned MPs. The reasons for the bill were presented by the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova. In 2016, the MP, representing the Bulgarian community in Hungary, Mr. Simeon Varga and a group of MPs from different groups in the Hungarian Parliament, launched the idea of announcing the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day. A draft decision by the Hungarian Parliament for announcing such a day was tabled by Mr Varga, and also by Mr. Vago Shebeshten, Chairman of the Friendship Group with Hungary, Kucak Laszlo, Vice-President of the Friendship Group and MPs members of the group: Andrere Balaj, Dunai Monica, Pancel Karoi, Duraros Alpar and Sabo Shandor, who are members of various political factions in parliament. To present this idea, Simeon Varga held meetings at the National Assembly with the President and representatives of the Committee on Foreign Policy and with the Friendship Group Bulgaria. A visit to Sofia was also made to the Friendship Group with Bulgaria in the Hungarian Parliament (6-8 July 2016.), where this topic was again discussed. The initiative is supported by the Hungarian Government, expressed several times by the Ambassador of Hungary to Bulgaria His Excellency Mr Andrash Klein and by the President of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Hungarian Parliament Mr Zolt Nemet in correspondence with the Foreign Policy Committee of the National Assembly. The day 19 October was chosen for a date. On this day the Bulgarian Orthodox Church celebrates St. John Rilski. On his visit to Hungary His Holiness, the Bulgarian Patriarch and Sofia Metropolitan Neofit also expressed his satisfaction with this initiative. It is known from the life of the saint that his holy relics were carried from Sofia in 1183, by the Hungarian King Bela III, after a military march against Byzantium, which at that time ruled Bulgaria. They were located for some time in the cathedral of the then Hungarian capital Esthergom, and then returned to Sredets today Sofia, in 1187. With respect and respect. On this occasion, Mr. Simeon Varga took the initiative to place a memorial sign for the residence of the relics of St. John Rilski to the cathedral in Esthergom. Thus the date of Friendship Day is chosen not a day of common victories, which would always be at the expense of other countries, but the day St. George's Day is celebrated. John Rilski. Announcing the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship enables a number of initiatives and events to be held annually to show the common moments of our history, which we have many in the past millennium, and also to discuss positions of the two countries on the current problems of modern times, to conduct cultural exchange, to implement youth initiatives, etc. This would also contribute to increasing interest and respect in Hungary towards the small but active Bulgarian community, which has been living traditionally in Hungary for centuries. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously with 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I offer your attention. "Project" DECISION Announcement of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, taking into account the initiative of Hungarian parliamentarians to determine the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship submitted to the Hungarian Parliament, supporting the development of Bulgarian-Hungarian parliamentary cooperation in bilateral relations and international organizations, expressing a desire for the development of the multi-century friendly relations between the Bulgarian and Hungarian people HAS DECIDED Announcing October 19th as Friendship Day between Bulgaria and Hungary. What are the reasons for this draft decision? In 2016, the MP, representing the Bulgarian community in Bulgaria, Mr. Simeon Varga and a group of MPs from different groups of the Hungarian Parliament, launched the idea of announcing the Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day. To present this idea Mr Varga held a meeting at the National Assembly with the President and the representative of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as with the Friendship Group Bulgaria. A visit to Sofia was made to the Friendship Group with Bulgaria in the Hungarian Parliament, where this topic was discussed with the Friendship Group Bulgaria in the Bulgarian National Assembly and with the Foreign Policy Committee. The initiative is supported by the Hungarian Government, expressed several times by the Ambassador of Hungary in Bulgaria Mr Andrash Klein and the President of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Hungarian Parliament Mr Zolt Nemet in correspondence with the Foreign Policy Committee of the National Assembly, as well as in personal meetings. For a date to mark this event, 19 October is available. On this day the Bulgarian Orthodox Church celebrates St. John Rilski. During the visit of the Friendship Group with Bulgaria in the Hungarian Parliament was held a meeting with His Excellency Adrianople Bishop Evlogius, abbot of the Rila Monastery, who declared his support for this initiative. During his visit to Hungary between 10 May and 12 May 2016, the Bulgarian Patriarch and Sofia Metropolitan Neofit also expressed his satisfaction with this initiative. It is known from the life of the saint that his holy relics were taken away from Sofia in 1183 by the Hungarian King Bela III after a military march against Byzantium, which at that time ruled Bulgaria. They were four years old in the then Hungarian capital of Esthergom and in 1187 with great respect and respect the relics of St. John Rilski were returned to Bulgaria. A few words about what caused this strange movement of relics historically and geographically. [[Noise and lines.]] Hungarian King Bella III in the capture of Sredets, present Sofia, learns about the wonders performed by the relics of St. Sredets. John Rilski, who are currently located in the Sofia Orthodox Church. [[Noise and lines.]] He decides to take the relics with him and take them to Hungary where these relics perform a series of miracles. The then Catholic Archbishop... If it's not interesting, I can finish up and get out and end this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u5	I ask for order in this House and more respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u6	Unrespectable colleagues who are not paying attention to historical facts just miss the chance to learn something extremely interesting from Bulgarian and Hungarian history. I repeat about those who didn't listen: the relics of St. John's. John Rilski was transferred to the Hungarian capital of Esthergom because of the fame they had carried out miracles and healing activities. In Esthergom, however, the Catholic Archbishop expressed disrespect for these relics by asking the rhetorical question: "Who is this Ivan Rilski? I've never heard such a saint among the saints. For several years, the Catholic Archbishop is mute, and only when he knows what the reason for his dumbness is does he go to the relics, as described in the chronicles, pours tears on them and begs for forgiveness, and suddenly he speaks. At this point, Hungarian King Bella III understands that he has done something that is bordering on sacrilege, taking the relics of St. John's. John Rilski in Hungary, and with a solemn procession and ceremony, sends them back to Sofia, where it is also solemnly welcomed and the relics are placed in the place where they were before. This is a true story, described in the chronicles, and it is the embodiment of Christianity, of man-lovingness and of Christian mutual assistance. Are you listening, Mr. Hafuzov, careful? Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]] On this occasion Mr. Simeon Varga took the initiative to place a memorial sign for the residence of the relics of St. John Rilski to the cathedral in Esthergom. It is little known in our country that the very settlement of the Magyar tribes in Pannonia in the X century, at that time part of the First Bulgarian Kingdom, became a mutually beneficial treaty concluded between the Hungarian chief Arpad and the Bulgarian king Simeon the Great. This episode of history is studied in Hungarian schools, but not in Bulgarian textbooks. I would also like to recall another historical episode of the interaction, of the mutual assistance between the Hungarian and Bulgarian people, and this is the famous battle of the peoples in 1444 in Varna, where the Hungarian army led by Vladislav Varnenchik and Hungarian leader Yan Hunyadi won the battle against the Turkish army. At the last moment, Vladislav Varnenchik was killed, which completely turned the outcome of the battle. Nevertheless, this is yet another attempt at Christian solidarity. Announcing the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship enables a number of initiatives and events to be held annually to show the common moments of our history, which we have many in the past millennium, and also to discuss positions of the two countries on the current problems of modern times in order to conduct and conduct cultural exchange in order to implement a number of political, economic, youth and any other initiatives. This would also contribute to increasing interest and respect in Hungary towards the small but active Bulgarian community on the territory of Hungary, which has lived there for many years. Thank you for your attention. I hope you're happy with the information I gave you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not repeat all the historical facts by which we, as importers, justify the proposal we are making to you today and the Draft Decision, but I must admit that for me as a Hungarian today is of particular importance because, as we all know, the mutual historical, linguistic and cultural relations between Bulgarians and Hungarians start from the earliest history of the two peoples. The interest in Hungary in Hungary also dates back centuries. In the 20th century a number of Bulgarian prominent scientists, artists, specialists from different fields created contributions to the field of historiography, ethnography, literature, economics. Bulgarian Hungarianism leaves traces in cinema, in dramaturgy, in fine art, in medicine even, but it is a fact that for the first time will be voted, hopefully, and announced Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. Yes, it is a fact that this day is justified with the commons of the two peoples, but this day undoubtedly determines the future, determines the direction in which the Bulgarian-Hungarian relations will develop from here on out. Bulgaria and Hungary are members of a number of international organisations, where they quite naturally cooperate successfully, developing their friendly relations on a mutually beneficial basis. In a united Europe we also share a common present, share a common future with the other European peoples, but together we could solve problems, as we saw yesterday, which are on the agenda we are facing, thereby contributing at all to European unity, to European cooperation. The current Project for a solution to which I am co-operating is an example of a successful initiative between the friendship groups in the Hungarian Parliament and the Bulgarian National Assembly respectively. In Hungary today we have a small one, but I have to share with you that this is a very influential Bulgarian community. We all know about Bulgarian gardeners, who were not only extremely well received by the Hungarian side many years ago by the Hungarian people, but they were given the opportunity, provided an environment for the development of agricultural activity, thus quite naturally won the respect and respect of the Hungarians accordingly. Mr. Simeon Varga is precisely the representative of this small but influential Bulgarian community in the Bulgarian Parliament and with this initiative he raises the authority of the Bulgarian community abroad, at all of the Bulgarians who live in Hungary. It is not surprising that Mr Varga's proposal was supported by the abbot of the Rila Monastery Adrianopol Bishop Evlogius, and was also supported by the Bulgarian Patriarch Neofit on 10 May this year, when he was visiting the Bulgarian Church in Budapest on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Bulgarian church municipality there. I hope that we will all unanimously support our proposal that we have made with our fellow Members. He was unanimously supported in the Foreign Commission. It is unanimously supported because such a draft decision has been tabled in the Hungarian Parliament, and is supported there by all political forces without exception. I believe that this would really contribute immensely to the acquaintance between the two friendly peoples and to the development of better relations between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Once again, let me introduce you to the Project Decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? Announcement of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, taking into account the initiative of Hungarian parliamentarians to determine the Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship introduced to the Hungarian Parliament, supporting the development of Bulgarian-Hungarian parliamentary cooperation in bilateral relations and international organizations, expressing a desire to develop the multi-century friendly relations between the Bulgarian and Hungarian people HAS DECIDED Announcing October 19th as Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day. Please vote, honourable Members. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. October 19th is declared a Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship. [[Applause.]] We continue with the next item on our agenda, it is actually a continuation of yesterday: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INSTITUTE FON CARMAN FOR THE DINAMICS OF THE FLUIDS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. Yesterday's reports were presented, and now I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u10	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. The voting procedure shall be the first vote. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the bill be subject to a second vote. The bill is for ratification of an international treaty, which according to art. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u12	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the President of the Committee on Education and Science Mrs Damyanova for a second vote on the bill. They voted 114 MPs: 109, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u13	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics (IFC) A single member. Ratiated a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics (IFK), signed in Sofia and Brussels on 20 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u14	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We're closing the debate. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Von Karman Institute on Fluid Dynamics (IFC), signed in Sofia and Brussels on 20 April 2016. Voting regime, honourable Members. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The bill was passed in a second vote. Thanks, guys. We move on to the next point of the weekly programme, namely: LAW FOR THE RATEFICIAL AGENCATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRONCOPHONIA AND THE UNIVERSITY AGENCEDENCE OF FRANCE ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH SCHOOL OF FRONCOPHONIA AND THE UNIVERSITY OF THE FRANCOGENATION OF FRANCOPHONES AND THE UNIVERSITY OF FRANCOPHONES ON THE WORK OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRANCOPHONIA AND THE UNIVERSITE AGENATION OF FRANCOPHONES ON THE WORK OF THE HIGH STAND OF THE FRANCOPHONIA FOR ADMINATION AND MANAGEMENT IN SOFIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Who's gonna read it? [[Noise and lines.]] Go ahead, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Parliament, the procedure is to remove this item from the agenda with the following reasons. It is a matter of fact that through a ratification contract, a new higher education institution is being established. I pay attention, please take a careful look at the text in which it is evident that this institution will be able to give Master's Degrees, except for Bachelor's Programs, and this is also about continuing training, which means PhDs. It's written in the motive that he's going to give out his doctorate. And this happens provided that in higher education institutions there is a very large deficit of students in the universities of Bulgaria. Of course, it is done in a surrounded way by a ratification contract between Bulgaria and the Organisation of Francophony. The criteria and requirements of the Higher Education Act are not met, there is no accreditation. A contract entered into 15 years ago for the establishment of a Language Learning Centre transforms this centre into a higher education institution. I ask you to drop this point, to hold a serious consultation with the Council of Rectors and Higher Schools in Bulgaria, to leave the field of foreign affairs because the foreign ministry is leading. I put some of these questions in the Legal Committee, didn't get any answers. More attention to be paid by the Ministry of Education and Science and then to assess whether with ratification contracts we can create new universities and universities in Bulgaria. These arguments are quite rational. If this point is dropped, at least for at least ten days, one week a more serious consultation should be carried out. Otherwise, we'll get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. Mr. Mikov's proposal to drop the item on today's agenda. Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 105 MPs: 32, Against 19, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u17	Here you go, Professor. Stanilov supposed vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u18	Mr. Chairman, if you please, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u19	You said negative vote. Re-vote please, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u20	Dear colleagues, I call on you not to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and its legislation. We can't, as they say, go through the back door and find a new high school, whoever's mad at us. Please respect the Constitution. The meaning of the Constitution is violated. There is a general regime for the opening of higher education institutions and it cannot be replaced, cannot be replaced according to the Constitution. And the law says clearly who and how opens a higher education institution in Bulgaria. That is why we should not even consult the Rectors' Council, but should, in principle, deal with it, discuss it in the Commission, and not in one committee, but at all. We're breaking the Constitution right now. That can't happen! Can you imagine if this went to the Constitutional Court, what kind of scandal would happen? Please! Revoting, vote for the motion to postpone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u21	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Revoting the motion to reject t. 6 "Project for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u22	For dropping out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u23	Re-vote to postpone, to reject from today's agenda. They voted 107 MPs: 45 against 14, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Zaharieva, to present the report to the Committee on Education and Science on First Voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before the report, I will ask for a procedure for admission in the plenary of the gentlemen Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Svetoslav Stankov. Mr. Ivan Dimov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u25	Voting regime for admission to the hall of those persons. Vote 100 MPs: 89 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the designated persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u26	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activity of the Higher School of the Francophonie for Administration and Management (VUFAU) in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie and the University Agency of the Francophonie on the activity of the Higher School of the Ministry of Administration and Management in Sofia, No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016. At its regular meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activity of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia, No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016. The meeting was attended by Raiko Raychev, Director General of Global Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Alexander Savov, Ambassador with special awards for Francophonia, Maria Furtunova, Director of the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Science, Maria Nikulescu, Director of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management and Desislava Tosheva, Deputy Director of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management. The bill was presented by representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Rayko Raychev and Mr. Alexander Savov. Support also expressed the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science Mrs. Maria Furtunova. The adoption of the Law on ratification of the Agreement will create the legal basis for the functioning of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management, taking into account the change of name, status and structure of training programmes. The Agreement repealed and replaced the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie, signed on 28 August 2002. The Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management is the successor of the Francophone Institute for Administration and Management. This Agreement defines it as an institution for higher education and research activities of the University Agency of Francophonia with the status of specialized university with its headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria. The University of Francophonia for Administration and Management aims to train in French senior staff for the state administration and non-governmental organizations, to support study and research-development projects. By virtue of this Agreement, the exemption of the Higher School of Fraphonie for Administration and Management from value added tax on study materials, consumables and equipment shall be suspended. The Bulgarian country provides the higher school with the necessary premises for its good functioning. In addition to the Master's programmes, an educational qualification degree is introduced. Ratification of the Agreement will contribute to strengthening the capacity of the Bulgarian administration and to creating opportunities for the employment of students in companies of Francophone countries in Bulgaria. The Agreement with the Annex to it shall be ratified by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was taken with a result for the "9 votes', without the opposition and abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on ratification of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies and the University Agency of Francophonies on the activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia and of an Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia, No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u28	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activity of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management (VUFAU) in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activity of the Higher School of Administration and Management (VUFAU) in Sofia, No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016 At a meeting held on 31 August 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activity of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management (VUFAU) in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activity of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management (VUFAU) in Sofia, signed on 25 May 2016 in Sofia. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov. The adoption of the Law on the ratification of this Agreement and the annex thereto establishes the legal basis for the functioning of the Higher School, taking into account the change of the name, status and structure of the training programmes. The University of Francophonia for Administration and Management is a successor of the Francophone Institute for Administration and Management. The Agreement repealed and replaced the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie on the functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management, signed in Sofia on 28 August 2002. This Agreement defines the Higher School as an institution for higher education and research activities of the University Agency of Francophonia with the status of specialized university with its headquarters in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian country provides for free the necessary premises for its good functioning and for the needs of the training and research work in the building on "Varna" Str. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man The conditions for making the premises available shall be the subject of the Annex to the Agreement. Under this Agreement, the exemption of VFU from value added tax on study materials, supplies and equipment shall be suspended. VUFAU pays a household waste fee. The provisions of the Agreement and the Annex thereto shall be in accordance with the Constitution, the Bulgarian legislation, the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and the law of the European Union and shall not require measures of a legislative nature with a view to their application. The Agreement with the Annex to it shall be ratified by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes in respect of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activity of the Higher School of Administration and Management in Sofia and of the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activity of the Higher School of Administration and Management in Sofia, No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016. At its meeting on 31 August 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Alexander Savov The bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Savov. He pointed out that the ratification of the Draft Law establishes the legal basis for the functioning of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management, taking into account the change of name, status and structure of training programs. The university is a successor of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management, which has been operating since 1995 and has set itself as its main goal to train in French senior staff for the state administration and non-governmental organizations to contribute to the development of Francophony. An educational-qualification degree is introduced - Bachelor's degree along with the Master's degree programmes, and the Higher School can organize further training programmes. It is intended to conclude the Agreement for an indefinite period by amending or terminating it by mutual agreement of the Contracting Parties. Its ratification will contribute to strengthening the capacity of the Bulgarian administration and to creating opportunities for the employment of students in companies of Francophone countries in the Republic of Bulgaria. Members of the National Assembly Emil Dimitrov, Mikhail Mikov, Cetin Kazak and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. During the discussion the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Mihail Mikov raised a question as to whether this Agreement does not circumvent the order for accreditation of higher schools. Mr. Chetin Kazak noted that the Agreement is an international treaty on the basis of which sui generis was founded the school and the treaty is ratified by the National Assembly. Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed concern about whether the Law on Higher Education has an exclusion clause concerning the implementation of the rules on international treaties. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Opinions from the importer? Are there any willing to take the floor from the two deputy ministers? No. Debate mode. First to speak has expressed a desire by the people representative Mihail Mikov. Dear Mr. Mikov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honourable representatives of the importer! In this situation, we need to get into a discussion on the ground. I am convinced that such a legal regime does not exist even in Uagadugu where the current French ambassador to Sofia went. There is an established regime in the Law, which provides that a higher school is created in the fulfilment of certain legal criteria. I can read them to you from the laws, but it doesn't make sense. There is also a law that provides for how accreditation is carried out, there is also a Law on Higher Education, where the texts are explicit. I will ask the importers to explain what requires the establishment of a higher school outside the order prescribed by law, which is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic? I think in the procedure you did, Professor. Stanilov, he made it clear that the issue is also unconstitutional. After all, a school centre established on the basis of an Agreement ratified by the National Assembly in 2002 was transformed into a higher school. Maybe in a few years, it'll be a university. Something that's ridiculous, and at least I didn't hear any arguments from the importers about what it was. And this happens when Bulgarian universities are in an extremely difficult state, when most of them cannot pay their debts when they all pay both VAT and garbage tax, we release this university from these taxes. What's that supposed to mean? So I ask and make a procedural proposal to end the discussion so far, to gather more information on what requires such an extraordinary method for setting up a university in Bulgaria. I will specifically ask the representatives of the Ministry of Education to brief us on how they view this. We know that this year most of the majors have not been completed. Notice, in the text it is said that besides Bachelors and Masters there will also be continued training, which means giving PhDs from this university. This is absurd without going through the standard accreditation procedure. These are all questions that raise the big question: who is interested and who wants to create such an emergency regime? Why is that necessary? Have any opinions been taken by representatives of the academic community? Is the accreditation agency consulted or is in fact a business form being created for all the value added tax benefits, a waste charge that puts other higher education institutions at a disadvantage. What requires this, and why is this happening? So once again, Mr President, I ask that you put the matter of delaying the discussion to a vote, so that a large part of the Members of the National Assembly can be quite informed when it comes to voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u33	A line to Mr. Mikov's statement? I won't. I see there's a desire from the importer. He has the word Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs" for an answer to Mr. Mikov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the questions raised by Mr. Mikov, I would like to point out that in terms of accreditation it is actually envisaged that the university will not issue Bulgarian diplomas. Diplomas for the training taking place there will be issued by two French and one Belgian universities which are accredited under the legislation of the countries concerned and contain all the props required by the laws of France and Belgium. If, at the next stage, the university wants to issue Bulgarian diplomas, then it will, of course, go through the accreditation procedure as it is in our country. With regard to the other issue raised about taxation, it is likely that there is some confusion. In fact, under the Agreement, the higher school will pay both garbage and VAT, unlike the situation so far, as it has been exempted from VAT and garbage tax. I would just like to say that this university has been functioning for years, although with another status in the country. It's established, attracts a lot of foreign students. The funding for it was fully provided by the organisation of the Francophony and amounted to more than 600 thousand. EUR per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? [[National Representative Mihail Mikov wants the floor.]] In the manner of conduct I can give you the floor only because your motion to postpone was voted and the will of the Members of the National Assembly is the point of view. Therefore, I can give you the floor in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's just the way it is. I suggested that the item be removed from the agenda, and this was the only possible proposal before the discussion took place. Now that the point is being looked at, I have made a motion to postpone the debate. The third option I have procedurally is to postpone the vote. But these two options are only when the second and third options are moved on to consideration. My first proposal was to drop the item on the agenda, so I ask you now to put the debate to a vote and move on. That's the way it is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u37	Under art. 69 to postpone the vote, I cannot do it from the first vote. What you have proposed to postpone, I have already put it to the vote. And it seems to me that your motion to drop out has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u38	It's the last one. Now I'm doing something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u39	Honourable Members, in order not to create tension in this House, the proposal is to put an end to the discussions on the point at hand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u40	Not to stop, but to postpone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u41	They shall cease, and the Conference of Presidents will decide when they will be postponed. They're shutting down. It's just that you're offering not to postpone, but to end today. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u42	To postpone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u43	What difference does it make to postpone or end today?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u44	I can explain the difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u45	Yes, come in, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The difference is too substantial. In one case, the debate may continue another day upon delay. In the case of termination, they have ended and then the next procedure is a vote. That's the difference between one and the other. I am doing a procedure to postpone the debates so that they can continue on another day. If someone does it for termination, it's another procedure, then they can't continue any longer and the next procedure is voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I'll ask for peace in the hall. We are voting on the proposal to postpone the debate from today to the next day scheduled by the Conference of Presidents. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 108 MPs: 34 against 32, abstention 42. The motion to postpone the debate has not been accepted. Anybody else want to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activities of the Higher School of Administration and Management in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the activities of the Higher School of Administration and Management in Sofia No 602-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2016. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 3, abstention 4. Ratification accepted at first reading. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the bill be voted at second reading in the same sitting, as no amendments or additions have been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u49	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, you have seen that there are sufficient arguments to consider carefully this commitment that the National Assembly is undertaking. The violation of the Law is undoubtedly unconstitutional It doesn't matter that diplomas will be foreign. It should be, like the Bulgarian universities, when they go to another country and have to issue diplomas, to fall into the respective legal criteria of the host country, because in the speech of the Deputy Minister there was another recognition that diplomas from foreign universities will be issued. True, that not from the University of Wagadougou, but from Leeuven, but that does not change things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u51	How can I not change them?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u52	It doesn't change them in any way. Bulgarian universities cannot issue diplomas of medicine in Switzerland or in Belgium they are limited in this respect. And Bulgaria allows, albeit European universities, without having passed the accreditation procedure, to issue diplomas and to train in Bulgaria. This is another blow to Bulgarian higher education. The most interesting thing is that this is absolutely unconstitutional and illegal. Please, Mr. President, in the vote, and especially to the Members of the National Assembly, let us give the normal time limit for second reading in order to carefully examine these issues. The haste shows only one thing to quickly pass this ratification procedure, to arrange for someone to become the head of the Board, to take back the properties that the state will grant them free of charge, notice, and to close this case. But he, I assure you, will not be over soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I put to the vote Mrs. Zaharieva's proposal to move to second reading of the ratification bill. They voted 96 MPs: 11 against 21, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. That is, the second reading is postponed for the next sitting. I'm sorry, Professor. Dimov, you wanted to, but you couldn't say your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u54	Welcome to a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. The word has the people's representative Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION on behalf of the Patriotic Front The first school day of September 15th is an occasion for many politicians to visit schoolyards, to speak welcoming words, to show optimism that our society as a whole needs. However, we believe that it is also appropriate to talk about the problems that Bulgarian education is experiencing with particular force today, especially about the problems related to its administration, which, if it does not correct its mistakes, can lead to lasting negative results. The fact that with the development of state educational standards, study plans and programs, the Ministry of Education and Science has admitted the signing of the Law on pre-school and school education. In certain cases, we find a discrepancy with the legislative provisions, and for us Bulgarian patriots, it is the most unacceptable fact that the patriotic education in the Bulgarian school is ignored. This is evident from the website of the Ministry of Education, where a number of state-education standards are announced. Apparently, officials at the Ministry have no relation to national-patriotic upbringing and violate the Preschool and School Education Act. One of the main objectives of education provided for in the Law is the preservation and validation of the Bulgarian national identity. In addition, in art. 76, para. 5 is noted that in the process of school education students can also be studied in the field of global, civil, health and further education, which form national self-esteem, patriotic spirit and patriotic patriotism in children and students by expanding and supplementing the content that is integrated in other subjects. This requirement corresponds directly to the Government's Program for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Priority 88 it is written that education in Bulgaria aims, I quote: the formation of national self-esteem, a patriotic spirit among children and youth. So far, this requirement is mentioned only in the draft regulation on civil, health, environmental and intercultural education. Quoting: The civic, health, environmental and intercultural education at the class, except through training to acquire competences, is carried out through activities, activities and projects on thematic areas related, first, to the patriotic education and building of national self-esteem. The patriotic upbringing in class are dedicated for four hours a year! The Ministry also relies on the ritualization of upbringing related to the knowledge of the flag, the anthem and the history of the school. On the other hand, it is strongly focused on intercultural dialogue, tolerance to the different, knowledge of its religious, ethnic and cultural characteristics, joint activities in a multicultural environment. That is, the policy of multiculturalism is once again being promoted, which has already been implemented after bringing such severe problems to Europe. At the same time, nowhere is the principle of unity of the Bulgarian nation that everyone should feel first Bulgarians by nationality before they define themselves by ethnic or religious principle. The very name of the standard, as can be seen, does not show patriotic education as an equal component with others, but can only be achieved as an expected result of the activity in the other directions, especially civil education. For a school subject, Rodoloving is not allowed to speak at all. The most significant changes in the curriculum affected the subject of history and civilization. In practice, teaching Bulgarian history in primary education is reduced to part of the common history and in no class is it studied independently from the establishment of the Bulgarian state to our present day! Thus, graduates of primary education will not receive basic knowledge of native history, and the formation of a sense of patriotism and national pride is difficult to achieve. The situation in the study of Bulgarian literature is similar. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] It is enough to give the example that no work of the great Bulgarian writer and patriot Nikolay Haytov was studied in the Bulgarian school, who was born on today 97 years ago. Here the question arises: how will the requirements of the Preschool and School Education Act be fulfilled in the educational process? Let's mention just passing through the many other problems in the field of education in the last few months the delay of the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth", the scandals with the announcement of additional scholarships for the priority majors in higher schools, the definition of protected specialties, the unique public procurement for advertising materials of the Ministry, unprinted textbooks and others. At the beginning of the year from the Patriotic Front, we warned that the change of the then Minister Tanev is pointless if the policy of the Ministry does not change if professionalism does not prevail and the huge responsibility that education has for the future development of the Bulgarian nation is not realized. They made grand promises at the time. Today, we do not notice the fulfillment of any of them. We declare our principled position openly from the National Assembly's stand, not in order to seek confrontation, but because of our desire to resolve the problems quickly and adequately. We are open to dialogue and are ready to contribute to overcoming the multiannual momentum, which leads to nothing good, neither in education nor in our society, but there are objectives that cannot be replaced or forgotten. They are included in the Programme, with which the Patriotic Front appeared in the elections and won the support of its voters, are also set in the Program for Government Governance. Patriotic upbringing is such an objective and there can be no compromise with it! We expect its adequate introduction into the learning process because this is what the Law requires. On this festive day it is necessary to give our appreciation above all to the Bulgarian teachers who, despite the severity of the transition, keep the traditions of the home school. Good luck, dear teachers! Good luck, dear students! [[Applause from FI only.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u56	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. There's no other affidavits so far. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-ROADING. The bill was introduced in the Law of the People's Republic of Bulgaria under No 654-01-89 and was submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 12 July 2016 and adopted at the first vote on 21 July 2016. With the report, the People's Representative Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask first for a procedure for admission to the hall of Mr. Feyzi Bekir Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Milena Krastanova Deputy Executive Director of the NRA and Mrs. Rosen Ivanov Director at the Department of Tax Policy, NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u58	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 68 MPs: 66 against 1, abstention 1. Please invite the faces to the hall. The persons you have designated are already in the Chamber. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market is based on an assessment of the compatibility of the measure with the internal market and on the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. The Law of Corporate Income Tax Law was amended and supplemented by the Law of Corporate Income Tax. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u60	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is fully supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u61	According to § 1 "Proposition of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10, 2 after the words "vehicle funds" shall be commaed and the text.................................................................................................. 215a, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 6 in a sentence first, the words "art." 204, p. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, the following definitions shall apply: 204, para. 1, t. The second sentence is amended as follows:.The costs related to the operation of vehicles used for both business and personal use shall be recognized for tax purposes and where no travel sheet or similar document has been issued when determining the tax base for the taxation of expenditure under art. 204, para. 1, t. The provisions of Article 4 shall be applied. 215a, para. 2, p. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There aren't any people who want to make a statement. I put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: 14 against 3, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 1. I shall put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 62, against 1, abstention 7. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u63	By § 2, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u64	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 fully supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u65	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev in § 3, item 3. 2 concerning Art. 204, p. 4 after the words "assets and/or personnel', a comma shall be placed and added where the carrying amount of the asset exceeds 20 thousand when it is acquired. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 204 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 3 is repealed; (b) To be created t. 4. "4." expenditure in kind related to own, employed and/or self-employed assets provided for personal use and/or personnel use by workers, employees and persons employed under management and control contracts (hired persons) as well as by persons exercising personal labour within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 26, point (d) of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. 2. The creation of para. 2: The amount to be reported in this row shall be the amount to be reported in column 010 of the CR SA template. 1, t. 1, 2 and 4 shall not result in a reduction in the accounting financial result for the year of their accounting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u66	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 18, against 7, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 supported in principle by the Commission and edited by it in accordance with its report. Vote 81 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u67	Under Paragraph 4, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 207 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 204, p. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, the 2. In para. 2 after the words. 204 "Aal" is added. 1.................................................................................. 3. The creation of para. 3: The tax liability for the tax referred to in Article 3 (3) shall be subject to the following conditions: 204, para. 1, t. 4 shall be all employers or contracting entities under management and control contracts or personal work relationships within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 26, point (d) of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u68	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4 supported in principle by the Commission and edited by it in accordance with its report. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u69	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev in § 5, art. 215a, para. 2, p. 2 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssss,ssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 5 and shall propose the following version in accordance with the requirements of art. 50 of Decree No 883 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts for § 5 and a new § 6: .................................................................................. Art. 215 is canceled. § 6. In Chapter Twenty-ninth, art. is created. 215a: "Tax basis for in-kind expenditure tax Art. 215a (1) The tax base for determining the tax on expenditure under art. 204, para. 1, t. 4 is the amount of expenditure in kind related to own, employed and/or provided for use, provided for personal use and/or related to the use of personnel, for the calendar year. (2) When determining the tax base under para. 1 for in-kind costs relating to vehicles, costs relate to personal use, with the total amount of all costs relating to the vehicle multiplied by: 1. by the ratio: (a) between the miles travelled for private use and the total kilometres travelled from the vehicle concerned; or (b) between the hours of personal use of the vehicle and the total hours of use of the vehicle; or Two times fifty percent. (3) When determining the tax base under para. 1 for expenditure in kind relating to real estate where they cannot be distributed by measurement, the costs relate to personal use, with the total amount of all expenditure relating to real estate being multiplied by the ratio: (a) between the area used for personal use and the total area of the real estate concerned; or (b) between the hours of personal use of the property concerned and the total hours of use of the real estate. (4) When determining the tax base under para. 1 for expenditure in kind related to assets other than those referred to in para. 2 and 3, the tax base shall be 20 per cent of the total cost of all the costs associated with the asset concerned, unless the taxable person justifies a documentary other amount on a base.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor to speak. There are no speakers. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev. Their proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 16 against 3, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 5, edited by the Commission in accordance with the requirements of art. 50 of Decree 883 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts for § 5 and a new § 6. We are voting on paragraphs 5 and 6 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 11. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u72	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 7 in its report. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u73	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u74	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which in the Commission report shall become § 8, following its support. We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u75	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u76	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9 in the Commission's report. We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u77	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u78	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10 of the Commission report after being supported by the same. We are voting § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u79	Paragraph 10 - Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 39 is repealed. 2. A t is created. 83: I'm sorry, I'm In-kind expenditure for the purposes of art. 204, para. 1, t. 4 is the part corresponding to the personal use of assets and/or staff, of the accounting expenditure not falling under art. 204, para. 1, t. 1-2 and related to own, employed or provided assets and/or personnel used for both business and personal use. Where assets are tax amortizable assets, account shall be taken of tax amortizations instead of accounting expenses. No costs in kind for the purposes of art. 204, para. 1, t. 4 expenses incurred for the benefit of natural persons representing an acquired income within the meaning of art. 11, para. 3 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. There are no costs in kind and the costs associated with the use of own, leased or provided assets provided for personal use and/or related to the use of personnel where remuneration is due to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, supported in principle by the Commission, edited by the same, becoming § 11 in its report. We are voting § 11 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 77, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u81	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In the other texts of the Law after the words. 204 "Aal" is added. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 together with its corresponding content, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 80 MPs: 71, none, abstention 9. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u83	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u84	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u85	According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13 and shall propose the following wording: ...... 13............................ 13. (1) The taxable persons shall declare their choice under art. 24, para. 3 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals for 2016 in the Annual Tax Declaration for 2016 (2) A taxable person who, until the date of promulgation of this law has applied the order of taxation of expenditure in kind as non-cash income of natural persons under the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons may choose by declaring by his annual tax return lodged for 2016: 1. continue to apply this order until the end of 2016, or 2. to apply art. 204, para. 1, t. 4 by the end of 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u86	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13 after being edited by the Commission on its report. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 7. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u87	There is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The data referred to in art. 239, para. Art. 3 and Art. 246, para. 3 shall be declared in the first declaration for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u88	Do you have any comments on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 14? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with its respective content, according to the report on the same. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u89	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... (1) Documentary justification of the costs relating to the operation of vehicles, where they are carried out by a management activity carried out from 1 January 2016 until the date of the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal of the European Union, is also available where they are documented only by a fiscal receipt from a fiscal device or by a cash note from an integrated automated system for the management of commercial activity and if no travel list has been issued. (2) When determining the tax base for the tax under art. 204, para. 1, t. 4 for 2016 for expenditure in kind relating to vehicles, the costs relate to personal use such as the total amount of all costs relating to the vehicle are multiplied by 50 per cent when, until the promulgation of this law in the Official Journal, the vehicle has also been used for the activity and the costs of this activity are documented only by a fiscal receipt from a fiscal device or by a receipt from an integrated automated commercial management system, and/or no travel sheet has been issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u90	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15, together with its corresponding content, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 6. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u91	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 16, following the words "Art." 204 "Aal" is added. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u92	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 16, after the words "art." 204 "Aal" is added. 1.................................................................................. Vote 73 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 4. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u93	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the creation of new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 17 and § 18: Seventeen. The Customs Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 2, p. 15 after the word "supposed points', the Republican road network shall be added to the border area. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 3a the words "the Minister of Finance" are replaced by "the Director of the Customs Agency." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 and para. 3 in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by the Director of the Customs Agency; (b) in para. 4 and para. 8 the words "The Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by the Director of the Customs Agency; (c) in para. 10 and para. 12 words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Director of Customs."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 17 with its respective content, according to the Report. We are voting § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 4. Paragraph 17 of the Commission Report has been adopted. Paragraph 18 "You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. .............................................................................. In the Law on Roads (promise, SG...) in art. 10e is created para. 3: In the event that the checks related to the passport visa regime are carried out in the territory of a neighbouring country, the Customs Agency shall carry out its duties under para. 1 and 2 at locations of the Republican road network in the border area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u96	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to create § 18 with the corresponding content, as just presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the National Representative Diana Yordanova. We are voting § 18 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 2. Paragraph 18 of the Commission Report has been adopted. The text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u97	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 19 and shall propose the following wording: "Seriously, I'm The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2016, with the exception of: 1. Paragraph 13, para. 2, p. 2 which shall enter into force from the 1st of the month following the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal. 2. Paragraphs 2 § 8, § 9, § 10, § 17 and § 18, which shall enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Just one correction at the first point: "Paragraph 13, which enters into force..................................................................................... the paragraph...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u99	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again for the shorthand: "1." Paragraph 13, para. 2, p. 2 which shall enter into force from the 1st of the month following the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u102	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 19, following an amendment by the Commission, in accordance with its Report. I shall put to the vote § 19 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 79 against 7, abstention 2. Paragraph 19 of the Commission Report was adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Let us thank the rapporteur for the precise presentation of the report. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to do a procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning the extension of the deadline of yesterday's Defence and Armed Forces Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-39, to extend the deadline for proposals by two more weeks on the basis of the one currently running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u104	You mean three weeks in total?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u105	Three weeks in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u106	Okay. Is there a reverse opinion, honourable Members? There is. Here you go. People's representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am strongly opposed to the extension of the deadline, as this Law is extremely important, serious expectations are given by the employees, respectively the leadership of the army. It provides for very important structural changes which are also linked to the current implementation of their security duties at the border.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I put to the vote the proposed proposal made by the MP Hristo Gajev to extend the period between the first and second voting of the proposed bill, which will become 21 days. They voted 84 MPs: 54, Against 7, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. [[The number of votes for the European Parliament is less than the reference quorum.]] Are there any other procedures? I won't. [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to do a re-vote because some of my colleagues have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u110	Yeah, they're going into the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u111	I believe that what was made as a proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov is absolutely right, and I would therefore recommend that we abstain from the second vote. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u112	It's a re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] They voted 94 MPs: 21, Against 7, abstention 66. The proposal is not accepted, it remains the old deadline. It's 11:00. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Eleven thirty to go. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u113	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The People's Representative Mariana Boyadjieva has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On today 70 years ago the National Assembly declared Bulgaria a People's Republic. The MPs and ministers take an oath in this Chamber. It's a day that deserves our attention, our respect. Of course, today everyone in Bulgaria also connects with the first day of the new school year. For the Bulgarians this day has always been a holiday. We want to congratulate on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria all students, teachers and parents and wish them a successful new school year! At the same time, we cannot fail to express our concerns about the tension caused by thoughtless texts in the new school law that came into force. The government has convinced us that everything is calm in the system now. But what are the facts? There are no new textbooks! He's going to be studying new programs with old textbooks. First graders don't have a new letter! Motherhood disappears. According to the program from first to fourth grade, Bulgarian history will not be studied and this is evidently understood by those who supported the new Law in the Parliamentary Hall. It's the same chaos with the school programs after fifth grade. We have new programs with old textbooks. The seventh graders will study in the same year the material from two school years due to a clerical error. Material for a whole school year is missing in the program of today's sixth graders. At the same time, the required 19 state educational standards are ready 11 and 8 are not ready yet! However, schools and municipalities are not exempt from their obligations under the Law, which, without standards, must fulfil them, albeit formally. At the same school will complete primary education at the same time students from the seventh, eighth and ninth grade. They will receive the same document for a different volume of evaluated knowledge. They'll be studying different classes in different programs at the same time. From BSP left Bulgaria we submitted a bill to postpone the entry of the Law into force with all the motives that are confirmed today by the real situation in which Bulgarian education is. You, gentlemen and ladies, didn't accept it! You've been blaming us all over the place! Today, unfortunately, you are avoiding responsibility from what is happening in Bulgarian education. Chaos is underway, management irresponsibility will pay for students, teachers and parents every day. This, in our opinion, is a continuation of a policy which consistently leads the Bulgarian school to a humiliating state, to the demise of schools and their closure and to favouring private schools for public account. This policy has resulted in growing illiterateness and apathy. This policy must be put to an end! We have such an alternative. Because it is high time for the state to truly guarantee the constitutional rights and obligations of citizens: both the realization of the right to education and the compulsoryness of secondary education. In our project we provide for education to be a priority through: - the funds in the education budget to be 5% of GDP; - a change in delegated budgets to stimulate good quality, to ensure the development of schools, including small schools in small villages; - measures for the development of the school environment; standards for minimum information and technical, laboratory and sports tools for each student; - support and care for the Bulgarian teacher - inclusion of the teacher's profession in the list of regulated ones; payment depending on the qualification and quality of work, not mainly on the number of students; bonus and for harder working conditions; - support and care for the children and students - every child has a real opportunity to learn and develop; to help talented children. - care for the health of children with the provision of preventive medical, drug and dental assistance; - a comprehensive policy for strengthening and preserving national self-consciousness and culture as part of the culture of Europe and the world. Our understanding is that if we do not ensure a high educational level of the nation, all our other efforts will be unsuccessful. Once again, we celebrate the first day of school for all students, teachers and parents! We believe in the experience, strength, creativity and sustainability of the Bulgarian teacher, on which the future of the children of Bulgaria depends. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u115	The People's Representative Milena Damyanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is September 15th, a day in which we all celebrate the new beginning for our children in the way of knowledge, a day in which we welcome the originals with love and thank the teacher. We of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB are firmly on the path on which education is the basis of stable policy and the successful state, defend with concrete measures the cause of accessible kindergarten and accessible school, for a better environment in kindergartens and schools, with attention to the needs and talents of children, the cause of predictable success for every child and student, for responsibility and open attitude towards parents and professional dignity and respect for teachers. Today's September 15th is also important because the first school year begins with the new Preschool and School Education Act. GERB made a commitment to the adoption of this Law, which was discussed, commented and expected by hundreds of teachers and parents for more than 10 years and we fulfilled it. The law is at the heart of the necessary change to achieve quality education and economic stability of the state. It is the base on which we must step and together as a society to build our common future. It lays down the principle of freedom of choice and the right to education and personal prosperity for the child, for the family, for the teacher. September 15th is a day of beginning, a day of celebrating knowledge, a day of promise that we are doing our best to our future. It's probably a party's justification for bringing down, chaos and failure to the opposition, but it's politically irresponsible, honourable colleagues, to cause unwarranted and false embarrassment to the failure of the education system. The truth is that the Law, which so much annoys colleagues from BSP, because it clearly reminds them of their own failures and the time when the European Commission assessed Bulgaria with a weak 2 We strongly disagree with the subject of our children's education to continue to be used as party gum by parties who want to show that they are opposition. Being opposed to education is not a position that deserves respect. [[Applause from GERB.]] The law confirms the successful practices and the invaluable experience in the Bulgarian kindergartens in the Bulgarian school and the Bulgarian teacher. We of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB believe that today's September 15th is not only a day of the beginning of the school year, but a day when our children get the right to choose their way to knowledge and to success. We believe that today is a day of beginning when the teacher receives the real right and freedom to be an artist and professional, loved by children and respected by society. We believe that today is the day of the beginning, in which we will show that we can unite in supporting successful practices and overcome difficulties together. We believe in political responsibility, but not politics and party denial. We believe that we can build a successful Bulgaria together by working and building the success of our children. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear teachers, we thank you for giving our children love and care that they receive not only knowledge from you, but also life lessons as honest and honest people! Your professionalism depends on the success of every child. We wish everyone health, personal happiness and professional successes! Happy Holiday and Happy September 15th.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u117	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE COMMISSION'S REPORT ON CONTROL OF SECURITY SERVICES, APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCESS TO DATA ON ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS IN 2014 AND THE COMMISSION'S REPORT ON THE CONTROL OF SECURITY SERVICES, THE APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCESS TO DATA ON ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS IN 2014 AND THE COMMISSION'S REPORT ON THE CONTROL OF SECURITY SERVICES, THE APPLICATION AND USE OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURE AND ACCESS TO DATA ON ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS IN 2015 The Commission for the Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 9 June 2015 and 31 May 2016 respectively. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u118	♪ I can't believe the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications for the Use and Implementation of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2014. The Commission's report on the control of the security services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications has been prepared in compliance with the requirements of art. 17, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 34z, para.1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications. At the meeting held on 27 November 2014, the 43rd National Assembly elected the composition of the Commission. 20 Members of Parliament from each parliamentary group shall participate in the Commission on a proportionate basis. At its first meeting held on 11 December 2014, the Commission adopted internal rules for its work. The findings, evaluations and conclusions contained in the report are based on the discussions of this problem at Commission meetings, the inspections carried out in the country of the authorities concerned with the implementation of the laws and the information received by the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the State Agency of National Security. Analysis of data received and collected by the Commission in compliance with the requirements of 3acon for special intelligence means. The Commission required and received data from the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the DANS, the Ministry of Interior and the DATO about the requests received and the permissions granted for the use of the SRS. The information provided by the SJC and the authorities shall summarize the number of requests received under art. 13 of the Special Intelligence and Authorisations Act. For the past 2014, 7705 requests for use of the SRS have been received in the various courts of the country. They give 7443 permissions. The permissions for extension are 2134 and the number of refusals is 154. Data from authorities under art. 13 of the Special Intelligence Means Act are in Annex 1 to the report. In comparison with previous years, it can be noted that there has been a minor increase in the total number of requests for use of special intelligence resources compared to 2013. During the reporting period special intelligence funds were applied to 4202 persons, including 1824 on requests from the Ministry of Interior, 1324 from the National Security Agency, 1046 from the Prosecutor's Office, and 8 from the Military Police Office. Compared to 2013 the decrease was 250 persons and compared to 2012 the decrease was 1700 persons. The material evidence prepared is 1069 and the evidence used in criminal proceedings is 823. It can be concluded from the analysis of these data that 20% of the total number of physical evidences to the persons to whom the CRC has been applied are used in the criminal process. In 645 cases were used for objects to identify persons for whom there was evidence of their involvement in criminal activity under art. 12, para. 3, p. 4. of the Special Intelligence Means Act. 7 requests for use and implementation of the SRS have been made through the Prosecutor's Office and the DANS, and there is no ordered refusal. It can be concluded from these data that in the last three years, there has been a trend of continuous reduction of the persons to whom special intelligence means have been applied and used. In the data received by the applicants under art. 13 of the Law on Special Intelligence and those of the Supreme Judicial Council and the implementing bodies under art. 20 of the Law on Special Intelligence means differ in taking account of these indicators due to the fact that the authorities under art. 20 shall be filed by number of requests against number of persons and applicants under art. 13 of the Law has drawn up several requests against one person, which does not allow a complete and accurate picture of the registration order and the exact number of the used SRS. This is because in some courts of the Republic of Bulgaria is introduced the single register according to art. 34f, para. As of mid-2014, 2 and 3 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, registered data have been kept by decision of the Court of Justice. In some courts, permissions for the use of the SRS are granted after a private criminal case has been initiated, which cases are reported as done work according to an instruction for the work of the administrations of the courts of 2014, and in other cases not. The number of requests and the number of persons against whom the use of SRS is requested is also different. From the above data on the number of SRS produced and their use in the criminal process, it can be concluded that the effectiveness of the used SRS is not at the necessary level and their application itself is not an exceptional option. Analysis of data received and collected by the Commission in compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications. Checks carried out. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In May 2015, the expert panel supporting its work carried out checks under the Law on Electronic Communications in total in 74 inspection sites. The purpose of the checks was to establish the legality of the procedures in force for authorising and making access to the data under art. 250a, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications for 2014 The main sites for inspection were the district courts and district prosecutions in the district and municipal centers in Sofia, Montana, Pleven, Lovech, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Sliven and Yambol, military court and military prosecutors' offices in Sofia, Ministry of Interior Regional Affairs, DANS police and territorial departments, Ministry of Security and Interior, Criminal Police and Border Police. The findings of the checks. An organisation for registering requests for access to the data under art. 250a, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as of ordered orders and refusals. By their orders, the Presidents of the Court have authorised judges who, in their absence, order to provide the data under art. 250a, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications or to refuse it. A special paper-based register shall be kept under art. 250c, para. 3 which also reflects which member of the Penal Code is the request. In the district prosecutions, the administrative directors by their order have ordered the establishment of an electronic and paper register for the reasoned requests by the district prosecutors under art. 250c, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Order of its Conduct. In some prosecutions: District Prosecutor's Office Sofia, there is no separate register of requests and the same are registered in a common electronic register. An organization for reporting, storage and destruction of materials has been established in the main and regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior and the regional police departments. There are separate orders of directors to determine the order for registration of requests under the LEC on the basis of art. Article 159 204 of the PPC. No separate paper register shall be kept for requests made to mobile operators under art. 250c, para. 3 as it was until the end of 2013. Since the beginning of 2014, the Ministry of Interior's system has been implemented and a common legal system, which also includes requests under the Law on Electronic Communications, has begun to function. This, according to the officers of the district directorates and the police districts, creates a number of difficulties in preparing references for a certain period. For this reason, in some structures of the Ministry of Interior, requests continue to be kept in paper form. In May 2014, the Ministry of Interior gave instructions to requests from investigative police officers in accordance with art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. One of the PPCs should not be coordinated with the Chief Investigative Officer. In essence, this contradicts the instructions of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 3255/2010, for the order in which prosecutors and investigative bodies require data from undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services under the Law on Electronic Communications for the needs of pre-trial proceedings, i.e. for greater control to be agreed with a Chief Investigative Officer or a Monitoring Prosecutor. The Security Directorate (MI) was located in a period of creation of its own registration and the verification was accompanied by some difficulties in providing the necessary references and materials. According to a Commission decision, regional structures of the Directorate will be verified in 2015. In the territorial departments of National Security, an organization has been established for registration, reporting and destruction of the requests, of the issued court orders and of the destroyed references according to art. 250 es of the Law on Electronic Communications. There are orders of directors to empower a structural unit to fulfil the obligations under art. 261b, para. 3 of the LEC. The necessary organization for reporting, storage and destruction of materials has been established in the Military Police Service. There is an electronic register of requests under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Special Intelligence. A good organisation has been established in mobile operators for the report of requests received, refusals given and references drawn up. An electronic register shall be kept that allows both the report of the information by applicants and its grouping by decision of the court and in pre-trial proceedings. In the case of large Internet providers, an organisation and internal rules on the terms, conditions for keeping and access to registers have been established under the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications. Some of them lack a classified information structure. Local Internet Providers do not normally keep separate registers of requests under the Law on Electronic Communications. By the end of 2014, more than 1150 undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services were registered in the country in total. The most common reasons for the order of refusals by regional courts or for the impossible provision by undertakings in the case of requests for the receipt of traffic data may be grouped into several groups as follows: - insufficient motivation of the request; - lack on the basis of the relationship of that telephone number to the investigation; - what is the relationship between the persons for whom the disclosure of data is sought and the crime under investigation; - large volume of requested information (large number of phone subscribers); - in the case of pre-trial proceedings, the request shall be pursuant to Article 159. 1 of the PPC, not in an operational case; - the registration number of the file for which the verification is required is not indicated. This is necessary to ensure that the relevant authority has actually revealed the development of an operational report with the subject matter concerned and the existence of a valid legal basis for a request under art. 250b, para. 2 of the Law on Electronic Communications. The infringements found and the weaknesses assumed in the implementation of the Law on Electronic Communications can be summarised in several groups: - sending requests to mobile operators or to internet providers without order of the court; - in a number of cases, the structures of the pre-trial proceedings at the Ministry of Interior send requests with signatures to directors of directorates or heads of police regional governments instead of with the signature of an investigative police officer. In some of them, requests for the provision of traffic data refer to art. 159, para. 1 of the PPC, while the request is based on a file; - common practice is the dispatch from pre-trial proceedings of requests for traffic data in the form of letters and decrees by which they determine and oblige the provision of data. In this way, the instructions of Prosecutor General No 3255/2010 are not followed. - the sending of reminder letters in pre-trial proceedings indicating other data from the initial ones; - sending requests for information for a wide range of persons instead of a specific phone number. Analysis and conclusions from the data submitted to the Commission. According to data from the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in 2014, 108,474 cases of requested information were registered and 705 of them were not provided. According to data from mobile operators and the main Internet providers in 2014, 108 333 requests for access to data under art. 250a, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications (Annex 2 to the Report). For 2013, the requests were 116,91 and 2012. - 110, 301. Overall, there has been a relative retention of the total number of requests over the last three years. The total number of refusals (749) by mobile operators and internet providers represents 0,007% of the total number of requests. Total for the year by the order of art. 250, para. 1 of the LEC in relation to Art. 159, para. 1 of the PPC were made 55 829 requests, representing 52% of all requests, registered 504 refused (0.01% of requests). According to data from the Supreme Judicial Council for 2014 the district courts received 17 416 requests for the provision of traffic data (17 014 About 9% reduction in requests is observed as direct as 2013. 18 353 requests and 1874 refused both for 2012 and for 2012. 18 403 requests and 1 548 refusals. According to data from mobile operators, a total of 91 528 requests for traffic data were received by the Ministry of Interior, of which 52 213 in the order of art. 250, para. 1 of the LEC, in relation to Art. 159, para.1 of the PPC and 684 refused. According to data from the SANS for 2014 6658 requests were made, a total of 8340 orders were issued and 9431 references were received. According to data from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria for the reporting period according to art. 159, para. 1 of the PPC a total of 2917 requests to provide data under art. 250, para. 1 of the LEC, with 41 refusals given. From the Military Police Service, 208 requests have been made and there are 5 refusals. From Customs Agency to mobile operators, 94 requests for traffic data have been made without refusal. The number of requests does not coincide with the number of authorisation and refusal orders issued due to the following circumstances: - a separate request has been drawn up for each operator until mid-March 2014. After that date, more than one operator may be referred to by the President of the Sofia City Court in one request; - for mobile operators, each mobile phone referred to in the paper medium is a separate request, whereas for the district court the paper medium, no matter how many phone numbers it contains, is a single request. Complaints and alerts by natural and legal persons on the application of the Special Intelligence Means Act and the Electronic Communications Act. By the end of May 2015 A total of 17 complaints and signals from natural and legal persons have been received by the Commission. They can be grouped into three groups: the use and implementation of special intelligence resources On one request by the SRS, the Commission was also called upon, and after verification it found that there was no unlawful use and application of the SRS. On a second request by the CRC, the Commission was aware that, following an inspection by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means, there was also an unlawful application of special intelligence means. Following a complaint examination, infringements of the Law on Electronic Communications by the NRA and certain territorial directorates were identified, which was referred to the Executive Director of the NRA for taking appropriate measures and instructions. There are 8 complaints in the process of checking and clarifying the circumstances. The Commission was given competence by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means 5 signals with requests for verification of traffic data concerning mobile numbers and internet communication of complainants. In carrying out alerts, coordination and interaction with the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Interior, all subject to parliamentary control security services and undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services has been established. Until now, no evidence of unlawful access to traffic data has been established from complaints and alerts. Legislative changes, measures taken and proposals to improve the activity of access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the Special Intelligence Means Act. A number of legislative initiatives were taken in 2015, which led to improvement of the legal framework related to access to traffic data under the Law on Electronic Communications and the application and use of special intelligence tools and further adaptation of Bulgarian legislation to European legislation. Furthermore, as a result of the exercises parliamentary control over the activities of the security services and the work of undertakings providing public electronic services and/or networks, the organisation, accountability, storage and destruction of the materials acquired in the application of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Special Intelligence means was significantly improved. The following amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications were made in March this year: - shortening the period of storage of the data from 12 to 6 months; - the introduction of judicial control over requests for the needs of pre-trial proceedings and the request shall be submitted and submitted to the court by a monitoring prosecutor; - dropping the possibility of accessing the data for the purpose of investigating crimes that are not serious and for the purpose of searching for persons; - the reasons for the request and the court order for the access authorisation; - judicial control of the request for continued storage; - control by an independent state authority of the destruction of data after the expiration of the storage periods (the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data); - judicial control over the destruction of the data reference which is not used for the purposes of pre-trial proceedings. In such a way, sufficient safeguards have been put in place against abuse in the use of data which may affect constitutionally regulated rights. A check was carried out at the end of April in enterprises providing public electronic communications networks and/or services for the implementation of amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications. It was found that the practice continued, the demands under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC by investigating officers and monitoring prosecutors to be carried out without order of the court. For this, notifications were prepared to the Attorney General and to the Minister of Interior. In addition, at the end of March this year, on behalf of the Commission, a letter was sent to the Minister of Interior indicating some problematic issues and weaknesses in the structures of the Ministry of Interior identified in checks and proposals were made to improve the work. At a meeting, representatives of the Communications Regulation Commission discussed the issue of data storage. The Commission took the view that, in view of the potential threats to our national security, optimization of the regulation on the storage of Trafic data by all operators is necessary. Under the Special Intelligence Means Act, after a meeting was held it was proposed to the National Assembly to cancel art. 1, para. Art. 3 and Art. 20a, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission has examined the implementation and use of special intelligence funds in connection with a so-called operation. Following the hearing of the Presidents of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and the SANS found unlawful implementation of the SRS. The Commission considers that urgent changes to the Law on Special Intelligence in relation to its implementation and use in the prevention of acts posing a threat to national security and in the part concerning the duties of an authority under art. 15 to provide the court with all the materials, an extension of the period for drawing up the reasoned act of the court for authorisation or refusal of an immediate stay of up to 72 hours, and that in the event of the finding of unlawfulness of an authorisation for the application of the SRS in breach of the Law, the timely referral of the Prosecutor's Office and the information of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Commission shall consider as appropriate: -the introduction of a single approach and standard in reporting requests for access to data, both by undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services and regional courts; - for the purpose of better reporting and control and the possibility to prepare inquiries for a certain period of time, it is appropriate to continue to keep a separate register under the Law on Electronic Communications in paper or electronic form, such as the practice until the end of 2013 and to reflect which member of the Criminal Code is the request. In 2015, the checks will continue to be carried out on the legality of the procedures in force for authorising and accessing the data under the Law on Electronic Communications, according to Commission decisions. To the report, I mentioned, there are two applications. They are tabular: Annex No 1.. for data under the Special Intelligence Means Act; Annex No 2 to the Law on Electronic Communications for the year 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u119	And now introduce us to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u120	Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting an Annual Report 2014 on the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications for the performance of its duties under art. 34h of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications and in accordance with the provisions of art. 17, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Takes note of the annual report for 2014 on the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications for the performance of its duties under art. 34h of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications and in accordance with the provisions of art. 17, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Now let us also know about the 2015 report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u122	♪ I can't believe on the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2015. This report shall cover the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 17, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, art. 34z, para. 1 of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications. The findings, evaluations and conclusions contained in the report are based on the discussions and votes at the Commission meetings concerning the issues, the results of the inspections carried out by the authorities concerned with the implementation and compliance with the legal provisions, as well as on the information provided and received by the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the National Office for the Control of Special Intelligence, the State Agency of National Security, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of Technical Operations, the Ministry of Defence, as well as the companies providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. Analysis of data on the use and application of special intelligence means under the Special Intelligence Means Act. For the past 2015, the country's district courts have issued a total of 4034 authorisations for the use and application of special intelligence resources by the authorities under art. 13 of the Special Intelligence Means Act gave 3350 number of initial permits and 884 number of permissions to extend the deadline. Total rejections are 683 pieces. (Annex 1 to the report). In the analysis of the data so submitted, it can be concluded that there is a trend towards a significant reduction in the number of requests for use of special intelligence means compared to the other reporting periods for 2014 and 2013. The total number of requests for 2014 is 7604 and for 2013 is 7565 pieces, which in percentage terms is 37% compared to 2014 and 41% compared to 2013 respectively, a decrease in the number of requests. The highest percentage of applicants for the use of the SRS were the different services from the Ministry of Interior. Next with 30% is the Prosecutor's Office, 19% "SANS" and 0,5% "Office of the Military Police." In 2015, special intelligence means were applied to 2638 persons. Compared to the 2014 period, the CRC was applied to 4202 persons or 37% more, and in 2013 4452 persons or 40% more than in 2015. In 299 cases the SRS was used in relation to objects to identify persons for whom there was evidence of their involvement in criminal activity (Art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 of the Special Intelligence Means Act) and for 2014 their number was 645. The total number of BDS produced in 2015 is 1677 pieces and compared to 2014 their number is 1084 pieces and for 2013 is 1602 units There is a trend of nearly 55% increase in the production of physical evidence. The analysis of the data shows that from the 1677 pieces of evidence drawn up, the DATO has destroyed only 104 pieces in the presence of the hypothesis of a lapsed need or missed a period of time by the applicants. The percentage ratio between the number of material evidences produced and the number of persons temporarily restricted by the SRS for 2015 is 57% as compared to 24% in 2014 and 48% in 2013. It can be concluded from these data that during the last year there has been a trend of a constant reduction in the number of persons to whom special intelligence means have been requested and applied. This is also due to the fact that legislative changes were made in 2015, as a result of which judicial review was strengthened with regard to the authorisations granted for the use of special intelligence resources. The legislative changes also increase the requirements for applicants for the use and application of special intelligence means. The data received by the applicants under art. 13 and those of the SJC and the implementing bodies referred to in art. 20 of the Law on Special Intelligence means differ in taking account of these indicators due to the fact that the authorities under art. 20 shall be filed by number of requests against number of persons and applicants under art. 13 have drawn up several requests against one person. From those data on the number of SRSs, the BDZs produced and their use in the criminal process, the conclusion on the implementation of measures ensuring the legality and efficiency of the application of special intelligence means can be drawn as an extreme and exceptional means. Findings of checks regarding compliance with the procedures for authorising and implementing access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications and Data Analysis Findings of checks In accordance with Commission Decisions Nos 3 and 4, in accordance with art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications for carrying out parliamentary control and monitoring of procedures for authorising and implementing access to the data under art. 251b of the LEC, in the period June 2015 The expert panel supporting the Commission's work carried out checks under the Law on Electronic Communications in 22 districts of the country and Sofia-city of a total of 307 structures. The subject of the checks is compliance with the procedures for authorising and making access to the data under art. No. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications 2015 as well as the application of the Law following its amendment and addition, promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union. 24 of 31 March 2015 An organization for acceptance and registration of requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the Law on Electronic Communications, as well as the ordered refusals, and order to destroy unnecessary information. The Administrative Directors shall be given a personal ruling on the requests under the procedure of art. 251d, para. 1 of the LEC and in their absence by the authorised alternate. The pronunciation of requests for data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC takes place on judges' duty, and requests are registered in a common court-martial system. Both an electronic register and a special paper register under art. 251d, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications. In most cases, requests under the order of art. 251d, para. 5 of the LEC in relation to Art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC shall be registered in a common legal system of the court which allows for the preparation of summary references. There is no single system established on how to register requests received by the prosecution concerning more than one undertaking providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. The courts of the larger settlements on the basis of one request shall register a private criminal case and shall be given an order accordingly. The courts of smaller settlements on the basis of one request shall register N the number of private criminal cases according to the number of undertakings referred to in the request and shall, accordingly, rule by so many orders. For the majority of the courts, reports with reasoned requests of the prosecution for the destruction of inquiries by undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services containing data under art. 251b, para. Article 1 of the LEC and Article 1 of the LEC 159a, para. 1 of the PPC. The refusals given in the relevant regional courts are motivated, contain the necessary legal and factual grounds for doing so and may be summarised as follows: - the requests do not contain the required props under art. 159a, para. 3, p. 3 of the PPC... the lack of specific data on persons for whom traffic data are required; - the requests do not contain a description of the circumstances on which the request is based and the requested data reference period is greater than six months; - the undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services referred to in part of the requests of the Prosecutor's Office are not within the range of companies within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Communications; - the requests are for a large volume of information within the range of several cells of a mobile terrestrial electronic communications network from which it is generated or in which a call is termed and for a relatively long period of time; - the reasoned request has not been prepared by the monitoring prosecutor in pre-trial proceedings as required by art. 159a, para. 3 of the PPC; - the facts described in the file are insufficient to establish the person and his actions endangering national security and how the requested data will contribute to the detection of the crime; - the Ministry of Interior has been sent to the court motivated requests for the provision of traffic data in an operational case for the detection and investigation of a crime for which pre-trial proceedings have already been initiated; - the request of the monitoring prosecutor does not specify the investigating authority and to whom the requested data should be provided; - the request does not concern a serious or serious deliberate crime. In the district courts an organization is established to accept and register the received reasoned requests from the prosecution for access to the data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC, as well as of the ordered orders. By order of the administrative heads of the courts, Judges shall be authorised to order, in their absence, the provision of the data or the refusal of such data. In most of the courts there have not been any reports with reasoned requests of the prosecution for the destruction of inquiries by undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services containing data under art. 251b, para. Article 1 of the LEC and Article 1 of the LEC 159a, para. 1 of the PPC. Requests for consultation of the data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC shall be registered as private criminal cases in an electronic register within the framework of the common court system of the courts. Electronic and/or paper-based register shall also be kept under art. 251d, para. 4 of the LEC. The Sofia City Court has established separate registers for the requests received under art. 251h of the LEC and under Art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC. There are several cases in which the district courts have granted permission to access data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC, although requests do not concern serious intentional crimes, respectively do not meet the requirement of art. 159a, para. Two of the PPCs. The refusals given in the relevant courts are motivated and contain the necessary legal and factual grounds for doing so. In the prosecutions in the country is established the necessary organization to register and keep the report of the prepared reasoned requests for providing data under art. 251d, para. 5 of the LEC in relation to Art. 159a of the PPC. By Order No RD-04-381/21.07.2015 of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria is established model of the Register of requests for submission of data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC and accordingly such a register shall be kept in the prosecutions. By Order No RD-04-371/14.07.2015 the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria is defined the order for destruction of the data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC according to the requirement of art. 159a, para. 6 of the PPC, which was introduced and implemented by prosecutors in the country. There is no uniform practice established in prosecutions concerning the preparation of a pre-trial procedure of a number of requests concerning one or more undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. There is also no uniform practice for the order to send court authorisations to undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services. In most cases, permissions are returned to the prosecutor's office and the monitoring prosecutor sends them to the investigating officer, and he sends them to the mobile operator. In some judicial areas, the monitoring prosecutor sends them to the operators, and there are cases in which the court has sent them to the businesses and has informed the prosecution. In the Ministry of Interior, proposals for requests under art. 251c, para. 1, t. 2 of the LEC containing classified information shall be registered in a special electronic register which shall be kept in the respective Directorate of the Ministry. No single order has been introduced regarding the registration of proposals for requests for data under art. 159a, para. 3 of the PPC in the order of art. 251d, para. 5 of the LEC. In most directorates, the proposals are registered in the common filing system of the Ministry of Interior, which makes it particularly difficult to draw up summary reports. Only in individual cases paper-based registers shall be kept. In the sectors of the Ministry of Interior for 2015 the requests for data under art. 251b, para. 1 of the LEC are registered in the classified register of the Ministry of Interior. The references to the data not used in pre-trial proceedings shall be destroyed in due course under the order provided for in the Law, but the minutes shall not be sent immediately to the President of the relevant court which granted the authorisation. The departments of the Ministry of Interior have a limited number of requests under the LEC and are sent to the court through the Department of Homeland Security. Directed by the Border Police......................................................................................................... 251c, para. 1, t. 2 of the LEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u123	Mr. Lazarov, please, a little higher or pull the microphones next to you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u124	The requests shall be registered in a paper-based register by order of the Director of the Directorate-General of Border Police. Data requests under art. 159a, para. 3 of the PPC are registered in the Directorate's common legal system. The references to the data not used in pre-trial proceedings shall be destroyed in due course under the order provided for in the Law, but the minutes shall not be sent immediately to the President of the relevant court which granted the authorisation. An organization for reporting, storage and destruction of materials has been established in the territorial. A separate paper-based register shall be kept for requests made under the Law on Electronic Communications containing classified information. Reports of data not used in pre-trial proceedings shall be promptly destroyed under the order provided for in the Law, but the minutes shall not be sent immediately to the President of the court concerned. The Departments of Customs Intelligence and Investigation shall send their requests under art. 159a, para. 3 from the PPC to the court by the monitoring prosecutor. In large enterprises providing public electronic communications networks and/or services, an organisation and internal rules on the terms, conditions for keeping and access to registers are established in accordance with the provisions of the LEU and its amendments and additions. Some of them store and provide only aggregated data, while others lack a classified information structure. Local internet providers shall not keep records of authorisations for the use of TEU traffic data. Following the amendments and additions to the LEU, a case has been identified where traffic data from internet providers are provided without the order of the relevant court in accordance with the new regulations. In order to end this practice, the Commission has sent letters to the institutions concerned in the case, which refer to them about the need to bring their activities into line with the amendments and additions made to the Law on Electronic Communications. On the basis of their actions, this practice has been terminated in a timely manner. As a result of the checks carried out and the facts found, proposals may be made as appropriate to improve the work in the following guidelines. In the prosecutions of the country it is necessary to introduce a uniform practice on the procedure for the preparation of the reasoned requests concerning one or more undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services, as well as on the manner of sending the authorisations granted by the court to the undertakings. It is necessary to introduce uniform practice in the courts, both for registration and for issuing orders on requests from the prosecution for access to traffic data. It is necessary to exercise more effective control than the authorities under art. 251c, para. 1 of the LEC on compliance with their obligation under art. 251g, para. 2 of the LEC for the immediate dispatch to the court of the records for the destruction of data references which are not used in the preparation of pre-trial proceedings. In the system of the Ministry of Interior to introduce a uniform practice regarding the registration and accountability of prepared and sent to the prosecution proposals for requests of data under art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC. Analysis of data under the Law on Electronic Communications. According to data from mobile operators in 2015, 70 406 requests for access to traffic data were received, with 108 333 in 2014 and 116 091 in 2013. The comparative analysis of the data shows that the decrease compared to 2014 was 35% and compared to 2013 was 39,4%. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u125	Please don't enter into a discussion with the House! Please do not interrupt the speaker! Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u126	Honourable Members, control data under the Law on Electronic Communications have not been and are not subject to control by the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. This is a Commission report which has been adopted by the Commission. According to data from the Supreme Judicial Council of Regional Courts according to art. 251d, para. 5 of the LEC in relation to Art. 159a, para. 1 of the PPC have received 13 354 reasons for requests from monitoring prosecutors to provide traffic data from businesses. They gave 12 447 authorisations and gave 917 refusals, representing 6.9% of all requests. The requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the LEC are 12 948 pieces, giving 12 856 numbers of permissions and 1994 the number of refusals or 15.4% of all requests. It should be clarified that the number of requests does not correspond to the sum of the number of authorisations and refusals, since, in a number of cases, the court is to rule by more than one order and, in other cases, a partial authorisation or partial refusal. According to data from the Ministry of Interior and DANS for the period until 31 March 2015 the requests until December 2015 to provide data under art. 159, para. 1 from PPC to mobile operators are 12 607 pieces, and for the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015 are 13 353 pieces. A total of 38 908 requests for access to the data under art. 251b of the LEC, of which 26 507 pieces clearly and 12 401 pieces classified, Annex 2. The observed trend of the significant reduction in requests and the provision of traffic data is mainly due to the judicial review introduced with the amendment and the LEU Appendix, as amended. in DB No. 24 of 31 March 2015 Complaints and alerts relating to breaches by security services officers and the use of special intelligence means under the Special Intelligence and Trafical Data Act under the LEC. In accordance with the internal rules on the order and operation of the Commission for the control of the security services, the use and application of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Commission shall examine complaints and alerts of citizens and organisations in respect of actions and acts of the security services and in relation to the use of special intelligence and traffic data. For the period 2015 a total of 20 complaints and signals from natural and legal persons were received by the Commission. According to their subject matter are divided into several groups: 7 pieces against employees of the security services; 6 pieces against the misuse of special intelligence and traffic data; 7 pieces of other, involving labour relations, access to classified information and of a general nature. Following checks on complaints and alerts submitted, including those received at the end of 2014, the Commission took 21 decisions. Complaints and alerts shall be duly notified in writing of the decision taken and of the results of the verification carried out. There are 3 complaints under investigation that occurred at the end of 2015. Legislative changes, measures taken and proposals to improve the activities under the Special Intelligence Means Act and the Electronic Communications Act. During the reporting period of 2015, on the basis of proposals received to improve the activity under the Law on Hurricane, based on the experience in the practice of implementing the current arrangements, the Commission examined and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Intelligence Funds adopted by the National Assembly on 17 September 2015, as amended. in D.C., issue 74, 2015 The adopted amendments and additions shall specify the time limits for the implementation of the special intelligence means under art. 21 of the Special Intelligence Means Act, which was in any event up to two months with the possibility of extending this period to six months in total. With the new article. 21, para. 1, t. 1 significantly reduced the period for the application of special intelligence means in cases of art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 "Instructions in order to identify persons. It shall be limited to 20 days on the initial authorisation of the court with the possibility of being continued for up to 20 days, but not more than 60 days. It is obvious that this considerably shorter contains all the signs of proportionality with the aim of the measure in place and the protection of citizens' personal rights. The use of special intelligence means with regard to activities related to the protection of national security no doubt have specific features and have been taken into account in the legal regulation adopted. In cases of the prevention of serious criminal offences against the Republic under Chapter 1 of the special part of the Penal Code, the term under art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 was increased to six months initially with the possibility of continuing for up to six months. With the amendments adopted to art. 31 existing gaps have been filled in as regards the period for storing the information necessary to protect national security and at the same time its scope has narrowed. Thus, only the information on the new article. 21, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 2 and not any information necessary to protect national security shall be kept for a period of up to 15 years, and then destroyed by a committee of directors. With the amendment of art. 34z, para. 1 of the Law, parliamentary control shall be limited to the very procedures for the authorisation, application and use of special intelligence and to the preservation and destruction of information obtained through them, and not to the state authorities that carry them out. The adopted legislative change to the Special Intelligence Means Act introduced clear rules and deadlines regarding the information collected with special intelligence and further guarantees for protection of the rights of citizens, which concrete measures undoubtedly produced a good result. Law on electronic communications. The legislative changes, colleagues, were adopted on 26 March 2015, promulgated in the Official Journal, which I read in the previous report. "Project for DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34h of the Special Intelligence Means Act, art. Article 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications and Article 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications. 17, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which shall be carried out under art. 34h of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications, Parliamentary Control and Observation for the period 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. These were the Commission's reports. I'm opening the debate. The People's Representative Atanas Atanasov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary control is one of the main functions of the National Assembly along with legislative activity. Such a Commission was established for the first time in the Forty-First National Assembly. She chose herself on a parietal principle and was guided rotationally. But it's history. I would like to draw your attention to several circumstances which concern the way in which the security sector is managed as a whole and to some very disturbing circumstances, in my view, concerning the management of some of the structures in the security sector. This Commission works under a special regime. Her sessions are closed. There we discuss very important circumstances that do not receive any publicity, because much of the information is classified. However, there are facts and circumstances that do not have any security griff but are very scandalous. They refer directly to the management of the entire security sector. The security sector in the country with its constituent parts today is managed single-handedly and I would say manually by the Prime Minister. For this there are numerous facts and very disturbing circumstances. I would like to draw your attention to some important circumstances. First of all, unfortunately, I did not accept a proposal that I had made in the two committees to make a hearing with the three heads, members of the special committee, which, under the National Security Service Act, decides to appoint guards on special occasions. In particular, I wanted to find out in the order of parliamentary control who made the decision in December to remove the guards of Lutvi Mestan. We have not received an answer to this question and this item has not been placed on the agenda in the Commission. The second circumstance, which I think is very important, I have made a lot of efforts and, in the order of parliamentary control, I have asked the Prime Minister a question. The answer, of course, didn't satisfy me. Today, I would like to repeat that fact again. A person who does not have a single day's service in this Agency was appointed as Vice-President of the State Agency. All the circumstances surrounding this man's growth indicate that he is very close to the so-called Sarai-library group. I keep saying that so you can hear it and know it. I would like to pay particular attention to the work of one of the most important services in the country. These are the eyes and ears of the Bulgarian State "The State Agency". This is the office that is eavesdropping, tracking, which supplies the country's operational services with extremely important information and which must provide evidence in the criminal trial of the important cases in which serious crimes are investigated. I have something amazing to tell you today. I am concerned that I am a Member of the National Assembly because of this circumstance. The President of the State Agency is the person Tsvetan Kitov. He was appointed President of this Agency on 23 October 2013 by a decision of the Government of Plamen Oresharski. Let me finish this and I'll give you two or three arguments with this guy's personnel growth. In this National Assembly, we adopted an amendment to the Special Intelligence Funds Act, which was published in the Official Journal, No. 14 of 2015. With it we changed the mechanism for appointment of the President of the DATO and adopted it is in force that the President of the DATO is appointed by decree of the President on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's decree is not to this day! Do you realize what this is about?! Do you know how I got this information? There are staff dismissed from this agency, who are handling cases in the Supreme Administrative Court, referring to the fact that their dismissal orders are signed by a person who does not have that quality. I asked the Prime Minister a written question and was answered that there was no such decree, because in the Transitional and Final Regulations no time limit was set for this decree to be issued. If there's no deadline, that means right away! What's next? All special intelligence means carried out by which physical evidence has been drawn up and presented in various criminal cases, in that period during which the requests are signed by that person, will be attacked in the courts. I know this is where I'm going to start explaining some legal arguments. Please, a law has been passed by the National Assembly, which requires a decree of the President for the appointment of this person and there is no decree! It's a year and a bad time! Because I'm looking at your surprised faces, so I can tell you a few things. By the way, perhaps Mr. Tsvetanov is best aware, and I would put these things in the form of questions. Do you know what the role or attitude of the face Tsvetan Kitov to the scandal is? Ask what position he was in and what happened then. Something else. In 2013, when the elections were, there was a tough campaign against you by GERB against Tsvetan Tsvetanov. This campaign started with dirt that Sergey Stanishev brought to the main prosecutor's office for some catchers, mass eavesdroppings and so on. Mr. Tsvetanov, do you know what Tsvetan Kitov's involvement in this scandal is? And today you are in power, and this man is the chairman of the DATO without a decree! Among other things, how this Agency works, which we rely on to collect important operational information, evidence of criminal trials. In 2013 and 2014 a mass cleaning was carried out at the Agency. Not tens of people were fired, but hundreds of experienced professionals, longtime employees, and then a process of appointment began. Competitions shall be imitated and comfortable persons appointed. All contests held for the appointment of key management positions in the DATO shall be with one candidate. There's an opening, and you're targeting the comfortable person who needs to be assigned. It's a process of very heavy-duty trading. I'll give you a few examples in a moment. There is a service to certain circles of oligarchics and others, with personnel appointments to this Agency. The right person is located, is told that he is suitable to be appointed and is given the opportunity to prepare for the competition, after which a contest is announced and a three-day period is given for collecting documents and submitting them for application. And in three days you can't get a criminal record, ladies and gentlemen! In this way, there has been a complete production trade in this Agency, and we rely on objectivity in the application of special intelligence means, on keeping state secrets, on non-information and so on and so forth. Unchanged chairman of all the committees, for these competitions is a lady - Maria Kostadinova, I think it was called. Sorry, Mariana Vladimirova. Mariana Vladimirova, Secretary General of this Agency. I'm not going to tell you the whole biography of this lady, I'm only going to read you her education. She has graduated from National Security, Statehood, Spirituality and Leadership. Do you know where this specialty is taught?! At the University of Library Knowledge and so on, and so on, the Faculty, which is run by the Mityo Gestapo. This woman is the DAD's Cadrovik. She's in charge of all the appointment committees. Now let me tell you about some appointments, because there are many. Let's say, as we are talking here about personnel policy in particular, on 15 March 2015 there was a competition for the position, notice, Head of Department of the Department of Department of Personnel Development at the DATO. Of course, there's only one candidate, one lady. She won the contest and was appointed to this position. Before that, she only had four years of service. In the first two years she worked as a mattress salesman at the Magniflex and the second two years she worked as a dumpling seller at the Aladdin Foods. This lady is the DAD's headmaster. It's very sad, ladies and gentlemen! It's a national security risk. The agency, which should be the eyes and ears of the state, is led by several people who have grave doubts that they are mainly involved in this not to work for the state, but to serve private or oligarchic interests, and by individuals and environments who have been brought down by protests by the people. I can give you more circumstances, but I don't want to bore you with all this. Not to comply with the procedure for appointment of the President, not to have a decree of the President, which is required by law and thus to put at risk all evidence collected in a year and a half, to imitate the competitions and to appoint comfortable persons, satisfying the interests of different people in both the state and outside the state structures, so that famous persons from the Bulgarian oligarchy may have convenient appointments to serve them and in this office where information flows...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u129	Mr. Atanasov, would you like to extend the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u130	Yes, please extend the time. I'm done and finally I'm going to tell you very friendly, there's no malice in what I'm going to tell you. Many times, including people from your circles, colleagues from GERB have asked me the question: why did you abandon us, why did you go to opposition? I'm sorry, I can't support a government that has plotted the security sector, distributed it to different people from the oligarchy. How do we do that?! I can't! Think about all this. I don't know if there's time and opportunity to change that. I know you can't ask questions to the Prime Minister who is the chairman of your party, so I'm asking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? There are no MPs willing to make a line. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote the Decision adopting the 2014 Annual Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Mr. Dimitar Lazarov acquainted you with the draft decision. We vote. Vote 88 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a decision adopting an annual report on the Commission's activities for the control of the security services and the use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications for 2015. With the draft decision you were acquainted with her chairman Dimitar Lazarov. We vote. Vote 87 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc Mrs. Boyka Marinska
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Declaration of the Reformation Block: The reformation bloc greets all Bulgarian teachers, students, teams in Bulgarian schools, their families and Bulgarian citizens on the first day of school. For the Reformation Block, education is one of the main and key policies. The bloc supports and works hard to implement this political priority and to implement the key reform of education. At the same time, however, the Reformation Bloc condemns the attempts of the Patriotic Front and BSP to use the brightest day politically for the Bulgarian family. Use it in their campaign. We pay attention to the Patriotic Front, the BSP and others, tempted by populism political subjects in the National Assembly, that the ground for campaigning cannot be the Bulgarian school, neither the Bulgarian classrooms nor the students' textbooks, making a sharp remark that this is a conscious violation of the Constitution. The reformist bloc stresses that on a festive day such as today, where more than 719 thousand Bulgarian students enter school, it is not the time for pointless politicisation and political politics, but the day when the whole society takes account of the role of the Bulgarian teacher. It is at the heart of the reform that has been waiting for decades for society. We note that it is patriotic to support the teaching community at the highest political level of the entire political spectrum, but, colleagues, it is not patriotism on the first day of school to benefit from the accumulation of political dividends and the attack of educational standards to the fruit of sustainable political and public consensus. Obviously, we need to recall that the policy of the Ministry of Education stems from the priorities of the political declaration and the management program of the majority, supported by our partners from the Patriotic Front. We call for the immediate cessation of attempts through political hypocrisy and the circulation of false data on standards, civil and patriotic education, to create tensions in the system, and it is on the first day of school that we call on the quoted parties to immediately remove their election campaign from the Bulgarian schools. The reform bloc supports the efforts of the Ministry of Education and Science, which within six months managed to catch up with all delays in the preparation of state educational standards and key textbooks for the V class "Science and education for smart growth" in order to ensure a decent and calm start of the school year and the overall reform of the sector. The reformation bloc will continue its efforts to support teaching work. Bulgaria has a serious and lasting shortage of teachers, and the attractiveness of the teaching profession for young people without incentives cannot be increased. Colleagues, education is a mission mission of the forty-third National Assembly, which adopted the key law for the sector. On this basis, the Reformist bloc calls on the political forces in the National Assembly to agree to keep the Bulgarian school untouchable for political and party struggles of the election campaign and any attempts to break this balance to be strongly condemned. To colleagues from the Patriotic Front I would recommend to pay attention to the spelling in the books, which allow themselves to distribute in Bulgarian schools because, colleagues from the Patriotic Front, patriotism is also to be able to rule the Bulgarian alphabet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. We move on to the next item of the National Assembly's work programme: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE INNOVATION WITH THE INORGANIC ORGANIZATIONS AND THE COMPLAINTS OF THE CIVIL CIVIL CITY AND THE THREE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR THE DECEMBER 2014 "May 2015; Report on the COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATION WITH THE IMPROVING ORGANIZATIONS AND THE COMPLAINTS OF THE CIVERS IN THE FOURTH AND THE THREE PEOPLE'S DECEMBER 2015 AND REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK ON THE INNOVATION WITH THE IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATIONS AND THE COMPLAINTS OF THE CROSSERS AND THE TRIALS OF THE CREEDING AND THE TRIAL OF PEOPLE'S DECEMBER 2016 The report will introduce us to her chairman, the people's representative Mrs. Boyka Marinska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I present to your attention a summary of the three reports on the activities of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and complaints of citizens in the Forty-third National Assembly for the period December 2014. "July 2016" imported on the basis of art. Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2009 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints consists of 15 MPs. There are five state experts working for her. A public council has been formed by the Commission, whose role is to provide expertise and participation of a wide range of NGOs and representatives of civil society in expressing opinions, opinions and proposals regarding legislative acts, as well as to contribute to the transparency of the Commission. For the past period, 22 meetings have been held and 26 reports on bills and draft decisions have been submitted. Rules were adopted for the designation of representatives of non-governmental organisations as members of the public council of the Commission. The rules allowed NGOs with at least three years of experience to nominate their representative as a member of the public council and the Commission's proposed procedure for the election of representatives to the public council was assessed by non-governmental organisations as democratic, transparent and successful. Despite the understandable desire of each organization to impose its nominated candidate, dialogue, consensus and partnership relations were established during the meetings, which showed a high culture of communication between NGOs and readiness for joint future work. The formed public council represents over 250 NGOs. As some of them are networks, national represented or umbrella organisations, the activities of the public council are supported by the experts of the Commission, information on the drafts that have been submitted, meetings are organised which are held in the National Assembly building, protocols are kept and its transparency and work is ensured by publishing the information on the Commission's website. Opinions submitted by other non-governmental organisations, not members of the public council, shall also be received to the Commission. Experts examine them and bring them to the knowledge of both the public council and the MPs through the publication of the page. The Commission participates in various events, public discussions at the invitation of various NGOs who seek our assistance in solving problems and issues important to our society. An important part of the Commission's activities are the organised admissions for citizens in the National Assembly building, which are attended by MPs and experts. Written materials and particulars to them shall be accepted or legal advice on the ground shall be given. The timetable for admissions shall be specified at a Commission meeting. By the end of June 2016, 32 regular admissions were carried out and over 200 persons were heard and consulted. No citizen who sought assistance outside the admissions office has been sent away. They're all heard and consulted. Four emergency receptions were also carried out. For the period 1085 complaints, requests, signals, petitions from citizens and organisations have been received, including the number of repeated complaints providing new data and circumstances or expressing discontent with the answers of the competent institutions. The same shall be referred to the applicant's file and re-examined by examining the new facts and arguments and responses of the institutions. In the letters sent to the competent authorities, we insist, except for an answer to the Commission, that all actions on the problems raised be informed by the applicants. Often these answers are not sent to citizens and this requires the Commission's collaborators to forward them. Over 80 memorable letters have been sent to institutions which have not responded within the statutory deadline. Interaction and coordination with state and local authorities is essential for the effectiveness of the Commission's work. Unfortunately, we cannot give a single positive assessment in this regard. In many cases, we face formalism, bureaucratic approach and understatement of problems. It is true that in most cases we encounter understanding and assistance, but the examples of transfer of responsibility between the institutions continue, of delaying and delaying the answers and decisions, of neglected positions and decisions of the National Assembly. The Commission's recent work gives reason to make the summary that it is the living and immediate connection of citizens with the National Assembly. As an expression of their hopes for effective assistance and problem-solving in all areas of public life, the Commission has been able to help a large part of them. Very often, those seeking assistance need not only consultation, but also attention that they receive without reservation. Members of the Commission and experts shall be empathetic to the questions raised by the applicants by seeking to protect their guaranteed civil rights under the Constitution. Many thank-you letters have been received due to the Commission's timely intervention. It is natural to have dissatisfied with her work. In most cases these are complainants who have posed the same problems over the years related to judicial decisions, applications for placement, accommodation in municipal housing and others. It is satisfactory that their numbers are relatively small compared to those for which the aid granted was timely and effective. Mr President, I am proposing an amendment to the draft decision because the three reports of the Commission are addressed simultaneously in plenary, I propose that they be voted on by one decision. Publicity of the reports is guaranteed. They are uploaded on the website of the National Assembly, the meetings of the Commission are also public, broadcast online and due to the facts outlined, no additional point needs to be voted in the decision to send the reports to different institutions and organizations that are relevant to the subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u135	Please also introduce us to the Project Decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u136	Yeah. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on reports on the Commission's activities on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 39, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt reports on the activities of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints in the 43rd National Assembly for the December 2014 periods. "May 2015" and "June 2015" and "January 2016" The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly on today and is sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u137	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. I shall close the deliberations and in accordance with art. 69 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I announce an hour - 9:00 tomorrow and a date for voting on the Report. Parliamentary control messages on 16 September 2016 Friday, 9:00 p.m. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin; Svetoslav Belemezov [[two questions]] ; and Zhelyo Boychev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer four questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov; Ivan Stankov; Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva; and Yavor Haytov. 3. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer three questions from MP Miho Mihov; and Dimitar Bajraktarov [[two questions]] and a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 4. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer two questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev; and Angel Naydenov. 5. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev; and Atanas Stoyanov. 6. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer seven questions from the MPs Nikola Hadzhiyski; Nikolay Alexandrov; Dora Yankova; Velizar Enchev; Kostadin Markov; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; and Yavor Haytov and Petar Ivanov. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer a question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 8. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; and Borislav Iglev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions written by the MPs Velizar Enchev; and Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stefan Kenov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova - two questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev; and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva; - a question from the National Representative Ayhan Etem to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev; - two questions from the National Representative Vili Lilkov to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov; the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski; and the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov. Due to participation in an international meeting of parliamentary control, the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev; Minister of Health Petar Moskov; Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova; Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will not participate. Due to the participation of the 27 Heads of State or Government of the European Union in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate. Due to a business trip in the parliamentary control meeting, the national representative Rumen Gechev will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-15.u138	Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 with a vote on today's Report and then with parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
