ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] By letter No 652-24-1 of 21 January 2016, I am informed by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, Chair of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, that by decision of the General Assembly of the Group, held on 19 January 2016, Tuesday, Mrs. Polina Karastoyanova was released from her post as Vice-President of the Group of her own will and at her place was elected Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group Mr. Boris Yachev. The change will be reflected in the parliamentary group manual register. According to our weekly programme, item one for today is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Ademov, we are listening to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u2	Actually, there are two reports because there are two projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u3	Yes, your note is correct. Two are the bills. The reports of your Commission are separate under both laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Labour Code, No 654-01-2, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 20 January 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the Labour Code submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin and representatives of the social partners. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlana Angelova. She recalled that there is a new census of trade unions and employers' organisations due to the expiry of the 4-year mandate of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. In this regard, the Members of the National Assembly, importers of the Bill, have prepared a change in the representation criteria. Ms. Angelova noted that these criteria have been approved by employers and trade unions, now presented at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. According to the reasons of the bill, the proposed changes are also related to the changed socio-economic situation, the changed state of the labour market, a change in the structure of unemployment and the changing number of employees. According to the importers of the bill, the amendment of art. 34 of the Code is imperative due to the fact that employment has decreased, with which the number of workers has decreased. This is naturally reflected in the number of trade union members, which is also reduced. The current norm for 75 thousand members is unrealistic, given the change of circumstances in the country's socio-economic picture. The proposed requirement for 50 thousand members of a trade union according to the importers of the bill is real and objective. With regard to changes in art. 35 of the Labour Code on Employers' Organizations The bill provides for compliance with the differentiation and diversity of individual employers' organisations. The proposed changes prevent the possibility of distortion of the market environment and the risk of monopolyism. It is particularly important to emphasise that with the increased requirements, employers from the small and micro enterprises sector will also be able to be represented. The importers are convinced that the change in the representation criteria of both trade union and employers' organisations creates conditions for proportionality, maximum representativeness and balance of participants in the social dialogue. According to them, the bill is consensual and will contribute to a new quality of social dialogue as a key tool for conducting industrial relations policy. In the Commission were received and presented to the importers of the Draft and the members of the Commission opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, KT "Supporta" and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. All opinions are positive. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy also delivered an opinion supporting the bill and its motives. According to him, it is the successful understanding between employers and trade unions and ensures that the census procedure will be organised in terms of transparency and maximum publicity. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Dimitar Tanev, Georgi Gokov and Cornelia Ninova. Mr. Gokov said that he withdrew his signature as an importer of the Bill because of his belief that these criteria of representativeness would make the census impossible for small and micro enterprises. Ms Cornelia Ninova stressed that she does not accept the hasty drafting of the bill and insists on having two readings so that proposals can be made by the MPs to be discussed at both a meeting of the Commission and a meeting of parliament. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with a result of 12 votes, the Commission of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill amending the Labour Code with importer Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs in the first vote. Second ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-180, submitted by Georgi Kadiev on 9 November 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 20 January 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Kadiev. According to the reasons, this Bill aims to enable citizens to reduce the levels of work-related stress in their daily lives. This can happen by increasing the time of paid annual leave from 20 to 25 working days per year. Such changes have been adopted by a number of countries and prove their effectiveness in restoring tensions in everyday life and maintaining a more complete life. Denmark, Finland, France, Austria, Luxembourg, Sweden are part of the countries with 25 days of leave and in the Russian Federation and Great Britain the paid annual leave reaches 28 working days. According to the introduction of the Bill, the claim that in Bulgaria the official holidays are too many and they compensate for the relatively shorter period of paid annual leave is untenable. In most of the above countries the official holidays are between 8 and 10 days a year as they are in Bulgaria. It is significant that it is the most successful countries in the world in terms of quality of life of the population who are betting on a longer paid annual leave. It needs to be clearly understood that with guaranteed workers' rights, productivity increases, stress decreases, and ultimately the positive effects for the economy would compensate for the increased rest time for everyone working in the country. The Commission received and made available to the importer of the Draft and the members of the Commission opinions of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, KT Supporta and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. All employers' organizations strongly reject the Bill. Syndical organizations support the idea of combating stress, but do not think that its implementation through the Bill is the right one. This is the position of the CST. KT "Support" supports the submitted bill. The National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and representatives of the employers' organizations took part in the discussion. They find that the proposal made is untimely and populist. Minister Kalfin stressed that it is a good question of the amount of leave to agree upon the signing of collective agreements. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results of 3 votes, 1 vote, 1 vote and 12 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code No 554-01-180, tabled by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u5	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Before we open the debates, I inform you that no reports have been received from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On behalf of the importers, please, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! There is a new census of employers and trade unions participating in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The four-year term of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation expires in July and must be renewed. At the end of January, the procedure for recognition of representativeness must be initiated in order to meet the deadlines. Under the Labour Code, the procedure started six months before the expiry of the four-year period. The census is done to determine which of the organizations are large enough and significant enough to participate in the three-sided, in the management of the Health Insurance Fund, the National Insurance Institute and others. The new criteria that will determine the members of the Trilateral Council have previously been agreed between trade unions, employers and the government. There is a protocol signed by the four employers' organizations by both unions. With this Bill we introduce new requirements for representation of social partners at national level. First of all, a representative organisation of employees reduces the membership requirement from 75 thousand to 50 thousand. Returns the old requirement that existed from 1992 to 2012. One of the main reasons for reducing the number is a reduction in the average number of insured persons due to a number of economic and geopolitical reasons. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in 2014, the average number of insured persons was 2 million. 156,000. 339, and for the first 9 months of 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the 946 thousand. 339. We believe that the requirement of 50,000. members for representation of a trade union organisation at national level is objective and responds to the current state of the labour market. The other criteria relating to the representation of a trade union organisation of employees listed in the Labour Code shall remain unchanged. The second change relates to a change in the criteria regarding a representative organisation of employers at national level. It is recognised as one that has at least 1500 members instead of 750 so far and a total of not less than 50 thousand. workers and employees in all members of the employers' organisation, or 100,000. workers and employees employed under a contract of employment in all employers' organisations. With the new criteria we are proposing, the number of members of the employers' organization is increased from 750 to 1500. However, the requirement for these companies to give jobs to more than 10 people is dropped. This is important to note because the new requirement will enable the interests of micro and small enterprises to be represented by employers' organisations in social dialogue. The number of workers required by employers increased to 50 thousand. Souls. The other criteria for representation of employers' organisations at national level listed in the Labour Code remain unchanged. A change in requirements should not affect the current 4 employers' organisations represented at national level. This is the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria. The proposed changes create conditions for proportionality, maximum representativeness and balance of participants in the social dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Under the second bill, an importer's opinion. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u8	Dear colleagues, my proposal is for an increase in the annual paid leave from 20 to 25 days. My proposal is based on one of my only desires and aspirations. This is a reduction in stress in the workplace. Unfortunately, in recent years, the way of life, unemployment and the overall state of the state have led to enormous stress, which is also expressed in purely medical health problems. As a matter of fact, Bulgaria worldwide does not look bad as a number of paid vacations compared to Latin American countries, where there are about 10 -- 15 days, East Asia, where there are 5 - 10 days. Bulgaria looks good. At the same time, in the European Union, one definitely more social continent than all others, Bulgaria is about in the golden environment. There is a longer leave in the European Union in 11 countries. For most of them, I have not noticed any logic in their geographical location or in their material status. There are countries from the lower Echelon of the European Union, practically all Scandinavian countries. One example I can give you in Lithuania is 28 days leave, and in neighbouring Latvia and Estonia is 20 days. So each country has decided for itself. Austria is 25 days, France is 25 days, Malta is 25 days, for Scandinavian countries I mentioned. During the discussion in the Labour and Social Policy Committee, Minister Kalfin said there are other measures to reduce stress on the job, but at least I didn't notice them. I absolutely agree with the position of the CST that this measure is not sufficient. I therefore expect that the measure will be adopted and further measures which I have not proposed will be implemented. Thank you to the Syndicate "Support" which supported the measure. It is quite understandable that employers do not want to support it, as this means more responsibility for them to seek and find a way to compensate for missing workers in five days. I absolutely do not accept the opinion that they have expressed that this will automatically lead to a reduction in gross domestic product and the productivity of the economy. It's like saying that if you cut taxes, you have to lose revenue. Sometimes it's just the opposite. As you can see, this happened with the flat tax. I am convinced that increasing leave will actually lead to higher labour productivity and higher motivation for employees to work. This is a categorically left-wing measure, a firm measure aimed at improving the balance of life-work. As you can see, the very vote in the Commission is 3 votes for the Commission, 3 votes against the Commission and 12 votes abstentions. In fact, my call is for those who have abstentioned and who have no opinion on this to make an opinion during this discussion, to judge which side they are on, because it is something that people expect us to take a position on. I may not be right, I may be right, but what I'm asking you to do is take a stand! Let's see what the next steps we're going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. I'm opening the debate. The People's Representative Georgi Gokov was the first to sign up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will basically express an opinion on the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, where amendments and changes to the Labour Code are proposed in the requirements for recognition of the representativeness of the organizations of employees or, in other words, a change of art. Article 34 35 of the Labour Code, where this representation is regulated. At first, I supported the Bill, led by the reasons that the proposed amendments to some of the criteria for representation of trade unions and employers' organisations are necessary because we have a changed socio-economic environment, there have been structural changes in companies and businesses, there has been a change in demographics, there has been a change in demographic statistics that shows that there is a very dangerous demographic crisis with a rapidly melting population, with a rapidly ageing population due to low birth rates, an increased average population age and an increased emigration, including high unemployment. All this leads to a reduction in the number of employees, the number of insured, which, more simply put, reduces labour in Bulgaria. Another motive in favor of the need for changes. The Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutional amended requirements in 2011, which entered into force 2012. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts adopted by the Commission in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). Now the older provisions remain to be followed. I think the old regulations are not quite constitutional either, but no one has undertaken to challenge them in the Constitutional Court, I am referring to the requirement of representation of employers in the part of the companies of the employers' organization to have more than 10 employees. All this led me to believe that the establishment of the actual representation of both trade union and employers' organizations can only be done by changing the current criteria. And now I keep thinking that, but what's to stop me from supporting the Bill in this kind of way? Firstly, the urgency and non-compliance with deadlines and procedures. It is true that the last census and establishment of representation is by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 25 July 2012 and in the period of validity of a term of four years, signed in the Labour Code, it is necessary that on 25 July such a decision be issued, a new act of the Council of Ministers. The time limit for the census, once again signed in the Labour Code, is six months, which means that the census is due to begin on 25 January at the latest. Mr. Minister, I ask: I think that for a year and two or three months from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy there should have been a lot of rebroming the question before the social partners to decide to agree with each other, so that now there is no justification that they have only now agreed, and that is why we are now importing this bill. Just in passing, I would mention that in 2015, I think we've changed the Labour Code four times, and in recent months we've changed it twice. If there was an agreement between the social partners on these issues, it could be included in the changes and now everything would be fine. We are now in a hurry and breaking all the rules laid down in our Rules of Procedure for watching a bill or at least ignoring them to a large extent. I remember in the Labour and Social Policy Committee on Wednesday, when we looked at the two bills, one of the speakers very seriously defended the Law of the Council of Ministers, and on the other, the bill said that it did not meet the requirements, there was no impact assessment. Why are we measuring with two arches on all the bills that have been put in? I expected that when submitting this bill we would meet the deadlines and each parliamentary group would make consultations, discussion; experts from the Ministry will present an impact assessment of how this will affect the representation of trade unions and employers' organizations, that we will be presented with estimates whether there is any chance that anyone will drop out, is there any chance that any new trade union or employers' organization will enter the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Now on the move, we're changing the criteria, at the last possible moment, and it seems to me that we're doing it in someone's favor. I hope I'm wrong. I also think about how companies will react, I mean employers' organizations, and trade unions who would like to be represented at national level for such a short period of time and for changed criteria at the last moment. I also think that the proposal for changes should have belonged to the Council of Ministers and not to the MPs, it was also from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, because with this bill the government will state attitude towards the social partners and at all to the tripartite cooperation. That's convenient. People's representatives brought something...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u11	Including you, Mr. Gokov, no matter that you subsequently withdrew your signature, so your arguments are a little late, but it is your right to share them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u12	I continue to say that such a bill is necessary, but I am criticising it. My other motive, come up with an argument that made me withdraw my signature, as you remind me, Madam President, is the proposal to change the representation criterion of employers' organizations. Just before that, I would say that regarding the criterion of representation of trade unions, that is, the reduction of the requirement for members from 75 thousand to 50 thousand, there is a full consensus in our group, and we believe that in all groups, by listening to the speeches in the Commission. Another is, however, the question of the criteria for representation of employers' organisations. It seems to me that the proposed changes aim to preserve the status quo and, God forbid, to limit the number of employers' organisations recognised as representative at national level. If this is not the case, it certainly limits the possibility of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to be recognised as nationally represented and to have a vote on the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. There have been allegations by the defenders of the Bill that by removing the requirement for members of the employers' organization employers.. employees to be more than 10, a voice is given to these small and micro enterprises, but in my opinion this is not quite the case, and we all know that it is not quite the case. It is not the same attitude towards trade unions and employers' organisations as regards the criteria for representation. For one, we say that the workforce is reducing and reducing the criterion of the number of employees and employees belonging to the trade union by 33% from 75 thousand to 50 thousand. For others, we say: nothing that reduces labour, and we increase the criterion for the number of workers and employees working in companies belonging to employers' organizations by 333% s. more than three times, three and a half. I don't see any logic here unless there's some logic I'm missing. It is strange that there is a proposal at the point "b" of § 2, which has already been declared unconstitutional, once the requirement in the company to have 100 000 employees employed in the whole employers' organization as an alternative. Now we continue to push it as an alternative opportunity to recognise the national representativeness of the organizations. I don't see any logic here either. I'm not going any further. In the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee from BSP left Bulgaria voted abstention because we are aware that changes in the criteria for national representation and trade unions and employers are necessary, but not in this way and not in this way. Between the first and second votes, we will make proposals for amendments to § 2, where we will reduce the requirement for number of companies and for number of employees and employees in the company concerned. I think that this bill can go quite consensually and with full agreement from the Members of the National Assembly if we make a sensible proposal. For example, the number of companies is not 750, as it is now, not 1500, as it is proposed, but for example 1000 and the number of workers working all members of the organization, should not be increased three and a half times from 15 thousand so sharply to 50 thousand, but for example a figure such as 30 thousand, I think it will be possible to agree between the MPs in the vote. I very much hope that we will adopt such a bill to serve the interests of all three countries in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u13	Any lines to Mr. Gokov? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u14	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I have listened very carefully to you. To tell you the truth, I was a little confused that you were an importer, and then you withdrew your signature. Some of the changes to the Labour Code you support, others you say are controversial. With regard to your arguments that the rules, when they were established, the Council of Ministers had time for four years to make appropriate changes and not for these changes to be made in twelve to five. I also agree with the fact that, for the past year, four times we have changed the Labour Code, we have had enough time and opportunity to make these changes, and in no case should they be made so that for some of the participants, or potential participants, additional barriers and obstacles are introduced and they are part of the national presentation. What I have learned from the final of your speech is that you will support a change between first and second readings, with which those criteria that are for employers' organisations not to be increased but to remain at the level of what they have been up to now or more favourable in some cases. I therefore call on you to make a joint proposal. Mine will also be in that direction. In no case should we change the rules 12 to 5 in a direction where we create additional barriers and obstacles to participants who four years, I repeat, have been preparing for four years and have expected the rules to remain that way, and we are at the last moment to increase them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u15	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, honourable Members of Parliament! Mr. Tanev, I agree with what you say, and even my first motive to withdraw my signature from the Bill is that at the last moment we make such serious changes without having the opportunity to discuss them. Whether we will be able to keep the old criteria that are even older, because 2011, following a change in the Law of 1 January 2012, new requirements have been introduced, repealed by the Constitutional Court and remain the old requirements, which have been before the Law of 2011.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u17	Since 2010
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u18	So from before 2011, at least eight years ago, because four years ago is the mandate for the census. So they are obsolete and really there is a change in the socio-economic situation, and not to mention reducing labour with this immigration and so on, and surely the criteria need to be touched. I can't, what am I to forgive, but you had to pressure these social partners, as we press them on many other things, to solve their problems a year ago to make it clear what it is about. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] There is a need for changes to the criteria of this I think there are no two opinions on this issue. We will have to change them, Mr. Tanev, I agree, but we must find balance and reciprocity. When it comes to employers' organisations and the reduction by 33%, come on, at least the employers' organizations because of the criterion ten workers, is that we remove it So basically that's my ass, Mr. Tanev, that you're right, but I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u19	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin my speech, first, on Mr. Kadiev's bill. I don't know why no one's commenting on this bill. It's very nice for everyone to pretend to be nice, to be kind, to be merciful. We will not support Kadiev's Bill, which proposes an increase of five days of leave due to purely pragmatic economic considerations. In order to understand why we will not support him and Mr. Kadiev himself to understand because he did not stay to hear my arguments in the Commission, the answer is very simple, colleagues. This proposal is not only populist, this proposal is dangerous for the Bulgarian economy. Why? Five working days increase the vacation is one quarter of the working month. That is, assuming that the average salary for Bulgaria is currently 700 BGN. I will reduce them to 600 BGN, this means that these five working days are 150 BGN, which each employer should take out of his pocket. Assuming there's 3 million in the real sector. 200,000. employed workers, this number, this value makes up 4 billion. 800 million. BGN, which the business, whether it is small, medium, large and whatever it is, should take out of its pockets, meaning this means cutting about 150 thousand jobs. This is the purpose of this so-called "military amendment." In order for everyone to understand what is going to happen at first glance, you see: "Oooh, but we will give another five days off, fight the stress of workers and I do not know what, only, as it is said: "The path to hell is full of good intentions and this leads to hell. So far, I feel that I do not need to make any further arguments as to why this bill, presented in this way, should not be supported. Under the bill which we have tabled to amend art. Article 34 35 of the Labor Code. We will support this bill in the first vote because the argument is simple and clear. The Constitutional Court has called off the matter. 1 of para. 1 of art. 35. Besides, he canceled and so on. 5 which does not appear in the Bill and therefore we will submit further amendments and additions to the second vote, as these are two norms which practically remain art. 35 off the charts. When the Constitutional Court overturned one norm, it declared unconstitutional, there is no longer an existing norm. There are no operating rules, so there are no rules. That's why we signed it, I signed this bill on behalf of the Patriot Front Group, because there have to be rules. Moreover, not only should there be simple rules, but these rules allow for equality between trade unions and between employers' organisations. Here I open a large clamp for equality in the employers' organisations themselves, which have national representation. Small and medium-sized businesses are the backbone of every economy. It is for this reason that we have refined the texts that we are going to submit for a second vote as a change in order to allow small and medium-sized businesses to also have such national representativeness. In addition, we have refined the text and once again to the second level, because in the text so tabled, although we are looking at its philosophy, an imprecise is admitted today, I would say, which does not specify that employees under contract can be hired under contract and under art. 114a of the Labor Code. And that means people who've only been hired for one day. It is for this reason that we also refine this possibility for possible unclean intentions by certain people. Because it's practically possible, Mrs. Angelova, don't smile!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u21	He's smiling at me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u22	One dollar and fifty cents is worth a day's voucher for a one-day contract. If I want to be part of the Trilateral Council, it's no problem making 50 grand. lv. And buy these vouchers. And what's more, I have to respond to all the other points of representation in the local authorities, because they can be anywhere. So we've refined it. Once again, we will support the bill in the first vote, but the aim is to make it maximum working as a final text. Therefore, we will submit, I declare it here, from the stand, a proposal for a second reading of this Bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Kadyev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u24	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, the arguments I have heard are exactly the same as the employers' organizations. Of all the things I expected, you are the expressor of the employers' organizations here. It is absolutely untenable that this resulted in a reduction of 150,000 jobs. If it is so easy and so simple mathematics, then let's cut from 20 to 10 working days or to seven, as it is in Hong Kong, or to five, as it is in China and suddenly create a million jobs. If this leads to a 2% reduction in the economy, as these same employers' organizations say, to reduce the weekends again and this will still lead to some spectacular growth of 4.5 per cent, which awaits the prime minister anyway next year. This work is not simple mathematics. People should be stimulated to work. And they are stimulated in several ways when you defend their rights, when they see justice, when the court is doing all that we are doing here in this room. You're talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. Tomorrow we'll get to the Public Procurement Act, to art. 180, where I have made a proposal to be able to appeal public procurements, which are the so-called "invitational contracts" up to 270 thousand. BGN, which is not accepted. You can appeal a fine of 50 leva right now. As an individual, but as a firm, you can't appeal to a public contract. Here's your support for small and medium-sized businesses. And here, in this particular case, it's about supporting ordinary people. It's clear to me that employers won't want to support this thing. I own a company that employs 30 people myself. I also have to see how I can find their place when these people go on vacation and who will replace them. But I've paid the bill that more weekends means more motivation during the rest of the time of the year when they work. And that's not something to be decided by the beaches of Thailand, is it? It doesn't matter what the employers think. What matters is us here in this room, what we think. Of course, some would mind, of course, that some would be for. But I am absolutely convinced that this measure does not lead to Hell, because if it led to Hell, then we are in Heaven right now and I would be walking with wings here! But we're not in heaven, and that's why we're proposing these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u25	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u26	I am also surprised by Mr. Bajraktarov's statement as a representative of a parliamentary group, which should protect the interests of workers rather than employers. On this occasion, let me say that in 2014, the International Labour Organisation proposed that the work week be cut to four days, as experts of the International Organisation are of the opinion that this will increase employment and will benefit the environment, as it will dramatically reduce the use of vehicles. In addition, the experts of the Organization point out that the reduction of the working week will reduce, as Mr. Kadiev very appropriately claims, stress and disease and will increase productivity. The International Labour Organisation, Mr. Bajraktarov, shows that those who spend longer time in their offices - this is according to statistics, often mimic activity. Finally, the most important thing: in order to gain binding status, this proposal must become a convention. To become a convention, the more trade union organisations, the more countries support it, then the International Labour Organisation will adopt such a convention, which will not only have a recommended character. So once again I say, Mr. Bajraktarov: I am very surprised by your position, which is entirely in the interests of employers' organizations and not workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u27	Third line? A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I am very surprised that people who do not have an internship in real production talk about how a worker feels. However, I dare say that not only do I have a work experience in real production, I have also performed first-class work. But that's another topic. As to who thought how much of the workers. First, dear Mr. Enchev, don't read things like the devil reads the gospel. The International Labour Organisation offers a 4-day working week for one simple reason: that in a large part of the European countries a long time ago, so-called part-time working hours have been accepted. That's where the worker and the employee work by the hour. An hour! And if you don't know, he works 12-13 hours and in many cases on a day off. That's the real truth. But that's another topic. As far as Mr. Kadyev's statements are concerned. Mr. Kadiev, at the time of your membership and when you were born, when I was born, first, my mother used three months of motherhood, that is, in three months she had to give birth to me, prepare me for a nursery. [[Laughter]] And go to work on the fourth month. Yeah, it's funny to you, but those were the realities. I'm not gonna give any of those speeches to your chief who said that if you had to have kids, you'd have kids if I had to get into your rhetoric and your style of work. But again, those were the realities. Then the paid leave was 10 days, 12 days, 14 days, but the stress... Since this is my specialty, the worker's stress is not reduced by longer leave. It is reduced with many other tools. But, again, with your intentions, aim not to improve the working environment of a worker and employee. On the contrary! First, a serious blow to the labour market. That's what you're trying to do! And I say them as an economist. I haven't even read the employers' opinions. You don't have to have much economic knowledge to come to these elementary conclusions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. For the next speech is the word of the people representative Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u30	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic we are discussing today is related to social dialogue, and the social dialogue presented at national level within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Social dialogue is one of the serious instruments in industrial relations policy. From this point of view, we need to be sufficiently justified when proposing changes to the criteria for national representation of employers and trade unions. It is extremely important that we respect the principles of proportionality, maximum representativeness, balance of participants in social dialogue. It is very important that the procedure under the so-called census is implemented in the context of transparency and maximum publicity. This is most important, so as not to leave the delicate doubts that at the last moment, behind the back of small employers' organisations proposals are being made in order to be eliminated from social dialogue, such criteria will be introduced to make it difficult for small and medium-sized businesses to participate in the national trilateral dialogue. Naturally, there is another reason that leads to worry, and it is that all these changes are made at the last minute. Fellow Members, practice shows that this type of action is taking place before each census in order to regulate public relations in any way, as it is obvious that in the last 20 years the economic situation, the number of employed, the number of unemployed is changing dynamically, and this means that the criteria must follow these changes. I would also like to say a few words about the actual situation. You know that the criteria for national representation are regulated in art. Art. 34 36a of the Labor Code. There's something else. There is a regulation that is actually about the procedure for recognition of national representativeness. Under this regulation and in accordance with the texts of the Labour Code, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who is Chairman of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, is the one who, six months before the last decision of the Council of Ministers, announcing the nationally represented employers' and trade unions' organisations, issued a document which actually launched the census procedure. It is within four months that employers and trade unions must submit relevant documents to the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy then proposed to the Council of Ministers, which practically regulates national representation. In 2010, criteria were adopted which met the social and economic relations at that date. In 2012, they were changed. The Constitutional Court by its Decision No 7 of 19 June 2012 announced two of the criteria for employers' organizations in art. 35 against the Constitution. From then on, the census procedure was conducted according to the old criteria, the so-called "alternative criteria', which were from 2010. On these criteria, note, the requirements for employers were 750 members, each of these employers' organizations being obliged to have at least ten employees of course a work contract, or a total of not less than 15 thousand employees in all members of employers' organisations. Dear colleagues, what is now offered in art. 34 does not challenge any type of comments, there is no disagreement on this article. It is that trade unions are the ones for which, in relation to the changed situation in the labour market, it is proposed that their number be already 50 thousand instead of the current 75 thousand. With regard to employers' organisations, 1500 members and a total of not less than 50 thousand employees in all members of employers' organisations or 100,000 employees employed under a contract of employment in all members of employers' organisations shall be offered. Where are the worries? The concern is that these 1,500 members are many. Dear colleagues, there are 750,000 registered companies in Bulgaria. A large part of them is supposed to be out of business. But 1,500 companies that can work one and two each, in my opinion, is not a problem of any kind. The problematic text is related to these 50,000 workers and employees. In the various speeches here and in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, ideas have emerged that can optimize this number. There are comments to try to unite around a proposal that these workers and employees be not 50 thousand, but 30 thousand, for example. Of course, if there is an agreement in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, we will propose to the National Assembly that this figure be changed to 30 thousand. I am convinced that social dialogue is an extremely important thing. I am convinced that national representativeness and the criteria for national representation should in no way leave any doubts in the lack of transparency or in the lack of legitimacy of the decisions taken. I therefore call on us once again to think between first and reading, so that we do not create the feeling that we are isolating one or another employers' organization or that we are not striving with the proposals made to keep the status quo as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u31	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. For the next speech, the public representative Stefan Kenov and after him Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! It's very complicated. We are talking about two texts and about national representation of employers and trade unions, an organization representing workers, and an organisation representing employers, not business, but employers. How many workers does an organisation have to represent to be nationally representative? That's the argument. Everything else - micro and small enterprises manufactured in Bulgaria - we have branch organizations, let them protect the industry. We are talking here about organisations that protect workers and organisations that protect employers. How many workers does a trade union have to protect in order to be nationally representative? We say 50 grand. How many workers does an employers' organization have to represent who pay workers each month? $50,000 again. So let's not just talk in numbers, let's talk in percentages. I asked one of my colleagues from the parliamentary group how much the percentage should be, according to him, without being familiar with the case. He said about 10%. Well, it's not 10%! All parties and coalitions had to cross the 4-percent barrier to enter the National Assembly to have national representation. But it's not about 4% either. We are talking about According to the latest data from the NSI on insured persons, which by November is 2 million. 724 thousand. 195 people, 50,000. exactly 1.83 percent. The offer for an even smaller number than 30,000. is 1.1%. Can we say that one organisation is nationally representative when it represents only 1% of all workers in the country? It's the same for employers. Colleagues, I'm not inclined between first and second readings to take a step back. I am not opposed to the organisations of micro and small enterprises, I am not opposed to the organization.I am not opposed to the organization.I am not opposed to the organizations of micro and small enterprises, but they protect other interests. We must set a level of representativeness and it must be fair to both trade unions and employers. How can you negotiate with someone who weighs $30,000? workers, and you represent 200,000. workers? What kind of employers' organization would that be? I think that the representatives of the Bulgarian-made enterprises themselves said that the average employment in these enterprises was 1.5? At 1.5 and 1500 companies, the number becomes too small. With regard to the figure 1500 employers, out of 350 thousand. Working companies in Bulgaria this is 0.4%, which is still very low as representation. Please consider it. It is not a question of damaging small or micro-enterprises, it is not a question of harming the small or micro-enterprises, it is not a question of harming the small or micro-enterprises, it is not a question of harming the Bulgarian-made enterprises, but we must provide a clear criterion! 1.83 percent is still small. I think it should be more. Now, however, this is an understanding between trade unions and employers. Let's support what they've agreed on now. Fifty thousand. It's not that much. It's 1.83 percent. To colleagues who are willing to review this proposal between first and second readings, please consider it, but there is no 2%! What kind of representation will an organization have that's 1.2%? I don't think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Here's a line, dear Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kenov, purely mathematically subtracted, things make sense, only really and practically they don't. Why? Firstly, because when we talk about this representativeness, especially of employers' and industry organisations, it should be borne in mind that these organisations represent different activities, different specific areas of business. What you are proposing is the creation of a monopoly and the disposal of any different opinion in different areas. Only in tourism, if you go and see what is the segment of the business, there are more than 150 organizations. Do you want me to tell you something interesting? In the field of tourism there are over 380 national representative organizations. Over 350, and there's nothing wrong with that. As I can see, tourism has not broken down and has maintained much of the economy in Bulgaria. This is the point of having a more liberalised approach and entering, not as it is now - 3-4 organizations hold a monopoly, but to enter 6-8. What's wrong with that? By your logic, then the trade unions should be banned. [[Reply by National Representative Stefan Kenov.]] That's what you're implying. And they're 50,000. Members make up an even smaller number because the principle there is quite different. It is not only people employed in the real sector who are members of the trade union, but workers and employees of the budgetary sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kenov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, this is about representation of employers' and trade unions in social dialogue. This is not about representation of business, industry, industry, business organizations in the sector of Tourism and so on. It is about who represents employers in the social dialogue in the Republic of Bulgaria with the trade unions of labour rights, social rights of workers and so on. It is not about an organisation that protects the powers and rights of a particular type of business, it is not about another lobbying organisation. It is about who in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation will represent employers. I'll give you 50 grand. is small or large; whether 30 thousand. Is it a little bit, or is it a lot? Okay, if you disagree with the number 50,000, what's the motive for that 30,000? workers whose salaries are paid by the employers involved in this organisation is sufficiently representative?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u37	When you read the next three points, you'll see what they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u38	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u39	The next three points are right for representativeness in terms of industry, economic activities by the classificationr. What you were just talking about tourism has nothing to do with the rest of the points, because if you want tourism organisations to enter the trilateral dialogue, they will not meet the next points. I'm not commenting on that. At the moment, I believe that 50 thousand. is normal and less than 2% is quite sufficient for the organisation to be nationally representative. Thank you. I personally will not change my opinion, and in the second vote I will also insist that the number remains 50 thousand. faces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. For speech there is the national representative Velizar Enchev. After him the people representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! On the occasion of Mr. Kadiev's proposal, I would like to point out a very positive paradox. The proposal is made by an employer who has few workers - 10 in number, but an employer. Against this proposal are announced the employers' organizations in Bulgaria in the face of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, which, two weeks ago categorically stated, I would say with a rather sharp tone that it does not accept this proposal and calls on us, the MPs, to reject it. However, we are MPs, not representatives of the Bulgarian corporations, of the business, to say it directly to the Bulgarian capital. Therefore, after a little while, when we vote on Mr. Kadiev's proposal, bear in mind that we will vote on the interests of the Bulgarian capital, the interests of the Bulgarian workers, as strange as that word may sound before 2016. Since I like to be specific, I'll offer you statistics. 25 days rest as they should in Bulgaria as Mr. Kadiev suggests in Denmark, France, Finland and Luxembourg. Are they worse than us? Sweden, however, reduced the working day to six hours. If you don't know, it happened last year. 28 days in Britain and Russia. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Dear colleagues, I see Mr. Ademov here. Maybe he'll replicate me. I hope that Mr. Ademov, as a doctor who best knows what stress in the workplace means, should be President of the Commission to support Mr. Kadiev's proposal. Once again, I think that this positive paradox is an employer to offer something that is not in the interests of employers, but of workers, should be supported. That's exactly what the vote will show in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. For a replica, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Enchev, extending the paid annual leave by five days is only one of the tools for combating stress in the workplace. There are many other instruments that in modern social policy are united in the concept of corporate social responsibility. What does that mean? This means that there must be such ergonomics in the workplace to protect against stress situations, there must be such an organization of the working process as to protect against stressful situations. There must be such a type of social services that, provided, enable workers and employees to avoid stressful situations in relation to their daily lives. So a single instrument, such as the extension of paid leave, cannot overcome stress situations in the workplace. It is a commitment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the National Assembly as a whole for a complex of tools that in some way try to combat stress in the workplace. Because only with the extension of the paid annual leave by five days will we hardly achieve the objectives that the biller sets with this project. There is no way with an instrument to solve this extremely serious problem of modern economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Velchev, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u45	Mr. President, honourable Members, I could not help but react to this example, which was given that Mr. Kadiev was an employer. Apparently, as much as you were a worker once as he was an employer. It's like saying that a guy who owns photovoltaics and gets a few million dollars a month is an employer because there are three guards at the photovoltaic park. We're not talking about lying workers here. Ask Mr. Kadiev how many people and what are the sister-in-law, daughter-in-law and so on. He's an employer, and there's a few million years of revenue from the sale of electricity. Is that an employer for you? A power trader who transfers several documents a month and gets millions? That's what your employer's system is like. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u46	Is there a third line? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u47	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u48	Let's get this procedure over with. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u49	I'm gonna do a doppelganger, but I'm gonna talk about double standards. For the second time this Parliament has rejected my proposal for a item on the agenda for reducing the Easter and Christmas holidays of the Bulgarian MPs. Christmas vacation, which is four times longer than vacation, or more precisely the weekends of the Bulgarian citizens with a decision of the government at the beginning of each year. We, namely, you, not me, but you, in this part of the hall, in the middle and right, reject my proposals, but do not want to accept Mr. Kadiev's proposal for an increase by only five days of Bulgarian citizens' leave to Bulgarian workers. You, who do not even wish to enter the Chamber this proposal of mine, will tell me who is the employer and who is not!? I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament under rapid procedure and will again suggest that I have proposed it in writing to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or rather the leave, Easter and Christmas vacation of the Bulgarian MPs to become, Mr. Velchev, as of all Bulgarian citizens. You are with nothing more than the regular Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian doctor, the Bulgarian teacher, and the Bulgarian police officer, for whom you want to take away social rights, for which you gave up during the negotiations in the police protests. So I very much ask the National Assembly, when we talk about double standards, to bear in mind that the National Assembly is an example of double standards: for us privileges we rest three weeks, almost a month at Christmas, we rest on Easter holidays twice as much as Bulgarian citizens, all of August we rest, honourable MPs, and you do not want to give the Bulgarian worker five more days. It is a shame and a disgrace to the Bulgarian Parliament or at least to those MPs who will reject my proposal, which I will put back in writing to rest at Christmas and Easter as the regular Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u50	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u51	Procedure? Here you go. Wait, the personal explanation is before the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev. [[Relations between MPs from GERB and Velizar Enchev.]] Colleagues, order in the court! Listen to what Mr. Kadyev will share with us. [[Relations between the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Velizar Enchev.]] We're listening, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u52	Dear Mr. Velchev, I hope that when you speak from this tribune, you will tell truths, not lies. [[The lines between the MPs from GERB and Velizar Enchev continue.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u53	Colleagues, the situation in this room does not imply normal working conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u54	Mrs. Tsacheva doesn't suggest normal working conditions because Mr. Velchev behaved extremely vulgarly... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u55	Please take your grades, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u56	...said a bunch of lies and now I'm going to disprove those lies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u57	Mr. Kadiev, you have a personal explanation procedure. Tell me what you've been affected with.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u58	Mr. Velchev called me a piece of shit. There are witnesses. [[Replying in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u59	Mrs. Tsacheva, if Mr. Velchev really called Mr. Enchev a piece of shit, please remove him from the room because a few days ago a member of parliament was swearing here and you didn't remove him and you suspended me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u60	It wasn't me. [[Replying in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u61	Mr. Velchev, I own a company that employs thirty people. She's into macroeconomic analysis. The readers or clients of this company were, for example, Simeon Saxe-Coburg's son when he worked for Limman Brothers in London, Ivan Kostov's daughter, when he worked for UniCredit in Milan, and a bunch of other people. The International Monetary Fund is subscribed, 200 people read from there. In this company there is macroeconomic potential, which, I guarantee you, is not even in BNB. These people I keep with my teeth and claws not to leave Bulgaria. Four of them have already gone to work for the European Commission. Is that what you want? Those people running away? I have created some conditions for 30-35-year-old men and women to stay here, to give birth to children in Bulgaria, to pay taxes in Bulgaria because there are already more than 20 babies born in the company since it works. And I'm proud of that thing. And you telling me about some photovoltaics I don't have at all, about some guards, and what kind of employer was I?! Are you going to give me an assessment of what kind of employer I am? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Every month we pay salaries, every month we pay insurance. You've got the NRA, you've got the DANS, you've got what you want. Come, check and prove my photovoltaics. And I didn't hide behind offshore property or behind anything else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Ten seconds I gave you more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u63	To give me this crappy kind of speech and that kind of manipulation...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u64	Please no characteristics of the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u65	It's not your style. I never let myself be manipulated by this guy. Never!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u66	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u68	Lies are not spoken in this room. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u69	Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I have a proposal for the procedure. If I may, one remark to you, if you can direct the discussion to go on the subject and not to listen... I do not know on what grounds MPs advertise their business from the platform of the National Assembly, is this not contrary to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u71	I'll deal with...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u72	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u73	The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u74	Madam President, I would like to draw attention to you in the manner of keeping you from letting this tribune lie lightly and spit on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll tell you why. Because here he is allowing a former employee of State Security to manipulate society as he has manipulated his career at all times. I want to tell you from here and the media to reflect that the MPs have an annual leave of 32 or 33 days. That's one. The second thing is that the holidays at Christmas and Easter are fixed by Law and the total sum of working days is 32, which is much less than teachers, than other civil servants. The other thing is that Members of the National Assembly are not entitled to unpaid leave. The third important thing is that they do not choose when to rest. They rest when the National Assembly on certain fixed days is on rest. Abuse of this topic, especially by people who work in parliament, thus undermining the prestige of the most authentic institution in the country, is unfair, at least unfair. But I'm not surprised when I say unfairly because honor from this MP here I never expected. He doesn't have one. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u75	It's a personal explanation! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u76	I didn't mention a name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u77	Mr. Velchev, the Rules give me the opportunity to take an attitude within two minutes. [[crowd cheering and chirping]] to what you said. It is far too simplistic to align the status of a Member of the National Assembly with the status of citizens working on employment or employment. The work of the National Assembly, and in particular of the Members of the National Assembly, is not fixed from the beginning and end of the working day, as is customary for all workers, regardless of, I repeat, in employment or in service. Members of the National Assembly shall work on their electoral areas on days formally declared as vacations. The fact that there are MPs who do not visit their districts these days do not work and do not have commitments to the citizens of whom they are elected does not mean that it is mechanically transferred to the full composition of the National Assembly. It is for this reason that I did not consider it necessary to enter into a discussion with an opinion which clearly does not reflect the status of the MP, is not aware of it and mechanically aligns this status as a laborer. [[Applause from GERB.]] We continue with Mr. Rumen Hristov's statement. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u78	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not support the proposal to increase the paid annual leave by 5 days, because this is another surprise, another gift for the Bulgarian business. I'm just going to give a few examples. For years, the contract for the ratio of the payment of insurance 60:40 to become 50:50 is not implemented '60 is for the employer, 40 is for the worker. For years the first three days of hospital pay the employer would have been removed, not removed. This year we have a new surprise weekend tax. Let's think that in this whole chain, besides the worker, there are employers. What do you suggest we kill the Bulgarian business? Who will be an employer, who will provide jobs for Bulgarian citizens? The Bulgarian business is walking, it is at the beginning of its development. Don't kill him because he's needed. With regard to the second part of the discussion, the representativeness. Let us not forget that we currently have four, I repeat, four legitimate employers' organizations. If you can't choose which one to join, opening the door, reducing, as there is an offer to reduce the number of employees employed from 50 to 30, this criterion will be easily covered by new organizations. What, send Mr. Kalfin 7, 8, 10 organizations? Do you ask him how to conduct dialogues with such organizations? I'll give you an example from the agriculture industry. Sixty-two organizations in the system of livestock production "How is Mrs. Taneva's Minister of Agriculture and Food? Let's focus on the 50/ 1500 criterion, given that companies with one or two employees are allowed to form these 1500 companies. This is not a high criterion............................... is not a high criterion.................................................. As Mr. Kenov says, since there is an agreement between employers and trade unions, it is also 50 in the case of one, let us not lower the threshold, because we open the door and many employers' organizations will be counted, each with equal claims and requirements for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. And this dialogue, called the..... dialogue, will not be easy at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u79	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mikov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! There's a discussion going on here. Each one of his sand towers. The big question to which there is no answer in plenary is: why did the government sleep, dear Deputy Prime Minister, discuss this issue earlier? Why did you sleep it off? Since 2012, did the Constitutional Court not know, have you not heard, misunderstood or had to make any arrangements with the current trade unions and employers' organizations? You owe this answer to the plenary. Because they're going out, some for business, some for representation. There is a tragic finding that today we are discussing this topic "that today existing trade unions and employers' organizations are not attractive enough and citizens, workers, businesses do not see in them the protection of their interests. Three million people working, we're going to drop the criteria for membership in a national representation syndicate. The other workers, what does that mean, they don't want to join unions? What's that supposed to mean? This is a very powerful, heavy signal for the trade union function how it is realized in Bulgaria. I am sure that if you make one incision, you will see that the trade unions in the majority are recruiting trade union members from state companies and that this is the cruel truth in Bulgaria in the 21st century! This will continue to generate processes. And that you are talking that there is a formal dialogue between these supposedly representative organizations that they are filming on television that they are doing lavish celebrations, feel significant, this will continue to tear the fabric of the society between those who are the real working enterprises of small, medium-sized ones; among the workers who say: sindicates are sitting up, participating in dialogues with the minister, participating in European projects, talking in fact about tens of millions that pass through these structures, but this does not make them authentic representatives of the interests that they should represent. These are big questions I believe the government has a view of them. Maybe he'll share it with us sometime. We will not support this Bill because it is being tabled at the last moment and under the mathematical dispute.. 10 thousand, 20 thousand, 30 thousand, 15 thousand, 75 thousand, 50 thousand, the big question is: how many are these organizations performing their function? Then there will be no tension in society if they are representative. If they are formally representative, which we strive to achieve, it will continue to smolder that energy from below, to which the state and society do not have an answer. The other issue of leave, the amendments to the Labour Code related to the increase of leave. Mr. Kadiev, where will this labor productivity take funds for another five days' leave? We would support him otherwise. Even now, I understand that as the minimum wage increases, some employers make maneuvers and put pressure on the workforce. These are all questions to which, of course, the government should answer. So it sounds good not 5 days, 10 days, 30 days to give more leave! However, are there indications of increased productivity if it is at the cost of cuts or a reduction in wages? One thing is in a company that consults such children of noble parents; another is in a company, as you said, God forbid; another is in a trading company that produces goods of a shell in which they are wasted to the extreme, in which the pressure on the workforce is cruel and in which the pressure of the contracting entities from Europe is cruel! And in companies that register here, they charge the VAT, they shut down the company and they don't pay the workers! These are huge problems concerning tens, hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens! And then it doesn't matter if his leave is 20, 30, 50, 100 days. These are big questions if you really want to solve them, solve them. We will not support these bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u81	- What's the line? Mr. Kadyev, you have time for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u82	How much time do they have?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u83	In seconds, I can report to you who has what time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u84	A line to Mr. Christov. I absolutely disagree that this measure is killing business. On the contrary, as I said before, this is not simple mathematics. I believe that this measure, in fact, ultimately leads to a reduction in workplace stress and higher labour productivity. If she killed the business, then there wouldn't be any business in France, in Scandinavian countries, in Malta, in Iceland, or in all those countries that have 25, 28 days each. Mr. Mikov, the easiest way to marginalize a bill is to say: not five seven, fifteen, thirty days to give. That's no argument at all. I expected a left-wing party like BSP to support a categorically left-wing measure. If you pay attention, countries in the European Union that have such a measure are social countries. We're going that way, right? Here everyone says, well, it's not enough. There's one tool, you need more tools. Well, give me those tools! I've given one, give me five more! I agree. I know one isn't enough. That's all I've come up with. That's enough for me. Give me the rest of you! But let's not say no, because there's no one left, give me this one and we'll cross it off. If there are no others, we'll use one tool. That's the way it is. I guarantee you that people today are not interested in the representation of trade unions, employers, the incision of trade unions, as Mr. Mikov said, but are we going to give them five more days' leave to feel better, or are we not going to give them five more days' leave? And it's not true that business can't make up for this thing. Each of them will find a way to compensate him. And not by reducing wages with optimizing work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u85	Colleagues, I owe you one explanation. Mr. Kadiev asked for the floor for a reply to Mr. Hristov during his speech. I diverted his request to consult the Secretariat in view of the time available to independent MPs. Turns out he had time, which is why I gave him the opportunity to make a line to Mr. Mikov. However, he also turned to Mr. Hristov because, indeed, at the moment when he wanted the line, I diverted him from it. If Mr. Christov wants, he can answer. Second line to Mr. Mikov? A hole, Mr. Mikov? Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u86	I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u87	To extend the group's time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u88	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the moment, behind the mathematics of representativeness we are discussing, it actually shines the ugly picture of the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian society. Because what we were supposed to discuss today is not a reduction in representativeness, but there should be an increase, because if we have an economy, if our country is managed, if it is so stable, if it is fifth, as some say, in stability, we will not discuss a reduction, we will not discuss whether a particular union can enter as representative or not, but we will talk exactly in the opposite direction. But mathematics said it, Mrs. Angelova, when she said that from over two million insured, we have already fallen below two million somewhere by about 300,000 has decreased the number of insured. Today, instead of talking about how and how to fix things and have an economy, and having people to work to keep people here, to have jobs, to keep young people from leaving us, we are dealing with some small mathematics. That's really funny, and people won't forgive us because representation is the last thing they care about. They're interested in a salary, they're interested in a job, they're interested in a perspective that you guys don't give them today. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u89	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I'm also going to do a procedure other than a line, because I really feel like there are people who, first of all, don't know the Labour Code, second of all, don't even bother to read. Because if you had read the Labour Code, both one and the other, the one offering may want to give his employees and workers and 100 days of unpaid leave. Somalia's been resting, by the way, for a year and no problem. Colleagues, if you had read the Labour Code, if you had read Article. 52 of this Labour Code...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u91	Not to all colleagues, but to Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u92	Yes, and to Mr. Ermenkov you would, first of all, be aware that this representation is extremely important because, according to art. 52, these organisations must hold talks and negotiations on the conclusion of collective agreements. More than 35% of collective agreements provide for leave over 25 days. This is why it is important to adopt these texts, to vote. Otherwise, we leave this system without this important rule, without protecting workers, employees and whatever it is, and it's not just art. 52. There are several other members who are referring to this national representation. This isn't a problem from yesterday. He's from 2002, and a series of governments are responsible for not deciding. Sequence! I am also making a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the adoption and voting of the text. I think we should limit the speeches now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u93	Second line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, with all due respect to you, I have a feeling you didn't understand what I said. I have not downplayed the need for representation and the fact that the parties to the collective agreements are thus defined. What I wanted to say, however, is that the mathematics we are currently dealing with is shameful. That's what I said. Nothing more. And since I have come out here, I would like to ask another question that I am very interested in: how do we account for a reduction in unemployment, while also taking into account a reduction in social security? Or is the only explanation for this is that the Bulgarian people are shrinking within their borders or naturally because they are dying or because they are leaving us?! That's why I took the floor to tell you that the numbers are very interesting. But let us set ourselves with the same zeal to protect the economy of the state, so that tomorrow, when we talk about representativeness, not to reduce it, but to increase it because the number of employed is growing because the number of insured is increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u95	Are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? There is no reason why I will not put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's procedural proposal for an extension of time. We have until 11:00. The word is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would very briefly like to make a statement which I would not have done if it had not been for the last speakers. At the moment, mathematics, numbers or alabalistics are not discussed with the criteria for representation. We are currently discussing which organisations and what criteria will be representative. The National Council for Tripartite Cooperation is an institution that has it not only in Bulgaria, there is it in Europe, there is it in European countries. It is found in all developed democratic societies. What Mr. Mikov just said and denied in practice the representation of trade unions and employers and said that they do not represent anyone and have no role is an absolutely nihilistic attitude towards normal institutions in the country. We're talking, one more time, about an institution. The proposal with these numbers came from employers and trade unions. Why now? Ask them! It is absolutely not true that they have so far been illegitimate following the Constitutional Court's judgment No 7, which has been cited. They're absolutely legit. Social dialogue is held where with good results, where with not so good results, but they are representative organizations. The criteria set out are minimal. They can have a lot more members. If someone wants to bet them a million, a million and a half now, between the two readings, Mr. Mikov, who showed up in the hall, could offer two million members to have a syndicate to represent him by his understandings. But let's not underestimate the institutions! I would like to point out that the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation is an institution that exists in developed democratic countries. And, by the way, at European level, when trade unions and employers agree on a subject, usually the state agrees with them and this is a rule that is also imposed in democratic countries. Obviously, some colleagues have yet to learn about these topics. Thank you. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u97	The debate is closed. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mikov? [[Relations of MP Mihail Mikov.]] We closed the debate before you entered the room. [[Loud noise, lines and calls from BSP LB.]] Okay, come and share what you felt affected with, because I don't think that mentioning you in any way affected you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u98	He was mentioned before he entered the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u99	With my personal explanation, I will shed one more light on what I have said and try to explain it so that the Minister understands it. Minister, don't you understand that it was the government that was supposed to bring the discussion into the National Assembly in a timely manner? And it's not a formal question of you sub-departmental employers' and trade unions hiring, it's about thinking as a minister, and that's what I said how these organizations really become attractive to workers in trade union rights protection, how really employers' organizations represent the interests of all employers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u100	This is out of the scope of the bill, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u101	My personal explanation is once again slow and argumentative to explain what this is about, because obviously the minister sits, sits, sits, and only sits, and finally takes some attitude. That's not how it works! What is the government's representation policy? To make the criteria so they're comfortable and torturing employers and trade unions. It's policy. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u102	The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 554-01-180, tabled by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on 9 November 2015. The Commission does not support the adoption of the bill in the first vote. We vote. Vote 148 MPs: 16 against 66, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Labour Code, No 654-01-2, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission proposes to be supported by a first vote. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 151 MPs: 113 against 17, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u103	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be reduced to three days between the first and second reading of the newly adopted Law amending the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u104	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 141 MPs: 123 against 12, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. That concludes the legislative part of today's plenary session. At 11:00 we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u105	Honourable Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 15-21 January 2016 An inquiry was received from the National Representative Ivan Penkov Ivanov to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, on the account of the programming period 2007-2013 and a vision for the programming period 2014-2020 of the operational programmes of the European Union in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 29 January 2016. A question was received from the MP Slavi Binev to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the policy regarding dealing with the problems of the natural gas market in the Republic of Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 29 January 2016. A question has been received from the National Representative Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the policy and strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the Development of the Sector Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from MP Metodi Andreev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the peoples representatives Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question of the two MPs; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the two MPs; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the two MPs who have written answers from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev, Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative of Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question by the National Representative Nikolay Belemezov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev of the questioning of Belemezov, absent colleague; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Dimitar Dubov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Kostadin Makov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov. We're going to answer the questions. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, together with colleagues Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, have asked Minister Moskov about the implementation of the mandatory immunization calendar. You can see that in recent days there have been various speculations in the media about the topic of vaccines that are used to implement the compulsory immunization of Bulgarian children. In this regard, Madam President, the inclusion of Minister Moskov on the agenda of parliamentary control today is formal, as the time will not reach him, so I propose that he be withdrawn immediately after Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, as I remind you, the point of parliamentary control is to give an answer to relevant questions for society. There's hardly any topic discussed these days from this topic, so hiding Minister Moskov, hiding him, you're not helping him, I don't think you're helping you that way either.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u107	Dear Mr. Boychev, your proposal is inadmissible. The order of parliamentary control is determined on the principle of rotation with a view to the participation of ministers in the cabinet of Prime Minister Borisov. The subject is commented on by the Chairman's Council. On behalf of your parliamentary group, a proposal was made by Minister Lilyana Pavlova to answer first. Meet the transcript, it's public, so your request is inadmissible. The first question to Mrs. Petkova, Minister of Energy, from the National Representative Yavor Haytov, concerning investments in We're listening, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Chimko "Vratsa" is one of the construction companies within the Vratsa municipality and the entire Vratsa region in the recent past. Thousands of Bulgarian citizens worked there. An amazing product was created and production was sold in many countries outside Bulgaria. At this time, meeting more and more people and citizens in the area, they inform me that there is an increased interest in purchasing the company's assets, but I stress that we are talking about the company as a functioning company and not about its separate parts which cannot function, i.e. the company that produces a final product of chemical fertilisers. I made a few meetings and found out that there was a bankruptcy procedure through a trade union, with the procedure being negotiations with a potential buyer. And my question to you is: what stage is the legal proceedings? Are you aware of any investor interest? What are you doing as the principal of the company in order to preserve the assets so that it can be sold in a way that it can function and most importantly create jobs in Northwestern Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u109	For an answer Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u110	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of its response, it may be important to clarify that the Minister of Energy does not have legally established powers over the activities of the company Chimko. The initial sale of shares of the company started in 1996 and ended in 2004, i.e. since then the State had no participation in the company. By decision of 6 June 2012 of the Sofia Court of Appeal, the company was declared bankrupt, its activity was terminated and a trade union was appointed. As it is known, Bulgargaz.EAD and the National Electricity Company are the biggest lenders of Chimko, respectively, by 60.4% or 52 million. 562,000. BGN, and 23.5% or 20 million 527 thousand. lv. of the company's general obligations. After the bankruptcy of the company, the two largest creditors incurred bankruptcy costs of the amount as follows: and NEK EAD, respectively costs of BGN 163 826 In the so far announced several tenders for the sale of the company did not appear candidates, therefore the trade union, after authorisation of the insolvency court, entered into an assessment and sale of assets as a whole owned by 718 of the Commercial Law. Visible by the supported by the Ministry of Economy newsletter under art. 717a, para. 2 of the Commercial Law on 23 December 2015 was announced sale in accordance with art. 718 of the Commercial Law of the company's property as a whole, scheduled for 20 January 2016. A candidate appeared at the tender held on 20 January 2016 and after negotiations he was chosen as a buyer. I hope that with the realization of this sale part of the production of Chimko will be restored and jobs will be provided, respectively, which are extremely important for the region of Northwestern Bulgaria. On the other hand, I hope, respectively, that the companies of the energy sector, the National Electricity Company and the Bulgarian Power Company, will be able to recover some of their claims, because, as it became clear, they are also the biggest creditors of the company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u111	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, dear Minister. I have asked this question more than a month ago and you have actually informed us today that the procedure has ended, that is, my question to you is extremely relevant at this time. There's nothing left for me to do but wish, just like the thousands of fortune-tellers, for the enterprise to start working and functioning with its full volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Will you use a hole, Mrs. Petkova? No. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u114	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The statement on behalf of our parliamentary group is about the unsubstantiated reindustrialization of the Republic of Bulgaria. On two consecutive days, two very important facts became known. One is the final loss by the state of the opportunity to take action for partial recovery of the "Hymko" "Vratsa," and the very next day the already long-awaited Russian party for the official suspension of the South Stream project. These two events, possibly coincident almost in time, are very indicative of the lack of economic prospects in Bulgaria. I do not ignore the fact that some outsourcing companies are developing here, which the President of the Republic boasts about, that there are some investments in individual sectors, already significantly lower than in industrial and other industries, but Bulgaria is increasingly losing economic prospects. And now the state is led to the absurd situation when it is the main creditor in a bankrupt enterprise, the main demandr who has more than 20 million to receive. BGN that it cannot take these assets and assess whether to effectively develop and restore economic activity or to sell these residual assets and finally be profitable. Now the best that remains is to expect or pray to some private investor to do something to have production to have jobs. In fact, the big question here is that citizens in their daily depression and lack of perspective, worried by various manifestations that affect people's lives, health or honor, sporadically mobilize, express their discontent and protest, but there is no longer a chance to gather public energy in order to bring together several hundred or several thousand people to protect what their lives, livelihoods and incomes depend on for years and, I would say, for decades to come. This is today's Bulgarian stability, the stability of despair, that such despair cannot lead to anything other than an explosion. When and in what way is a separate issue? something that we do not want to happen when Bulgaria in this increasingly uncertain world, in this increasingly difficult situation in the European Union and in the Balkans is placed to the highest degree of uncertainty for its future, as it has not been since the end of the 19th century. These are the Bulgarian realities and we unfortunately do not see the change of governance after management to solve these issues. They only accumulate, only deepen, only change some of the players, and those who are permanent are about the same benefits are for them, the profits are for them, and the bills are paid by the other Bulgarian citizens. That is why we need to realise that public energy and political representation are needed to outline a new model that lays down the development of the economic, social security of the people and confidence that the law can be implemented, because all that is going on in the judiciary, the pressure it is put on, as if it is further motivated by no one to defend the interests of the citizens, the interests of the real business and to respect all who abuse power in one way or another, regardless of what nature. These are the big questions, and that is why our disappointment is so strong, because this is not about whose political account these liabilities will be included in. It is that we, as a people, country and country, are increasingly losing perspective and the state, rather than becoming an active regulator and participant in economic life, continues to monitor and detect the processes. How is it possible for small businessmen with their activities to put pressure on the drug market, on fuel and lower prices?! Do you know that there are countries in Europe that deal with this thing themselves? Not only as regulation, including price regulation, something which in Bulgaria is already considered to be some kind of heresy, but mainly through the market participation of the state in sensitive sectors, where there are obviously monopolies and cartels, because not much money is needed in these most profitable activities, but also making the biggest profits at the expense of the majority of people, to intervene the state, municipalities and through their economic structures to show the Bulgarian citizens what really is market, which are acceptable prices and how a competitive environment can be developed. Here we go again, another speaker to... I just have to be quiet because the qualifications I'm going to give you in advance, I don't think it's appropriate for the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u115	No, don't do it, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u116	But let's leave the cheap clacking. I turn with concern, no matter what positions everyone will look at this issue, but it is real. Therefore, if we do not start looking for solutions to these problems, Bulgarian citizens will seek out politicians and parties that can do so, we will continue to sink into the lack of perspective, despair and risks for the future of our country. This is not a question for a day, for weeks or even months. This is Bulgaria's big unsolved task for the model, for the construction of economic and social development. After a quarter of a century of degradation and degradation, it's time to look for a path of development. I turn to all the political forces that want to be really national, really concerned about development, which will not be highly susceptible to external, corporate and other influences, to make sure that they give people confidence, to ask for support for such actions, because without them we are doomed to lag behind. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and partials from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u117	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! There is really no qualification to give, at least not substantial, since your attitude towards both young people and those who want to work for their country is obvious. It's cynical, it's devious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u119	What's a joke? Madam President, make a note to him. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u120	So in such a disparaging way to treat your fellow Members, it is simply beyond any framework, outside any political parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u121	Colleagues, I ask you to clarify our words and conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u122	In any situation, your political weakness is visible. It is expressed in various acts, in which it shows absolute vanity, an absolute lack of ideas, an absolute lack of argumentation. When you have nothing to do, with those with whom you parted and who pushed your government, you now embraced yourself again to bring another vote of mistrust that we know will end. But since we are talking in numbers and numbers to be specific and correct, we can talk a little bit about Budget 2016 and what happened to it. When we now have billions of surpluses, in the previous Budget 2015, when you went bankrupt banks and when the state was in absolute deficit, when the state was threatened to enter sanctions procedures, when its state stopped the EU funds, now you are going out and talking, and teaching with mentoring tone what should be done in the field of fiscal and fiscal, it is not only insolent, it is cynical! The revenue for the previous year has been increased by 2 billion in the budget, 5 billion is DOO, 2.7 billion is more for municipalities. Then, when you made fictional programs with 500 million and when you gave 6 million for Sofia Municipality, compared to hundreds of thousands for several small municipalities with several inhabitants, and when you claimed that this was very social, and only when a year later this same BSP crashed into small municipalities, what to talk about more?! The assessment is visible, the evaluation is there! More than 3% growth in the economy last year, 4.5% growth in the economy this year. When did BSP and when could a left-wing government in Bulgaria boast about this? When? [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] The BSP government, when you ruled between 2005 and 2009, when there was a huge surplus and spent more than a billion dollars a month, where did that money go? What did you use them for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u123	About pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u124	What did you invest them in? In infrastructure, in reforms? What pensions?! Fifty million gave the government for Christmas, another 50 million gave for Easter. Who pays billions for an increase in pensions after 2009? The same increase that you voted with the last act of the Council of Ministers of the Government of Stanishev 2009. Who paid that money? Where did the money from the surpluses of the Triple Coalition go?! Where did they go? What did you give them up for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u125	Where did the cashier's reserve go?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u126	We give them to visible results. We're giving it up for investment in the economy. These results are now seeing a decrease in unemployment, an increase in wages of 3.6%, a growth in pensions in the next three years, with effect from 1 July each year under the established Swiss rule, something you didn't do and with which, for four years after 2009, you destroyed the state. Over 1 billion surplus at the end of April last year. The same period for 2014 I will only give a comparison of 864 million deficit! Revenues and refunds under Operational Programmes are taking place in the governments of GERB and in the governments of BSP not?! I'll give you an answer. Just revenue from operational programs in the governments dominated by BSP, there is no. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Just for April last year, the European Commission has reimbursed Bulgaria almost 700 million to the state budget. The figures for you cannot be understood because you are not working with the European Union. You work with North Korea, you work with Syria, you send emissaries and emissaries there. At the end of October, the surplus decreased, but continued to be an excess, not 2 billion deficit, as for 2014. October. Countering smuggling. Smuggling down 4.7%. Between 220 and 250 million more than contraband. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] It's not funny, it's happy that you're smiling at that fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u127	Why do you take loans with so much income?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u128	Colleagues, we're not in debate mode!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u129	In the second half of 2015, cigarette smuggling decreased by 22%. The industry itself notes it. The industry itself says that the purchase of tobacco has increased due to the reduction of smuggling. How did the revenue agencies work during the mandate of the Triple Coalition? What was happening then? Where were the revenue from the Customs Agency, NRA? Where did they go? They weren't there because smuggling wasn't a priority for the government to fight it. Bulgaria's data are close to the European Union average for revenue from sales of tobacco products between 10 and 11%. If we concentrate on specific areas, more money for health care, more money for education, more money for infrastructure, reduced deficit in the Health Insurance Fund. Dr. Raynov just passed through here. He can probably confirm that. Reduced three times deficit in the NHIF in its part of medicines.. 129 million more for health care, 150 million more for education. Where were these funds when he was managing the social party and when he wanted to invest in key areas for the state when boasting about the social benefits he gave to the population? What were the steps with which the social benefits of the population were increased during the three coalitions of BSP, DPS and attack? What were the funds then invested in these key sectors for the state? Eighty million more bets on teachers' salaries because you comment that no funds were given for education, that people's work was not encouraged. Financing the quality of higher education and collecting more money through quality. Something that is incomprehensible to you, because quality, investment in young people obviously for BSP is something that needs to be mocked, and young people are marginalized social groups to which you should treat with insufficient respect, replicate them and in no way give voice to those who tomorrow will produce your own pensions. Increase minimum wage. I am continuing with the social measures of your so-called right-wing government. Minimum wage size 420 BGN with effect from 1 January 2016 Two hundred and eighty-six plus 40-50 million increase in pensions for Christmas 2014 for Easter 2015, for Christmas 1 million and 275 thousand people received Christmas and Easter supplements for last year. This is 36,000 pensioners more, given raising the poverty threshold compared to 2014. That is, by 36,000 we have increased the pensioners who have received additional money. Again, this right-wing government that you condemn in its social measures. [[Applause from GERB.]] How can I continue in the field of social, infrastructure, health, education, defence, the Ministry of Interior or what more?! Where are BSP's successes? The successes of BSP are in the zero-winned municipalities, the successes of BSP are in another scandal in one municipality, which I will not now name, but in which the management of BSP went to check how things happen, where children and minors were subject to other interferences. So from this tribune to wave a finger, to learn and to speak when you are obviously failed, when in the last ten years you are in no way a representation for socially wronged groups of people, when you fail exactly where you should be the strongest, then you have no right to teach and speak! Then you just have to stand by and watch how a real human-oriented policy is made, learn, and when you have mistakes, recognize them, come out with a clear conscience and say: "Yes, I have sinned, but you can't make fun of what you yourself can't do. Because it's BSP, it's hollow and empty demagogy, which has nothing more to offer as politics, as measures, and as action, it starts to lie, to make up, to look through the red glasses, and I hope, at least, it doesn't believe itself. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. People's representative Emil Raynov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, in the mode of statements, there is no debate, therefore there is no possibility for personal explanations. [[Loud noise in BSP LB.]] I won't give you the floor for a personal explanation. You can take the procedure in the manner of conduct. Okay, the way you're leading it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u131	Thank you, Madam President. I take procedure in the manner of conduct, so as not to speak frank lies from the stands of this highest place! Honest lies about healthcare, in which every Bulgarian sees what happens every day. And when we were talking about the lies, how much GERB had done in the field of health, I would ask a question that I asked him in the second year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u132	What do you disagree with in the manner of conduct? Turn to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u133	I don't agree with the lies you've allowed to claim...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u134	Before that, he was lying to Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u135	The health care from which you stole, you took away a billion and four hundred million of Bulgarian taxpayers, stole them and considered it a great success. Honest lies! You're lying from morning to night!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u136	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. You take a procedure and you abuse the right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u137	Apropo, you look like a Hungarian Prime Minister I don't want you to be remembered in history with this thing. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u138	There is a question from the National Representative Antony Trenchev on the information and clarification campaign for the upcoming liberalisation of the energy market. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u139	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm sorry to lower the pathos level in the room, but I still have to ask Mrs. Minister the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u140	I'll thank you for that, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u141	Dear Minister, my question is very specific on a very specific topic that excites all Bulgarian citizens. After the announcement of the planned full liberalisation of the energy market in Bulgaria in the public space, a thesis was created that the price of electricity for domestic consumers will be increased as a result of the free energy market. Generally, it goes back to the principles of liberalisation, but still you from the air, I think on the Bulgarian National Radio, you said it was possible to increase the price due to the planned liberalisation. According to some of the information that appeared, the increase in the price of electricity will be between 30 and 35% for the final consumer. All this creates conditions for tension in society. In this regard, I believe that it is quite legitimate for the final consumer to be well informed about the meaning, benefits and risks of liberalisation, because I think that much of the consumers do not understand it. My question is this: is the Ministry of Energy planning an active and mass media, informational, explanatory campaign to inform end users of the meaning, benefits and risks of increasing the price of electricity due to the upcoming liberalisation of the energy market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u142	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Trenchev, first of all, I would like to thank you for the extremely up-to-date question you are asking. It is really very important and it concerns absolutely all Bulgarian citizens. The transition to full liberalisation of the electricity market in the country is a process that has started with some delay in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is one of the last member states of the European Union, which has not completely liberalized its electricity market. For the team of the Ministry of Energy it is undoubtedly clear that a process that will put the energy sector in a radically different situation is accompanied by many question marks for consumers. This provides for the need for an active and detailed explanatory campaign to clarify all issues and to protect people from possible fears that can prevent successful transition to full market liberalisation. With full market liberalisation, two main objectives will be achieved: firstly, the price of electricity will be determined on a market basis by demand and supply and, secondly, consumers will be able to choose the electricity supplier themselves, which in turn will lead to competition between traders, respectively the offers offered by them. During the past year the Ministry of Energy initiated and held the first part of the consumer awareness campaign. Joint teams from the Ministry of Energy, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Bulgarian Energy Holding, the Electricity System Operator, the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange and the electricity distribution companies visited all 28 district centres in the country to explain to the stakeholders what is coming on the electricity market this year. The explanatory meetings were open to citizens and consumer organisations and were held in the buildings of the respective regional administrations. During the meetings, the specialists answered numerous questions: what does the free electricity market mean for consumers; when can the supplier be changed; should a fee be paid for this; is it mandatory, is there a risk that the consumer will remain powerless when changing the supplier; how does the energy exchange operate and many other issues? Of course, this is only the beginning of the explanatory campaign. At the end of April, the World Bank report on the choice of a liberalisation model is to be finalised. Once we have clarity about the model, we will initiate the second stage of the explanatory campaign, which will contain details relating to the process of full liberalisation of the electricity market. In this process, the issue of protecting vulnerable consumers is extremely important. Taking into account the importance of this topic, the Ministry of Energy together with the Directorate General of the European Commission has formed a joint working group which, by the end of April, must define the concept of a vulnerable user, define the criteria for identifying these persons and develop measures for their protection. All these extremely important issues must and will undoubtedly be brought to the attention of the Bulgarian consumers through the implementation of a explanatory campaign which the Ministry of Energy will initiate and conduct. Our aim is to reach a wide range of users with maximum detail and full information on their questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u144	The line, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u145	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. You are right in the part where you said that liberalisation in Bulgaria is late. But she's not only late, she's terribly late. One of the biggest problems of the past 25 years is unclear pricing, and I am really very happy that we will finally have a market, we will have a market and perhaps lighten the process of pricing electricity in Bulgaria. In terms of the explanatory campaign. What you have said is nice and correct, but from the meetings that you initiate and to which citizens must come, they must be proactive on their part in the part where they should come. In my opinion, the Ministry's efforts, the KEWRC's efforts, all those involved in this process, should be how you get to them. Even if they themselves, so to speak, do not wish to display this proactivity to inform themselves, you must reach every single home and every citizen, because the potential for social restlessness, for violating the mantra, which is so important for GERB, is present. In my opinion, you should even get to the passive people who haven't shown proactivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u146	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u147	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Trenchev! First of all, I will allow myself to agree with you that the process of full liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria was delayed quite a long time. This, of course, is one of the main reasons for the financial imbalances formed in the system, which are one of the general issues that we need to resolve. What I can say with joy is that the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange is already a fact. Since January 19th, the stock exchange has been operating in real time with real-time transactions, there are producers, buyers of electricity. The electricity market in Bulgaria is already a fact. Of course, it has yet to develop, we still have a very long way to go, but the first and most important step, which must precede the full liberalisation of the market, has been taken. The other very important topic is for vulnerable consumers, for the people the state really needs to take care of. We need to see who they are, determine the criteria by which to identify them and identify the measures for their protection. What you say about the need for this information to reach every Bulgarian citizen, I fully agree with you. That's how it's gonna be, believe me. As I have already pointed out, we need to have clarity about the model for market liberalisation, which will come true after the World Bank report, with which an institution we have concluded a contract with, precisely, to develop the model for the liberalised market. When all the components of this model are clear, when the whole scheme is clear, the whole process that we have to walk is both consumers and producers and suppliers of electricity, then this information will be made available to all Bulgarian citizens and we will take care of it and that will be the case for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u148	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There is a question from the MP Yavor Haytov concerning accidents in the electricity distribution and transmission system and a power outage of more than 500 thousand. households. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u149	Thank you, Madam President! I hope that this second question of mine will not rekindle this lively discussion that arose after the first one. Get to the point. Dear Minister, honourable Members, during the blitzcontrol on 13 January this year I asked Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev: what measures does the state take to ensure the supply of electricity to the people in Northwestern Bulgaria? My question was that, due to the low temperatures and the ice rain on 6 February this year, more than 15 thousand subscribers from over 30 settlements in Montana, Vratsa, Lovech and Pleven remained without electricity in the freezing morning of January 6th and 7th? Mr. Donchev assured me that the government is doing everything necessary to ensure the supply of electricity and that the state will mobilise all its resources and forces to prevent such crises. A few days after my question, on January 17th and 18th, about 500,000. Bulgarian households from all over the country were again powerless, with some power cuts for more than 36 hours. Thus they remained cold and dark in the most hated days of the year. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: what action does the state take to prevent such accidents in any complication of the weather situation? Do you keep track of how electricity distribution companies implement their contracts and are they investing the means to prevent those facilities that supply electricity to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u150	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, as you rightly pointed out, the heavy winter environment that arose in the period 17 January 2016 in a number of districts of the country left without electricity multiple settlements and subscribers. The duty teams of the companies of the Ministry of Energy system were processing and sending the necessary information about the progress of the situation. For better coordination of repair and reconstruction activities in the three ERPs, crisis headquarters were formed and operated, which were in constant contact with local and central authorities. In short, the development of the situation was as follows. On 17 January 2016, without electricity on the territory of the three electricity distribution companies were a total of 1144 settlements and 339 thousand. 775 subscribers. On 18 January 2016, a total of 183 settlements and 35 thousand were held at 17.30 hours without a call from the three ERPs. 416 subscribers. On January 19.. according to information of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria, at the beginning of the day without power were 31 settlements in the territory of CEZ with 4862 subscribers, for which normal electricity was restored by the end of the day. That is, around 16:00 on 19 January 2016 the situation was already normalized and there were no settlements without electricity. In order to address the crisis situation of the three power distribution enterprises and the power system operator, more than 1500 teams with over 400 pieces of equipment were working. Thanks to the adequate and timely response in less than 72 hours, the situation throughout the country has been contained. I would like to take this opportunity and thank these teams who have been working on managing the crisis situation. Here is also the point that we have worked extremely well and in full coordination with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Road Infrastructure Agency, the Ministry of Interior, with the local authorities, with the regional governors, so we were able to react really quickly and adequately and manage the situation. The crisis situation thus created clearly shows that the preventive measures taken in 2015 were adequate and timely. I would just like to remind you that at the beginning of March 2015 there was once again a very difficult situation with faults on the power lines, thousands of people were left powerless, but immediately after that the necessary actions were taken by the executive and the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works made a change in the regulation relating to the servers of the energy sites. This, of course, has enabled us to take action on the expansion of the servers of the energy sites. Another very important measure that we have taken is that in September and October, the Ministry of Energy formed teams that carried out inspections of the three electricity distribution companies and the Electricity System Operator, in order to check their readiness for the autumn-winter season. What we have established on the ground has shown that the three ERPs and the Power System Operator have much better preparation for the upcoming autumn-winter season. I believe that this reaction, which has shown both the three ERPs, both the ESOs and the Ministry of Energy at this time, shows indeed that the measures that have been taken have been adequate and have resulted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u152	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I cannot in any way agree with what you have said that the measures taken are sufficient and that the problems are resolved in a normal way. You yourself mentioned in your reply that over 1,700 settlements were left without electricity supply in these most hated days of the year. I believe that your control function must be strengthened and monitored whether these necessary actions are indeed being carried out by the electricity distribution companies for investment and for the normal supply of electricity to citizens. I join the thanks of the teams who helped solve these problems. These people have really been in place almost 24 hours, and you yourself were in my electoral area, so the effort is there, but the control is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u154	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, the settlements without electricity in the period 17 January 19 were 1144 and 339 thousand. subscribers were powerless, but that's not really the point. I absolutely agree with you that control is a very important measure in this situation and indeed the state, the Ministry of Energy and colleagues from other departments that are involved in this process, we are doing everything we need to do so that this control is really strengthened. At present, teams of the Ministry of Energy and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory carry out checks in the three electricity distribution companies regarding the reporting period for the electricity used by citizens and, accordingly, the periodicity in which invoices for electricity bills are to be drawn up. You know that under the statutory order this period cannot be longer than 31 days. So her colleagues are in place right now, even I'm going from here to EVN territory to see how this process is going. Believe me, we are doing everything possible for the state to be in its place and exercise its control powers. Of course, there is always something to be desired, but we are working actively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u156	Minister Petkova, and I thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski, who will answer the first question of Mr. Slavi Binev about the formation of cartels in the sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Recently, the Prime Minister said that there are indications of the existence of cartel agreements in the sector, which means that serious attention should be paid to this issue, as it is your boss. Or does that mean that the subject needs to be raised, or that it needs to be covered, or that someone needs to be reminded?! I don't know exactly. The Commission for Protection of Competition is tasked with monitoring cartel agreements, but it is still a key duty of the Minister to direct, coordinate and control economic policy. Isn't fuel trading one of the most important areas for our economy, Mr. Minister? The caring agreements lead to an artificial increase in fuel prices, which are already very high against the backdrop of the Bulgarian standard. I believe that the Ministry of Economy should show greater determination in fighting cartels, because inaction only leads to worsening of the problem. I would like to ask you: what measures will the Ministry of Economy take in order to reduce the risk of cartels occurring, or their preservation, in the sectors of the economy, as well as in other sectors of the economy? How will artificial price increases be prevented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u158	Thank you, Mr. Binev. For an answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u159	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! As already in the previous question, I had the opportunity to clarify, in market terms, the prices of goods and services are determined by a free interaction between supply and demand. The Ministry of Economy does not legally have the functions of regulator in the country's fuel market. The market is free and prices are set on a market basis. Under the legislation in force in the Republic of Bulgaria, market surveillance functions and action to prevent the creation of conditions for the creation of prohibited agreements, cartels and abuses of a monopoly or dominant position are solely within the Commission's powers to protect competition. According to the Law on Protection of Competition, the KPC is the body which establishes such infringements as well as those under art. Art. 101, Art. 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That's the law. If you have another vision, you can always exercise your constitutional right to legislative initiative. The competence of the Ministry of Economy in terms of the fuel market includes the following powers: carrying out metrological control of measuring instruments; initial and follow-up checks and metrology expertise of measuring instruments; ensuring the passage of measurement in the country by calibration, as well as part of the functions of the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and carrying out quality control of liquid fuels; technical supervision of increased risk facilities; metrology control and supervision. These are part of the functions of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. In other words, the Ministry of Economy, via BIM and DAMT, takes care of the two agencies that I mentioned above, to protect consumers' interests with regard to the correct reporting of the fuel charged and the quality of the fuels offered to the liquid fuel outlets. We do not have the competence to regulate the price market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u160	Line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u161	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I am exercising exactly my constitutional right to ask questions that the public is concerned about right now. I really want you to go out and repeat that you have no relation to the fuel trade in Bulgaria and that your Ministry has absolutely no commitments to this trade. In fact, this is part of Bulgaria's economic problems, because you know very well that every industry and economy in the country depends to a large extent on energy and fuel prices. In fact, they are one of the main components that form the price of a product outside labour. So I'm going to ask you to come out and say that you have absolutely nothing to do with the country's fuel trade. It would be nice to keep in mind what is happening in Varna. You know very well that there are ways to prove that prices are really extremely high and artificially high.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u162	A hole, Mr. Lukarsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, you have obviously not listened to me carefully. I didn't say I had nothing to do with the fuel market. I told you about the quality and quantity we are pouring into our tanks, yes, the Ministry of Economy through the two agencies through the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology and the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision is relevant. The Ministry of Economy has no legal capacity to influence fuel market prices. Not on the market of fuels, but only on prices, Mr. Binev. Be careful of what I say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u164	Next is a question of the MP Slavi Binev about the failed participation of the Republic of Bulgaria at the World Real Estate Expo Munich 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u165	Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr Minister! In relation to the first question, since I do not have the opportunity to answer you, I do not have any additional time to answer you, I would like to say that I have not actually heard the Ministry or you raise a question that interests the public anyway. You behave like a Pharisee or a Sadokai who looks at letters and numbers without staring at the meaning of what the Ministry is doing. You must have a position on this. No one has said you have to control the prices or you have a right or you have no right. But no one has heard you have an opinion on this matter that excites the public! So hiding only behind the figures or this or that committee is not serious and is not in the priorities and position of a minister who has to hit the table and tell where the problems are. That's what I think. [[Reply from Minister Bozidar Lukarski.]] You can try to iron me, but I must tell you that this irony is on the back of the Bulgarian people. You know that. About my second question. A long time ago, a unique opportunity was wasted to secure a new market for Bulgarian agricultural production with the failed participation in Expo Milan 2015.................................. Judging by what has been done and in relation to Expo Munich 2015, the Ministry of Economy does not seem to be pursuing a targeted policy to promote the Bulgarian economic potential. Isn't that important for our economic development, Minister? At the World Exhibition was observed extremely mediocre Bulgarian presence, and the services offered by us had no connection with the real estate sphere. I believe that the Ministry should learn the necessary lessons, avoid new failures and ultimately not expose ourselves to potential foreign investors, Mr. Minister. In this context, I ask you whether the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the World Real Estate Expo Munich 2015 has been prepared? What are the results and what is your assessment of the Bulgarian presentation? What measures will the Ministry of Economy take to attract foreign investment and economic partners?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u166	For an answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the national participation of Bulgarian companies at an exhibition abroad is organized by the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises, which is at the Ministry of Economy. This is happening under the Project "Promoting the internationalization of Bulgarian enterprises" which is funded under the Operational Program "Development of the Competitiveness of the Bulgarian Economy 2007 " 2013.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Participants shall be conducted on the basis of an established indicative programme by pre-approved sectors. In this particular case, the Expo Real Estate, which you are talking about, as an exhibition of real estate is outside the scope of the indicative programme, which does not include the real estate sector, respectively by the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, is not initiated preparation for the participation of Bulgarian companies with a national stand. Since 2013 Bulgarian companies have participated with a common stand at this international exhibition, it is organized by the official representation of the Panair Munich for Bulgaria at the German-Bulgarian Industrial and Trade Chamber. In 2015 Bulgaria participated again with a common stand at the exhibition organized by the representative of the Fair Munich and projects are presented by three Bulgarian investment companies in the real estate field. According to information from the representativeship of the Bulgarian companies have given a positive assessment of their participation in the exhibition. The official representation of the Panair Munich for Bulgaria plans to organize a joint Bulgarian stand and the next edition of the Expo Realist from 4 to 6 October this year. With regard to the second part of your question about what is being done to attract foreign investment and economic partners, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Economy is taking a number of active measures to improve the environment by further easing the regulatory framework and administrative burden. We are conducting a parallel foreign-economic policy aimed at expanding the market presence, supporting the Bulgarian producers and exporters and improving the conditions for access to foreign markets. Our aim is to support the restructuring of Bulgarian exports to medium and high-tech through the priority development of export-oriented sectors that provide high added value, increased competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. In relation to investment, this is an important priority for us, and carrying out a proactive investment policy aimed at promoting investment in sectors with high added value and innovative enterprises, which is your next question. To expand the existing trade and economic potential, discover new market niches and find investment partners work actively the services for trade and economic affairs abroad, which promote Bulgaria as an attractive business and investment destination and provide timely and complete support for attracting investors. As an assessment, I will finally say that for last year, we have foreign direct investments by one third more than we had for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u168	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Mr. Binev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u169	Minister, I don't know what your business success is, but one of the most important things in every business is to see the financial meaning of every action. And when participating in an exhibition, in a future presentation, it is extremely important to see what money has been spent and what has happened through them. The effectiveness of these funds.. I give you one advice, not for another, but because I really feel that you need advice, and that you need the right people, you have to do everything possible to do an analysis after all of what I ask you: how much money has been spent on expomeria and what has happened, even indirectly, by carrying out these exposures or participating in these exposures. Something very important, too. It must be understood that this is also a presentation of the state to see whether just some money has been spent in order to benefit partner companies that have not done anything and have compromised Bulgaria or have really received some effect. That's my question. It's clear that's how it has been so far. How are we gonna do it from here on out? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u170	Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, please really follow carefully what I answer to you. The State of Expo Real is not spending anything. It is simply that the activities related to real estate do not fall within the powers of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises under the Indicative Programme and therefore it has not participated financially in the organization. And what money has been spent on other companies...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u172	Thank you. The next question from the National Representative Slavi Penchev Binev is about support for the creation and development of innovative enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u173	Not only does the state spend money, Mr. Minister, but spending money at all, whether from European funds or any other, make sense only when they are an investment and are used, and not just as an absorption, which is the word in Bulgaria to be used. The money must be spent like this, whether they come from the outside, whether they are a gift or anything else, so as to bring additional funds, the state can develop the endeavours in which it participates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u174	Mr. Binev, go to your second question, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u175	That's my third question, Mr. Chairman. According to the latest Eurostat data, Bulgaria is among the last places in innovation and innovative enterprises in the European Union, which will hardly surprise anyone. Against the backdrop of the observed trend for a steady decline in this regard, the Ministry of Economy has been idle. Innovation is particularly important for the development of our economy, but a number of barriers are being observed. One of them is an absolute lack of vision and a targeted state policy for the creation and development of innovative enterprises. I share the view that unsatisfactory results speak of the need for a change in policies in the Ministry and a detailed introduction to good foreign and European practices. In addition, it is necessary to set them as short-term and long-term objectives towards the Ministry, as well as specific measures for the implementation of these objectives. I ask you: what will the Ministry of Economy do to support the creation and development of innovation enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria? Will you present to the National Assembly and to the people the plan outlined by your office?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u176	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the vision, objectives and measures for the development of innovations, including for innovative enterprises in Bulgaria, are reflected in the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization, the so-called ISIS, of the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 - 2020. The strategy was adopted by Decision No 857 of 3 November 2015 of the Council of Ministers. It has been developed in accordance with the European Commission's management and is an integrated document of innovation policy. The strategy is not regional or sectoral, but a horizontal document giving direction and tools in accordance with the National Reform Programme. The document sets out the following priority thematic areas in the relevant product and technological niches, services and industries: First, information and communication technologies. Second, mechatronics and clean technology. Thirdly, industries for healthy living and biotechnology. Fourth, new technologies, creative, creative and creative industries. The main financial instrument for the implementation of the objectives set under this Strategy is in fact the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and under Axis 1 "Technical development and innovation" are 21 per cent of the budget of this programme or 295 million. Euros. The first procedure on this axis has already been announced with a budget of 50 million. Euros. By the beginning of April, the undertakings concerned may submit their project proposals for support for innovation deployment. By the end of January, the procedure for developing innovations and start-ups with a budget of 10 million is also to be announced. Euros. In general, the specific innovative activities to be financed are: developing cooperation for innovation between business and scientific environments, including internationalisation of the innovation process, creating opportunities for enterprises and leading European academic research cooperation groups, which will lead to the creation and development of innovation capacity and sharing of resources to develop and implement innovative processes and products, protection and transfer of copyright and licensing rights, commercialisation of research results. Secondly, support for innovation in enterprises, including the development and deployment of new products, processes and business models. This will be implemented through investment support for advisory and support services for the development and deployment of innovations. Third, support for the development of an environment for innovation and research infrastructure, which includes the creation, development and accreditation of thematically focused laboratories, necessary to meet the needs of the business of certification, standardization, testing and technical verification, testing and demonstration of concepts, experimental models and useful models, prototypes and other similar infrastructure in support of the innovation activities of enterprises, including support for technology transfer offices, technology centres, completion, development and upgrade of the project. As a result of the implementation of the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization, Bulgaria is expected to improve its investment performance, which you are talking about, to increase its competitiveness to address societal challenges in the field of demographics, sustainable development and intellectual capital. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u179	Everything that the Ministry intends to do cannot happen unless it introduces ideas, laws or proposals for laws by which the tax will ease the people who develop R&D as it is all over the world. Research and development is always part of the big companies. The budgets of some of the major companies around the world are slightly smaller than the budget of Bulgaria, which is only due to the fact that there is a tax policy introduced by these ministries, which are responsible and overseeing these processes. All that you have read is written correctly. I do not know if it is understandable for people who have listened to you, but it can only happen when there are tax benefits for companies and companies developing innovations. This cannot happen only on the basis of the absorption of European funds. That's not gonna happen! Therefore, without your active intervention, without the understanding of your Ministry on this matter, this will not happen. The budgets for R&D around the world are much larger, hundreds larger than the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is the only one for Bulgaria at the moment. Every big company should have a similar structure if it really wants to move forward and develop rather than catch up or integrate technology from foreign countries. I hope indeed, I wish you specifically for this thing to push your strength, to understand the meaning of what I am offering you, and to do everything possible to make it happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u180	Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, I agree with you, the idea of tax relief for R&D enterprises is good and not new. However, unfortunately, we are members of the European Union and European legislation on this issue, how can I say, it is somewhat not liberal, as is the legislation of the United States, for example, with regard to these tax reliefs. The European Commission's view on this idea of ours, which was discussed in the Commission, was negative in relation to the fact that once euro funds were granted to promote innovation and, a second time, State aid, expressed in tax reliefs for start up and R&D enterprises and others, which under European law would not be possible. Unfortunately, that's where we got this negative answer. Thank you. Otherwise, it's your idea, and it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev about the fate of the sports hall. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u183	Thank you, dear President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At first glance, Minister Lukarski, as Minister of Economy, perhaps the field of this matter is more within the competence of the Minister of Sports. You know that the Sports Hall, which is located in the Military Complex at 4 km, with a decision of the Council of Ministers from 2012 due to a decline in the need of the Ministry of Defence was declared private state property and was transferred, imported into the capital of Sofia Tech Park. You are the principal of Sofia Tech Park JSC, so I ask you this question. I know that you are an athlete, you can also be involved with a sports problem. This room has been operating for maybe more than 40 years. In it are held children-youth trainings and activities of volleyball club CSKA. Several hundred Bulgarian children from Sofia daily use it. The state of the room is extremely frustrating. There hasn't been any funds invested there, perhaps for decades. There's no heating. In 2013, by order of the minister of the service, it was planned to be demolished in view of the realization of the Sofia Tech Park. There was a lot of noise on this project then. Your predecessors made a commitment, the hall remained and a temporary solution was found to extend the contract of CSKA's volleyball club. You've successfully rehabilitated Tech Park. I mean, this room is out of the scope of the project. I think that nothing interferes with the mutual existence of this beautiful Tech Park and its filling with content and people, and to have a closed room next to it. I know there are planned and open sports facilities in Tech Park. Nothing prevents us from looking for an opportunity, and that is why my question to you is: do you see on your part and your team the opportunity to make acceptable conditions for the conduct of this type of training activities of Bulgarian children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u184	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, first of all I would like to thank you for the question and for focusing our attention on this topic. It is my personal opinion that this is precisely the role of the MP and the purpose of parliamentary control is precisely this. Thanks to your question and your concern, it has become clear that in recent years state ownership has even been used unregulated for positive social purposes. In particular, this property has been used in recent years by the children's youth school of the volleyball club CSKA without any legal basis that is in line with the Bulgarian legislation, unfortunately. As you rightly note, by Decision No 894 of 29 October 2012 of the Council of Ministers is taken away from the Ministry of Defence because of the need for property of public state property, and the same property is declared private state property and imported as a non-cash contribution to the capital of Sofia Tech Park. In the implementation of the project there is a problem with the planned building No 6, namely this sports hall, owned by Sofia Tech Park. It should be noted that the building was part of a military unit and was not originally intended for use as a sports hall. The building was used by the children's-youth school of volleyball club CSKA, as for a temporary solution to the problem twice by the Sofia Tech Parks AD was established a temporary free right to use the building by the volleyball club CSKA, which expired on 31 December 2015. Given that children and adolescents are training and competing in the building in connection with the expiry of the contract, talks were held between representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Sofia Tech Park, which discussed the possibilities for storing building No 6 and preserving its purpose as a sports hall. Despite the fact that Sofia Tech Park is a company registered under the Commercial Law, a General Assembly of Shareholders was called to decide on the solution of this important social issue, which is essential for the development of Bulgarian sport and for the preparation of future Bulgarian athletes. The General Assembly of the Shareholders of Sofia Tech Park (JSC) held on 21 December 2015 decided to establish a new right to use the property until 31 December 2016 in favour of the children-youth school of the volleyball club CSKA. I note that during this period the management of the Sofia Tech Park has the vision for renovation, renovation of the building, but at the same time all responsible institutions should make efforts to find a multiannual solution to the problem. On the one hand, Sofia Tech Park is a trading company that should benefit from its own assets, on the other hand, we should support the Bulgarian sport on legally regulated approaches. In view of this, I am counting on all responsible institutions - the National Assembly, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Federation of Volleyball and Sofia Municipality - to join efforts in favor of the future development of volleyball, which will represent Bulgaria at a global level. In other words, my appeal to you and to my colleague Mr. Kralev, Minister of Sport, is to gather and resolve this issue long-term and legally regulated because the extension of the free use term until the end of this year is a solution, but it is temporary. Thanks again for bringing our attention to the matter. I have the good will to help children from the junior school and to legally resolve the matter with the gym for a much longer and more serious time range. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Boychev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your response shows that good things can happen in this Chamber and in the Bulgarian Parliament. Really volleyball is now our most successful collective sport. You know, not a small part of our national contestants trained in this very hall. We can't develop this sport without a good junior school. I want to tell you that the conditions for closed rooms, including in Sofia, are not at all good and are quite limited. I know it's a trading company, and it's not part of his mission as a target. I appreciate the commitment you're making as political will. On my part, I see the rationality of looking for Sofia Municipality as well. I will make a conversation with Sofia Municipality to be engaged, and with the Volleyball Federation we will look for solutions. My request is that you try to do it along the lines of various public renovation programs that are currently running. To try to apply at least the material condition of the building, the hall to be significantly improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u188	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. Thank you. There is a question from the MP Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov about the results and perspectives of the investment forum held in Shanghai. Mr. Belemezov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u189	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the period between 22 and 27 November, the fourth meeting of the Heads of Government of China and the Central and Eastern European countries was held with the participation of the Prime Minister and some of the ministers in the Bulgarian government. During the official visit was also held the Investment Forum "Invest in Bulgaria" which you attended, Mr. Minister, as head of the portfolio economic ministry. As part of this delegation, your responsibilities were related to the presentation of investment opportunities in Bulgaria by the Chinese business. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: is there real positive results at the moment for the Bulgarian business in Shanghai, China, Investment Forum? What are the prospects for attracting direct Chinese investments in Bulgaria after this event and its accompanying meetings? In short, Minister, what will be the effect for the Bulgarian business? What will be the specific strategy of the Economic Ministry so that we can somehow deepen these bilateral relations and turn them into an effective and working foreign trade process between the two countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u190	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, as you noted in November last year in town. Shanghai, People's Republic of China, a conference was held in Bulgaria. Expanse in Europe.Project Promotion of the Advantages for Investing in Bulgaria. The event was attended by senior state representatives from Bulgaria and China, politicians, representatives of Chinese companies in management positions, different representatives of business circles. The Bulgarian government delegation was led by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and was attended by the Deputy Prime Minister of European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev and seven other fellow ministers. The investment forum took part: a Bulgarian business delegation of 36 companies, who were given opportunities to expand contacts for new partnerships in China, while more than 100 companies with an interest in doing business in Bulgaria and with long-term investment intentions towards Bulgaria were represented on the Chinese side. The business and investment opportunities discussed are in the following areas: - information and communication technologies and software industry, including high technologies; - investments in manufacturing and machine building; - investment in food and agriculture; - tourism and balneotherapy. In essence, the concrete results are related to the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation between "Lodis Invest" and the Chinese company "Heilongjiang Wondersun Dairy Co. Ltd.".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A Memorandum of Cooperation was also signed between the National Company Industrial Zones and the Chinese company Nantong Sumu Biological Technology. Specific projects were also discussed during the visit to China and the following bilateral agreements for cooperation and realization of investment projects were signed as a result: - Kaliya Bulgarian Rose (Bulgarian) Ltd. with the Chinese "Shiajazong" Sentay Garden Construction Engineering Co.; - framework agreement for marketing and distribution of Bulgarian yogurt, signed by the Bulgarian "Lodis Invest" and Chinese "Tianjin Sino-Finnish" Deary Foods Research and Training Center Company, and the intention is the two companies to invest in the production of yogurt for the Chinese market with Bulgarian leaven. The two companies are expected to invest around 30 million. EUR in the enterprise. In addition, there is an interest in a Chinese company from Hebei Province for buying a share of Bulgarian company from Karlovo, which is in the business with rose oil. Another important point of the visit is the stated readiness of China to finance and build on its own territory centers for promotion of Bulgaria and Bulgarian business. The centers will present the opportunities for investment and business in Bulgaria, as well as the demand for trade partners between companies from both countries. They will also help attract Chinese tourists in our country. In conclusion, I can say that the objective that we had set with the implementation of the investment forum in Shanghai, namely building a positive image of Bulgaria as an investment destination and increasing the country's recognizability among Chinese investors, has been achieved. This was also the purpose of forums of this type of presentation of the investment climate and the opportunities of the country. I conclude with the fact that the Bulgarian government will continue to focus on its foreign economic policy on expanding trade and industrial relations with China. We will support all initiatives in the interests of effective cooperation between our two countries, and I assure you that the government is behind any serious investor who wants to do business in Bulgaria and he can count on us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line, Mr. Belemezov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, dear Minister. Rather, I am taking a reply procedure to express my attitude towards the detailed response by Minister Bozidar Lukarski and indeed we, as National Assembly and parliamentary represented political groups, are encouraging him in this direction. Why would I say that? Because at a stage where the state has a high budget deficit, at a stage where Bulgaria's external debt is relatively high compared to the country's gross domestic product, at such a time foreign direct investment could be in some way threatened in the long term. And in this regard, we wish for the success of such initiatives, as we believe that they could bring really fresh investment capital to our country and improve overall economic and macrorama in the country. On the other hand, my appeal to you, in order to be able to differentiate in some way the investment flow in Bulgaria, is to address not only such large investors as China is as a country and economic power, but to have the opportunity to look also at the region close to us in the face of smaller countries. I will give an example that, in economic terms, a country such as Turkmenistan has an extremely flexible foreign economic policy, as its main external trade processes and relationships are primarily aimed at smaller and local players that do not tolerate serious dependence, but rather have the opportunity to be as flexible and maneuverable as possible, if you will, in negotiating the very economic relations between these countries. We really cross our fingers in this direction all that you have listed and given as an explanation in your response, to have the opportunity to happen at one stage and to start working long-term with such a country as China. And I also appeal to the small regional players who are close to us. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u194	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u195	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, thank you for your constructive ideas. I want to tell you that I fully share them, especially with regard to small players, especially with regard to the same ones in Middle Asia. In this regard, there was a large delegation from Turkmenistan last week. We've discussed some very useful questions. I think we will continue our cooperation because there is much to be done in the area of trade and economic relations with this country. As an example, I will give you Uzbekistan, where next month, together with the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova, we are planning a business delegation. I am using the case to invite you to Uzbekistan, there is quite a lot of interest in the business where we will discuss opportunities for expanding our trade and economic cooperation and more presence in Uzbekistan of Bulgarian investors and Bulgarian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Dragomir Velkov Stoynev about the National Company Industrial Zones and Industrial Zones in the context of improving the investment climate in the country. Mr. Stoinev, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u197	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question to you, Minister, concerns the investment climate in the country because, as I see it, 2015 you are already announcing with great pride that you attract many foreign investments, which is very nice and, of course, we from the opposition will support any policy that leads to improvement of the investment climate, especially of the business climate in the country, because, Minister, there is something that is not told to the Bulgarian citizens, and the Bulgarian business knows it very well. This is that the business climate for 2015, almost eight months, is decreasing. True, in October there was a slight rise, but overall the meter is negative, which clearly shows that the investments themselves, domestic, national, and this shows it and the statistics itself, is collapsing. In other words, Bulgarian entrepreneurs do not trust the government that you want to show. Yes, economic growth is really good. I hope that you will achieve an even better economic growth this year, but it is also important for me to understand exactly what policy you are following and what exactly you are proposing, because for the improvement of the investment climate of me it is precisely not clear, I can only say that there was a period when we presented a package that would guarantee and guarantee the Bulgarian business about 100 million savings, which concerns removing, easing registration, licensing and license regimes, a package that has never been legal before. And it wasn't a coincidence that the economy was so moving. As far as foreign investment is concerned, of course, the National Company Industrial Zones is a company that was established in 2009, which really has its positive effect. You know about the big businesses that are there. But at the same time, we've been seeing some of your actions lately that amaze me personally. For example, you recently fired CEO Atanas Nenov, who is also a member of the Board of Directors of a company that is truly successful. Of course, this is in the clamp, because until now I personally do not know exactly what your ideas are about how to develop this company, and also your ideas about improving the investment climate in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u198	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, I am grateful for the question and your concern for the development of the National Company Industrial Zones "EAD," including for improving the investment climate. You're actually one of the people who conceptually stood behind the idea of creating the company, which, however, has been very well developed mainly in the last year. First of all, I would like to inform you that according to the latest data from BNB, foreign direct investment for the period from the beginning of December 2014 to the end of November 2015 is 1,536 billion. EUR, which is 483 million. EUR more, compared to the same period of the previous year. These data vary greatly in the work of the government and the confidence of investors in Bulgaria. The certified projects in 2015 total 12, with nine class A, two class B and one priority investment project. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The projects are expected to open 1265 new jobs this year. Seven of the projects are implemented in high-tech industries and services, two are in municipalities with high unemployment, and five of the twelve projects are for the Economic Zone of Bozhurishte. The regulatory amendments in the last year have optimized and alleviated the process of certification of investment projects, reducing the administrative burden for investors and introducing greater clarity and predictability in providing financial incentives. During the period of its existence, the National Company Industrial Zones developed the fastest during the period of its existence through the Economic Zone Sofia "Bozhurishte" and became a major instrument for attracting investment. For one year on the territory of the Economic Zone Sofia, three investors were attracted, respectively certified under the Investment Promotion Act, one in Class A and two in Class B, with which their total number became 10. Three preliminary contracts for attracting investors in the territory of Sofia Economic Zone are also signed, which are expected to be finalised at the beginning of 2016. The signing of two more contracts is pending. One of them signed this week with the big furniture Danish producer Jusk. The total amount of investments, which excludes the cost of the acquisition of the properties, which investors who concluded final preliminary contracts will invest in the territory of the National Company Industrial Zones, is about 250 million. lv. At the moment, talks are under way to attract five new investors to the territory of the Economic Zone Sofia. In order to ensure the development of the Company during the year is increased capital and with an aport contribution property owned by the state in order to provide additional capacity of the Economic Zone Sofia "Bozhurishte" and create a better potential for attracting investment. Nearly 193 thousand acres were imported into the land of the village of Gurmazovo and nearly 125 thousand acres in the land of the village of Voluyak, which actually contribute to connecting the square infrastructure networks of the area to highway pipelines and utilities. Currently, opportunities are being discussed and analyzed for further deployment of the activities of the companies, possibly in the districts of Burgas, Pazardzhik and Stara Zagora, with financial stabilization of Svilengrad Free Zone EAD. It works extremely well for Ruse Free Zone, which pays dividends for the benefit of the National Company and provides additional funds for investment in the construction of the adjacent infrastructure. We are actively working on the promotion of the Free Zone Vidin ЕAD, looking for state properties for its deployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Stoynev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u201	Thank you. I am also grateful to the Minister. I am pleased with the answer. Mr. Minister, you understand that with 200.300 million more, one year compared to another, for investment that is not the most important, because there was a period when we attracted over 8 billion direct foreign investments. It was during this period that the company was created at the beginning when the crisis was felt. You tell yourself how much work is done. At the same time, I am glad that you continue and support such a policy, because it is really important. When a foreign investor comes to invest in the country, it is nice to provide land with built infrastructure, it should be supported in any way, and purely administrative. We see that these zones are developing step by step. You say yourself, in the last year there has been very great progress, which I am very pleased about, Mr. Minister. The problem is that at this very moment you are firing the Executive Director and the member of the Board of Directors. A person who is competent; a person who knows; who has gone from the very beginning in this Company. A man who this year, when you are a minister, has done his best to attract investors. All of a sudden you're firing this guy! I really don't understand. I don't believe this is some kind of political rematch or you caught this man in a certain violation. But when it comes to the state, when it comes to all of us together, if we can get the country out of this situation, we need more and more knowledgeable and capable people. I believe, Mr. Minister, that you have made a mistake with this man here. Perhaps you have been misled because the very results that you have just quoted show that he was obviously doing his job. And it will really be useful to you both in your future actions and in your policy of attracting foreign investors, because he is aware of what is happening to this Company. My personal opinion is that you made a mistake here, maybe you were misled. I personally do not know what the motives are, but I can assure you that Mr. Atanas Nenov is an outstanding specialist who is well received both here and abroad, and the only thing he has done is to work for the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u202	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, I understand the point of the line of your question which concerns Mr. Nenov's personality. To show you that there is no political rematchism, even though he was appointed at your time I do not look at things politically, I have let Mr. Nenov work in peace as an expert and also have a good opinion on his qualities. However, we had very difficult negotiations with "Yusk" which lasted perhaps about a year. Mr. Nenov did not participate in the best team effort in these negotiations, which were entirely exported to the back of the other members of the Board of Directors, to whom he, on the one hand, was not helping, on the other hand, except that there was no active cooperation with regard to these negotiations, and there were disagreements. The board of directors is still one team, I look at it that way, and given that one of the members doesn't get along with the others, it's normal for him to go. The current CEO, to show you that there is no party rematch, was an advisor at NEK precisely during your management. So there's no party here. The current CEO, I think, knows better, speaks more languages, has a better background, a more serious CV and knows investment climates and investors not only in Europe. Because he worked at a lot of companies in the U.S., New Zealand, Australia and England, I think he'd be more useful. That's my personal opinion, and as a principle, I've exercised it. I hope the results show that I was right and prove you wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question for today to Minister Lukarski is the MPs Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on economically unjustified fuel prices in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Lukarski, I suggest that we start from where you stopped with colleague Binev, talking about the possible cartel in the market for fuels. Let's start with what I was under the impression that you are saying that prices are market in Bulgaria, while the other thesis is obviously being formed on a non-market basis. That's pretty much where the argument starts. I also share the view that prices on the fuel market are not formed on a market basis and I will provide you with a lot of evidence in this direction. Including I will try to convince you that although the Ministry cannot be a regulator of this market, the thesis with which I agree, it can influence, has mechanisms of influence, including through its legislative initiative, which the Council of Ministers has. Let's get back to the question of market prices or non-market prices. Since I am convinced that my opinion is hardly that important to you, I will tell you what business thinks. Once upon a time you were appointed, so to speak, as Minister of Business. Here's what the Bulgarian Industrial Association published the other day "the following position that prices are not market, pointing out that for last year, if the oil price has dropped by nearly 43% worldwide, the price on the Bulgarian home market is only falling by 9% of diesel, which is obviously disproportion and is not market. There are many other examples. If at the time of asking the question we were at the 7-year minimum of oil prices on the world markets, then in the past month they have already reached a 13-year low. What is observed in 2015 is extremely disturbing because at the beginning of the year oil prices are higher than at the end of the year of the world markets, and at the petrol stations in Bulgaria is quite the opposite at the beginning of the year they are lower and at the end of the year they are higher, which is already a complete contradiction and in no way correspond. By adding to this evidence and the situation in Varna, where with the emerging competition of a new player, the price is already below 1.50 per diesel and he says that it sells profit, that is to say an unjustified large margin, there are indeed many questions and evidence that prices are not market. So I ask the question very briefly: do you think there is an economic justification for what is happening on the market? Where is the economic justification for the prices in Bulgaria to look like this, while in Europe, in the world markets to look quite different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u206	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Slavov, Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the simple market logic is such that when fuel prices fall or rise respectively on the world markets, on the end market, on the market of petrol stations, this does not happen automatically. Therefore, it is normal to have a margin of time since the fall of prices, which will reflect respectively the prices of petrol stations. We do not dispute whether it is subject to administrative regulation and administrative control the pricing of fuels by the Ministry of Economy. With regard to the legislative initiative, I accept. However, you too, Mr. Slavov, as MP, have a legislative initiative and therefore I am ready, and I am sure that the National Assembly is ready to hear any proposal you make regarding administrative regulation, administrative control by the Ministry of Fuel Price Economy. At present, there is no such existing regulatory act in force. God willing, what is happening in Varna is happening in more places in Bulgaria! This is a market principle that can lead to a decrease in prices. As for the feeling that the prices of liquid fuels in Bulgaria are high, I will make a reference to statistical information contained in the current Weekly Bulletin on Consumer Prices of Oil Fuels on 18 January 2016, published on the official page of the European Commission. In short, it was found from the reference that the retail price of petrol in Bulgaria is lower than the average in the European Union, and that of diesel is almost equal to the average price in the European Union, and I can quote you, of course, and prices in any country and I am ready to submit this reference. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Lukarski! I'll start where you stopped. This statistic that you are quoting is not correct because it looks at the final prices, and the price should be looked at before being charged with excise duty, to actually see the production price. If you look at the production prices, you will see that, in fact, Bulgaria is among the four highest diesel prices in the European Union, and given that we have the lowest excise duty in the European Union, we have a questionable low VAT level and some of the lowest production costs, which obviously speaks of something disturbing. Let me tell you a few other things about the margin you also mentioned. I return to the opinion of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. What they point out from it, what business shows is that there is a disturbing small margin in Bulgaria, a small difference between the prices of the main players on the market. They point out that this difference is about 0,18% between individual players, while in a normal market economy of the European Union, this margin is between 2 and 3%, that is to say, in practice, this margin is 20 times smaller, which is an indirect indicator of the existence again of some hidden agreement, of a possible cartel. That's a business finding again. I would like to say a few things to you because you have touched on the subject of the legislative initiative. With colleagues from the Civil Quota of the Reformation bloc, we have tried to change something, including a bill that has been rejected. I hope, eventually, if you really want to work in this direction, in a conversation with the Prime Minister, to persuade him to work for the support of the largest parliamentary group in parliament. What we wanted to do, and what concerns the so-called tax warehouses, was really to illuminate the mechanism on which these warehouses function, especially in the context of the information we have from the Commission for Protection of Competition, that two companies control over 80% of the tax warehouses and that in practice, in order to be able to sell fuels in Bulgaria, you must have access to a tax warehouse. That's what we tried to do, and it was rejected. We've tried to do a lot more than that. I have prepared a folder and I will leave it to you, where you will see the findings of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and what Deputy Prime Minister Donchev explained to us, including the refinery in Burgas, which has already been working with increased capacity and lower operating costs since it has implemented a huge large-scale investment programme for more than 1.5 billion. lv. It's all taking down her operating costs. In order to complete my line, I would like to tell you that this ambitious growth that the prime minister has placed on you as a task of 4.5-5%, we want to achieve it and we really need to think about introducing market rules on this principle. Because if fuel prices fall, the effect of a multiplier will be very strong and domestic consumption can be that engine of the economy we want. I'm finishing with a last sentence. If I can quote Bill Clinton, who once said, if you remember: the economy, you fool!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u210	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. It's a hole, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u211	Mr. Slavov, I agree with many of the things you said. For the sake of the question, I will only say this to you and I, we have spoken to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. The Commission for Protection of Competition is currently conducting a sectoral analysis related to the cartel study, a sectoral analysis of the fuel market. As far as I know, Mr. Donchev will be ready soon. Let's wait for him and see his findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next is a series of questions to Minister Lilyana Pavlova. The first three questions are united because they have a common theme, namely the prices of wine stickers. The first question is asked by the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Yankov, the second question is asked by the MPs Mihail Raykov and Georgi Strahilov Svilenski, and the third question is asked by the National Representative Velizar Penkov Enchev. Who's going to develop the question? I'm just reminding you that the time in the combined answers is increased. From the importers, who will present the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Pavlova! The question I've asked is from November 17th, at a time when you were still announcing intentions to raise the price of wine. To date, Bulgarian citizens are buying wine stickers with the new price. However, once you are ready to talk, the specific question is: what are the estimates of the need to raise the prices of wine? What is needed to repair, rehabilitate and build roads from the Republican Road Network with budget resources compared to 2015? Please justify by your reply the need for estimates made not only in terms of repairs, but in a complex of other factors for increasing the price of wine stickers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u214	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. The next two questions? Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u215	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! You have decided to increase the price of the wine stickers for cars from this year to 97 BGN, which means that the sticker increases by 30 BGN. On this occasion, before I ask you the question, let me remind the honourable public that the World Bank imposed on us the new scheme, it is the author, a scheme that will rob taxpayers and pour hundreds of millions into oligarchs' pockets. Initially announced BGN 145 for an annual sticker caused a wave of discontent, the reduced price of BGN 97 was subsequently announced, but this did not suppress the public tension. As a basis for the increase in prices, you, Mrs. Pavlova, as a minister, announced from the parliamentary tribune that the new values are the result of a World Bank report which is a consultant of the government in the construction of the National Toll Collection System, so-called the Toll System. The report is public, anyone can see it on the Ministry's website. In other words, the World Bank recommends two possible prices: or 150 BGN. High, or 97 BGN, which you accepted, that is to say the decision of the cabinet to increase the price of wine stickers is taken outside Bulgaria and you just obediently perform it. So I ask you: what does it mean from a social point of view that your statement that anyone who wishes can buy stickers and who does not want to buy and not use the roads? Don't you think this statement of yours is highly antisocial? I also ask you very much to answer what are the economic motives for the brutal increase in the price, which compared to the living standard in Bulgaria and compared to other European countries, puts us first in the expensive. This is an outrageous decision against which so many Bulgarian citizens protested, and you so insensitively responded with these words:.............................................................................................. Aren't you ashamed of those words of yours?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u216	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! And my question with my colleague, Mr. Mihail Mikov, is related to the price of wine. And as it became clear, the price of the wine was increased from BGN 67 to BGN 97. In your speech, Madam Minister, in April 2015 You state that the price of the wineries will not and should not be increased within not only the year, but within the entire four-year term. At the same time, in September 2015 you already claim that the wines should be increased to a price of 150 BGN. After a series of protests, the price you set was BGN 97, stating that this is on the recommendation of a report from the World Bank. However, this same World Bank report has a Report Zero and Report 1 in which the Bulgarian government has offered a price of 150 BGN on the basis of which the analysis of the World Bank will be made. In this regard, it is also our question to you: when exactly and based on what analyses have you decided to raise the price of the wine? And which representative of the Bulgarian government has agreed a price of 150 leva to be given as the basis of the analysis of the World Bank? And the second question, or it is part of this question: what will the revenue from the price increase be used for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u218	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the questions asked. You have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yankov, dear Mr. Svilenski, dear Mr. Enchev! I will answer in general all the questions raised, starting from the general to the specific increase. The first thing I have to say is that within the existing system of payment the use of Republican roads in Bulgaria, introduced in 2004, has been adopted a wine system km. In the introduction of the system as early as 2004, as it is valid to this day, a basic recommendation as a way in which this system should be applied as it is applied in other countries applying a wine system is that the price should be updated every year by an average of around 10 BGN. annual and this is the normal average increase with which this should happen. Unfortunately, right or wrong, if I have to personally give my assessment, it may not have been right, including in our previous term, the decision not to increase regularly, gradually, gradually, annually to be indexed by a certain amount, as it is estimated that this recommendation of 10 BGN. is too high, so it is considered that the basic annual increase should be an average annual increase of 5 BGN, and this has not been done. The prices of the wineries have not been increased since 2008. This led to the situation at the moment when this, albeit once, seems a really serious increase, precisely because it is done once in eight years. Within these eight years of purely statistical purposes, as is done indexing of all other types of fees, we have more than 60% increase in the average wage, 73% on the minimum wage, we talk as a basis for evaluation of indices, but in this period if such annual indices were made, then it wouldn't look really so drastic. In terms of what needs are. As you mentioned, the World Bank. World Bank does not decide for Bulgaria. Decides Bulgaria and the Bulgarian government, but Bulgaria uses the expertise of experts of the World Bank, who helped to develop several strategic documents, one of which was the Strategy for the Development of the National Road Infrastructure by 2022, as well as the analysis of what are the possible models to move from the wine system to the mixed system. As part of this analysis are analyzed, of course, the possible prices of both tol fees and wine stickers. What are the needs? The needs by 2022, as set out in the Bulgarian Road Sector Development Strategy, show a need of more than 7 billion. BGN, if you want Bulgaria to complete its highway ring, on the one hand, and on the other hand To maintain the existing roads, the 20 thousand. kilometre, the funds needed per year shall be calculated at a minimum of 600 million. lv. annual, such as investment in maintaining Republican roads, so that they are able to do what we all want them to be. Unfortunately, most of the roads in Bulgaria are not in good condition. Over 6,000. km are the roads of that 20,000. km, which are in unsatisfactory condition. That is why we need to invest much more investment in their complete repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction to translate them into good condition, and then only to their ongoing or preventive maintenance and repair. In Bulgaria, as a trend, the average annual revenue from wineries varies between 180 and 220-230 million. BGN, as gross value. Where, of course, the costs of production, distribution and other inherent costs are deducted from this value, an average of between 150 and 200 million per year. lv. remain for investment for repairs of the Republican road network. As is apparent from the analyses, as is apparent from the existing state of the roads, these funds are extremely insufficient. That is why every year from the state budget outside the funds collected by winemakers and invested for winter maintenance and ongoing repair, and road patching, are given to be applied by.. e. last year, remember, for example, for the major repairs of the highways "Trakiya", "Hemus", respectively, the viaducts, and in recent years for certain roads. Yet the state of the network is not improving because the needs are great, the funds are insufficient. I note that in recent years: Bulgaria has invested a significant resource in road development since 2007 - more than 3 billion, of which 2 billion are funds from European funds for free funding and 1 billion from the state budget or loans from the European Investment Bank and the World Bank. With them, we have 300 km of new highways, over 3,000. km of rehabilitated roads and again it is not enough to achieve 20,000. miles of well-maintained roads. You have to invest. The wine sticker is not a tax, it is a fee for use. The person who uses must pay this fee. That's the reason, Mr. Enchev, to say it's a fee, it's voluntary. Whoever uses a car that has a car must fill it with fuel, must pay him accordingly the oil change, review and pay the fee if he wants to drive this car along the Republican roads. The municipal roads are 20 thousand more. km, no wine stickers are due to them. With this, I think that I answer to all the questions raised and I pay attention to another fact - Bulgaria, unlike other countries where there are wine stickers, does not apply road tax. In many countries in Europe, where there are wine stickers, besides the fee itself through wine stickers, which is paid for cars, they also pay a road tax. All these funds go to the budget of their travel agencies and they invest and improve road quality. In Bulgaria the funds are only from wineries and are extremely insufficient. If we want to have good roads, we have to invest in them. There is no way, with the lowest taxes, with a low reassignment value of the budget, to expect that the state can do anything. We must pay a fair fee, but in order for the model to be fair, the government has decided to switch to a mixed system: wine stickers, an electronic car bill and a kilometre fee from heavy goods vehicles that travel more ruin more. In this way, we expect, when introducing this system, an increase in revenue and, in turn, to enable us to invest more and more in the improvement of the road network in the years ahead, because if we look at the next issues, including today's parliamentary control, these are 18 questions that you, honourable Members, are asking when we are going to repair this or another time. We'll repair them when we've secured the funds. In order to provide funds, we need revenue from wineries, we need revenue in the budget to be able to reinvest back in roads, in infrastructure, in health, social and other activities. This is the reassignment function of the state, and we need to decide which is the next. When you ask for roads, then support the wineries and the price to be the one that is real, to collect income from them to reinvest and have the roads that we all want. Unfortunately, they are not in good condition right now, and you and I know it, but we need to improve them. It's kind of like the egg and the chicken, which is the first. There's no way we can fix them with a magic wand all of a sudden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u220	Following are the lines of the three MPs on the three issues. The first is Mr. Yankov. You have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u221	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Pavlova, you show that you do not raise taxes as a government, but the increase of wine stickers is at the expense of every Bulgarian citizen, anyone who owns a vehicle as a natural person or legal person. You hid for November when we were asking our questions as relevant, during the time when this debate was to take place on the subject. The service is not a useful fact established at the beginning of this year. Why do you think that Bulgarian citizens should pay a higher price for the specific contract with the state, provided that the state has not improved the service?! That is, once we have an increase within this year, it will be better that this guilty sticker is extended with a period of validity until May following 2017, since the state as a country under this kind of treaty has not raised the conditions.. at a high price to be paid by the Bulgarian citizens. You said with your answer that you would increase the price, you intended to increase the price for next year. You're talking about indexing prices. We ask you for estimates and the answer we have received is that about 150 You're talking about raising revenue, aren't you? Where are the people in your programming government? Where is the Bulgarian people?! This increase affects the prices of all goods, and of those who are of primary necessity you are aware of this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It affects people's lives. You're talking about stability, but this stability is being carried through people's despair. You need to be aware of this and you need to be afraid of people's reactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u222	The line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Madam Minister, I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't get one of those on my question. My question was: when exactly did you decide that the price of the wine should be increased because in April you claim that it will not and should not be increased? In September, that is, shortly after the local elections, you announce the already increased price. When exactly did you decide it was supposed to go up? Yes, you say that for eight years the price has not been increased, only for these eight years five years it has managed GERB. In both governments, you were a minister, why didn't you? Why didn't you raise the price so it wouldn't be 67, 150 or 97 leva now?? Moreover, to the other question I asked you: which representative of the Bulgarian government signed and agreed Report 0 and Report 1 to the World Bank? Say, Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Ivanova from the Agency, you, who? Tell us which representative gave reasons to the World Bank to tell us that the price should be 150 BGN. Or BGN 97.? You say that decisions are made in Bulgaria. But let the Bulgarian citizens now know who made this decision, who suggested it? That is the purpose of this debate and that is why we have called you here November, December, January, but, unfortunately, we have not had a chance to hear from you. And a personal request to you: please stop advertising, which goes on the radio, at the wineries of the Road Infrastructure Agency. This advertisement is an insolent attitude towards Bulgarian citizens. You can't advertise and compare the price of the wine to 8 BGN. per month, compare it with mobile and telephone operators, provided that the Bulgarian citizen cannot buy a monthly bill for 8 BGN. This is a manipulation which the Commission for Consumer Protection should also refer to. When you say it costs 8 leva, take me, now together, after control, to buy a wine for 8 leva. for a month. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u224	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u225	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Mrs. Pavlova, whether I'm satisfied or not, what difference does it make? I am sure that the Bulgarian citizens who are currently watching this broadcast from the National Assembly are angry with your response for two reasons. Since you have announced something new at the moment that you intend to increase each next year by about 10 or 10 BGN, if I have heard correctly, the price of the wine sticker, so the anger of the Bulgarian citizens will yet be expressed. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You said it wasn't a tax, it was a tax. What does it matter if it is a tax or a charge when this shock increase, unprecedented for the last 26 years since the beginning of the transition, is a drastic, shocking, murderous increase, which, by the way, was made very perfidious on the eve of Christmas, or we were almost on Christmas holidays when the people could not react. And on your note that this is not the work of the World Bank and is an autonomous decision of the Bulgarian government, I will tell you that in the report of the Bank, which I read from your site, it is said that the state should collect over 400 million annually. lv. from these fees, which makes it clear that both the prices and the scope of the system you are introducing have been pre-coordinated, approved and it cannot be any surprise on your part. I mean, what the World Bank told you, that's what you did. I just want to tell you on this occasion that the World Bank recommends that the scope of the wineries be on 100% of the Republican roads, and in Europe only three countries have such a 100% range. In all other European countries, which we call normal, where there is at all a wine system, the scope is significantly smaller and covers only highways and roads. We can summarize, and this will be my final statement that the poorest country in the European Union has introduced the most expensive system for its population in an extremely brutal, antisocial way. And you also didn't answer my question: aren't you ashamed of this statement: whoever has money will drive his car and pay the fee or the tax as if he wouldn't drive? This is indeed a scandalous statement, and it seems to me that you should somehow correct yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u226	A hole, Madam Secretary. You've got six minutes for the backdrop in response to the three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, I will try by order of the lines made to make my duplicate. First, in terms of quality of service. Mr. Yankov, your thesis is comfortable. She's highly populist, or, hopefully, she's not born of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u228	But it's true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u229	And she's extremely unfaithful and manipulative. [[Applause from GERB.]] Totally false and manipulative due to very simple wine stickers with a price of 67 BGN. are still valid. They are valid until the end of January, so the revenues that we have from the wine stickers, including those that apply until the end of January. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] As of February 1st, those willing to buy annual wine stickers at the new price will start buying them from February and they will apply until January of next year. Only after we start buying these stickers will we see if there is a reflection and if it goes up or down from the point of view of the revenues with which we can reinvest back in, as you called it, the service regarding the ongoing maintenance and repair of Republican roads. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u230	Mr. Iankov, no one was interrupting you while you were talking. Please! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u231	With regard to the indexation Mr. Enchev, I did not say that we will increase it next year, but I said that since 2004 it has been recommended that when there is a wine system, it should be updated on average between five and ten levs per year so that such shock increases are not made. Yeah, you're right, I also take it as a mistake that we didn't do this phased and annually, but suddenly, but nevertheless I believe that the price of the wine sticker, if we want to improve the quality of the service and of the roads, should be in such sizes that we can reinvest back in these roads. Whether we will increase them next year depends, first of all, on a government decision, but also on the extent to which we are in the implementation of the new system of electronic wines, because when introducing electronic wine, on the one hand, we solve the problem of not valid from January to January, and if you buy it in May, it is valid until next May; and secondly, we solve the problem of buying it online or in any other way. The introduction of electronic wineries goes and is accompanied by making heavy goods vehicles pay more, to introduce this fairer model, which you yourself said just a moment ago, we all strive: transit traffic, heavy traffic to pay more for the crossing of the country's roads. Then we will now decide what the scope of the wine stickers should be, whether it should be a hundred percent of the toll system and the wine stickers from the road network, or whether it should be part of what some countries have chosen. This is also an analysis and a decision we need to make. We must not forget that the third-class roads, which are in the worst condition, are 12,000. km. If we want to repair those who are in the worst condition, they need the most resources to repair, so we need to put in our efforts there. That's when we made the decision. It was taken in November because the end of October was the deadline in which we received the overall analysis, on the basis of which we made the financial justification. It, as we said, involves option 0. We do not change option 1 These are the analysis done by the interagency task force, you know, I guess. If you don't know, I confirm. It examines these analyses of both the World Bank and the group dealing with price analyses. With regard to social justice, I pay attention once again to the fact that the state provides 190 thousand a year on average. the number of free social assistance wineries for those persons who are disabled and entitled to such stickers through the Social Assistance Agency. This is an investment by the Road Agency, which is an average of over 12 million. lv. A year to provide these 190 thousand cars, which run with a free annual bill. With regard to the increase in the price, we talk all the time only about annual, but everyone can decide and choose as we have available weekly and monthly stickers. This is also possible for those who assess that they travel less, accordingly, to limit the investment in buying wine stickers, but not for a whole year, but for a certain period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u232	Procedure Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u233	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Madam President, as far as I am aware of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, parliamentary control is something where MPs ask for answers and ministers are obliged to give them. The ministers should be educated, at the very least that this Parliament voted for them, it does not matter how, whether they are manipulative, whether they are populist or others, and whether they are materially responsible. The citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria are smart enough, intelligent enough to see whether a question is populist, whether it is manipulative and whether the answer is not populist or manipulative, which answer is essentially and who is not. Your task as President of the National Assembly is to keep track of this, so that those who have received the trust of the people can not abuse that trust. Otherwise, if we go into the hypothesis of assumptions, I could ask the question: Did the price of advertising on the radio come into the price of wine? I do not do it, but for nothing else, but because I respect the executive authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u234	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with you that the Bulgarian citizens are those who can very clearly distinguish a manipulative statement, whether it be a MP or the others involved in parliamentary control. It is out of respect for the Bulgarian citizens that I believe that I am not the one who should make a remark whether one voice is manipulative or not. What's more, you're right. The MPs ask the questions, the minister answers accordingly, and whether the people's representative is satisfied or not, there is an opportunity to say it, and so far this is happening, in his reply. You're welcome, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u235	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I take this opportunity during the procedure in the manner of conduct to draw attention to you that you, as President of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and Procedure, should have your reaction when from the parliamentary platform, no matter who speaks, insinuates, tells lies. You must have your reaction, because as my colleague Svilenski asked Mrs. Pavlova to take him to buy a monthly wine for 8 BGN, I will turn with a rhetorical question: is there a possibility for the next eight days you can take me to the place where I can buy a wine of 67 BGN.?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u236	Is this about me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u237	Because you lied. The new wine stickers at a price of BGN 97 They're from December! Madam President, you are the one who has been broadcast by the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u238	You have procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u239	...to cross and stop not being able to express lies from the parliamentary tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u240	Mr. Iankov, the rules are clear to everyone and everyone must follow them. For me, it is unacceptable in a procedure in the way you conduct yourself to develop arguments in support of your thesis. Since you have called me to be very strict in order to comply with the rules, I note that in such an attempt I will act very strongly and I will not even give the opportunity to complete the thought when it is not by the rules! Thank you for our consent. And now you have the opportunity to ask Minister Pavlova your next question about repairs to Thrace Motorway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u241	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mrs. Pavlova, my question to you is asked on November 18th. I point out that two months later, we also come to your answer. A division of 8 km near Stara Zagora on Trakia Motorway as of November has deformed on information from the Road Infrastructure Agency. The department was renovated as of November. In this regard, my question is also: what are the reasons for the repair of this road section, and by what means is the budget, European or others? Is there any need for repairs to other sections of Thrace Highway? I would like to point out to you that I have a specific answer in the second part of the question that I have asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u242	Would you suggest what sections you are referring to because you expect to hear something, but will it match your expectations? You have an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! With regard to the necessary repairs to the highway, I will answer your question very specifically. First, regarding the section from Lot 2 "from Stara Zagora to Nova Zagora," specifically from kilometre 210+100 to kilometre 241+100 with a total length of 31.8 km, funded by Operational Programme "Transport" These repairs have been carried out on this precinct. I note that the repair activities carried out in all these sections of this section of this section, called the "Trakiya" highway, by the Stara Zagora section, are carried out at the expense of the guarantee that we have from the contractor company, as for this section is provided under the requirements of the law a 5-year guarantee for the activities carried out. So the answer is yes, they are. Other defects have been identified. They are brought before the performer and are executed on his behalf. To your second question specifically to answer yes, there are other sections outside those that were renovated in 2015 that need repair. The most seriously compromised sections of the highway "Trakiya" which we have established are in the two sub-areas "Praisovtovo" "Cirpan" and respectively "Cirpan" "Stara Zagora." I remind you that they were built during your government when there were no five-year warranty deadlines. When the same firm contractor built and executed, then the guarantee period, unfortunately, was only one year. The serious distortions of this road section have been in place for several years. This is an indisputable fact, but due to the lack of a guarantee that we can apply and accordingly refer to the contractor since 2009, due to the lack of such sections, there is no way to repair them at the expense of that same contractor. To date, in order to fully repair those sections we are talking about on which tracks are established, the necessary means of similar estimates, which we can do in relation to the repairs of the other sections, we are talking here about more serious tracks and road lanes that need to be addressed are within a range of about 40.50 million. BGN, which we need to remove from the state budget if we want to repair them. At this stage, with the general budget that the Roads Agency has for winter maintenance and on-going repair of roads worth about 200 million, this is not possible. We know they have to be repaired. When providing financial resources, we could repair them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u244	The line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u245	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! You have established poor performance after there is a need for repair and is at the expense of the performer. There is practice in other countries, and I ask you in the supplementary question: do you intend to apply it when it is established that a contractor builds poorly, not to be allowed procedures for future projects financed by the state? Especially for the two sections that you are quoting, the performer is one, but there are other cases in which the implementation then leads to the need for repair. You build to repair. The fall of the other highways is clear evidence of that. Please respond specifically: will there be restrictions on those who are poor performers for the future when the contracting authority is the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u246	A hole, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov, I agree with your opinion in general, this is also in line with my opinion that it would be good to have the so-called black list with companies for which we see that when performing certain construction and construction works, they allow poor quality. We've discussed this practice, but unfortunately, I didn't get a positive answer. Experience has been made with a draft directive of the European Union in all member states to be able to make a blacklist of such companies. However, the opinion that we have at a common European level is that if a performer has behaved poorly on one site or another, it does not necessarily mean that we have to deprive him of the opportunity to appear in another procedure because he can perform well in this new procedure. To put it simply, I am not telling you this whole quote, we have received the opinion that this will be an undue restriction on the participants in a tender procedure for which we can be sanctioned. That's the reason we don't. Otherwise, I also think that this is quite good, quite disciplining would have affected some builders, who untruely, unfortunately, we have some, too, happening to work on some objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u248	Allow them to participate, but don't choose them then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u249	Next is a question of MP Borislav Iglev about rehabilitation of the road Topolovgrad "Stara Zagora."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u250	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Pavlova, a few months ago I asked you a question about the section of the Polish Gradec "Svetlina" - Topolovgrad, part of the road "Topolovgrad" - Stara Zagora. During the election campaign, I repeatedly went through this section. The road is extremely important because hundreds of workers work in the thermal plants and mines, and every day they have to go through this section. I cannot fail to share that the passage through this road will be carried out in a safe way, something that you said in my previous question that will happen in March. My question is this: in what time will the repair of the section in question begin? Are the twenty-six million that you said would be necessary to repair the entire road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u251	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iglev! Regarding the question of rehabilitating the road sections you mentioned, I would like to make one clarification. I also have a printout of the transcript from the previous parliamentary control you're quoting. I'll confirm what you said back then, but not what you just said. We need to make one clarification. I also confirm today that the necessary resource from the indicative value needed to repair and rehabilitate the second-class road from Stara Zagora to Radnevo 40 km long and indicative value of the project 26 million. BGN is provided within the framework of the funding, which we have for rehabilitation of road sections under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" 2014 " 2020." So these 26 million as resources are available, the project is prioritized in the priority road sections to be rehabilitated under this programme, but I am talking about the second-class Stara Zagora. What are the deadlines that stand before us? The Managing Authority of this Operational Programme has opened an opportunity for application of the Agency "Trails" with this and other projects with which it wants to apply for rehabilitation. In February, the Road Infrastructure Agency will submit this project for approval for funding under the Operational Programme. I hope that this year we will successfully conduct the selection procedure. Depending on whether or not there is an appeal, it will be able to start this year. If there's an appeal, it'll probably start next year. That's something I can't say for sure today. Certainly, however, there is funding, the project is envisaged, it is expected to be approved, a public contract will be held, a contractor will be chosen to carry out this rehabilitation. Regarding the second time that you quote the third-class road Polish Gradets, Topolovgrad, Ustrem, which is 23 km long and also needs rehabilitation. This project is also provided for in the projects to be rehabilitated in the coming years. However, it is not so far ahead in the list of prioritized projects, as the list is very long. The funds, the general budget for the entire programming period of the Operational Programme, will probably reach for the first 15 projects from the list. I hope that in the case of a spare resource from public procurement when selecting contractors, we can also manage to finance projects that are further behind the list in the coming years. I can confirm that for the third-class road that is from Polish Gradec to Ustrem, we are in a design procedure so that we have good design readiness so that if sufficient financial resources are released and for it, we can submit it immediately for funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u253	The line, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Pavlova, it is a pity that the road Polski Gradetz is not prioritized. I remember very well that my first question was directed precisely for this time, not for Stara Zagora. If you'll allow me, I'll show you some pictures from the road that are really scary, which I did during the local campaign, in order to see them and find out. I hope you take into account the state of the road and the serious dangers it is hiding. Personally, I do not recommend its use, as when two cars pass, a traffic accident may occur. As an MP from Haskovo region, I will continue to monitor the situation and resolve this case, which is taking too long. I hope this time the road will fall further on the list, because it was the first time I asked you the question that was about the section of Light to Topolovgrad. If you allow me, I will leave the photos for you to look at and understand that the road really needs repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u255	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. Next is a question of MP Mariana Boyadjieva about rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Republican road III 4082 Cheshma "Kesarevo" from km 23+300 to km 40+650, Veliko Tarnovo district. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you is related to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Republican road III-4082 from the village of Cheshma to the village of Kesarevo from km 23+300 to km 40+650 on the territory of the municipality of Strazhitsa. This is a republican road that connects Veliko Tarnovo to Targovishka region. It is known that there is a project for this section, which was drawn up by the Road Infrastructure Agency and a permit for the construction of the district governor of Veliko Tarnovo No 35 of 17 November 2011 and in 2014 a procedure of contractor was launched. By decision of the Municipal Council of Strazhitsa of the same year, projects from internal sewerage network activities in the village of Kesarevo under contract No 04/321/00157, financed by the Rural Development Programme and Project These projects were successfully implemented last year and thus the municipality of Strazhitsa managed to implement part of its commitments so that the reconstruction and rehabilitation of this section of the Republican road network could be done. In addition, the Municipal Council by its Decision No 567 of 28 November 2014 committed that the elements of the underground infrastructure of this road section should not be reconstructed for a period of five years after the completion of the work on the water network. In this sense, my question to you, Madam Minister, is the debt is history regarding the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the section of this Republican road: after the commitments of the Municipality of Strazhitsa have already been fulfilled, what is the readiness for the state to take over and fulfil its commitments regarding the completion of the work on this republican road, which, as I have already pointed out, connects two areas, and is in a very difficult state at the moment, and this makes it difficult for citizens to move on this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u257	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, you're right. Indeed, the rehabilitation project on this third-class road has a long history. If we have to turn back time, he was on the list of projects that we could rehabilitate under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" in the previous programming period. Unfortunately, that couldn't have happened. Firstly, above all, what you said about the requirement that the projects and roads that are rehabilitated should be met, that the underground infrastructure be replaced, namely the water infrastructure replaced, so that they can be rehabilitated. I would also point out that we are aware and support the Municipality of Strazhitsa and with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development. Last year, we provided twice additional funds from the MRDPB budget for activities related precisely to Strazhitsa's plumbing and sewerage, precisely so that the project could be completed, because both the plumbing and the sewers were a very important investment that the Ministry supported. What's the situation today? The value of this road, which is necessary for the project to be rehabilitated, which we said we had a project readiness, is about 8.8 million. BGN, which we don't have at the moment. You know, the Operational Programme "Regional Development" ended in December 2015 and the negotiations on it in 2013 and on the new operational programme, as I mentioned, the resource is less. The total resource over seven years is 380 million. lv. such as the requirements, including from the European Commission to Bulgaria, are to prioritize major road directions connecting large settlements primarily links to major major highways, first class roads. On this principle, projects are prioritized as well. Here I indirectly respond to Mr. Iglev because, first, we need to make the big directions, the main roads, the first and second classes, and then, if there is a resource left, we need to try to finance at least part of the third-class road network. However, Mrs. Boyadjieva, I assure you that after every winter and this year during the months of March and April, we are doing an analysis of the damage to the Republican road network after the winter conditions, after the chemicals that are used and the means to clean the roads. In the program for ongoing repairs, patching up the roads after winter, yes, it will really be a patching up, it will not be a complete rehabilitation. We are trying to include the roads on which there is serious traffic, and the roads that have serious compromises. So this is also going to be one of the roads that we're going to analyze and try on the line of the Program for Current Repair and Mending of Roads to do some sort of partial repair of these sections, or at least the most compromised of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u259	The line is Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u260	Mrs. Chairman! Madam Minister, I understand the objective circumstances, but you yourself have pointed out that this time there is indeed a long history and a commitment made by the state. Moreover, I have personal impressions of the condition at the moment. I must tell you that the condition of this road station is miserable. As local people and local authorities share, it will soon be impossible to travel. It is, of course, important, in addition to all commitments made to priority areas, to take into account that people live in these areas, travel students, supplies of essential goods are delivered. Particularly in the difficult winter conditions the municipality of Strazhitsa was one of the victims of the last snow in a very difficult situation, so we expect the state to show more attention and care in solving the problem with this difficult road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u261	A hole? You won't use it. It is a matter of MP Georgi Bojinov on the development of a project of the Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u262	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The development of the project is in implementation of the Program for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2028, Priority 13-1, overcoming the economic backwardness of individual regions, including Northwestern Bulgaria. Among the main objectives of the Programme is the improvement of infrastructure. The first part should include priority projects for investment from the state budget in the period 2016 - 2018. My question applies to this part and does not affect the parts of the Coordinating and the so-called Bank of Ideas. It is: on what budget can the ready and approved by the Regional Council integrated Project for the major renovation of the second-class and third-class road network in Vratsa for the period 2016 - 2018 and in particular for 2016, provided that the budget has been adopted and the forecast for these three years also?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u263	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bozhinov! Before I answer your question, it is not personal to you, but many aggressive words have been heard a moment ago regarding...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u265	There was nothing aggressive about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u266	Not from you. Aggressive words from many MPs in this regard should or should not have an increase in the price of the wine. And like I said, all questions are about roads. If we want to repair roads, we need to have revenue in the budget so that we can reinvest in a road network. So to any question so far and from now on, this could be the only answer I have to give. And with regard to a targeted investment programme, it aims in the least developed regions of Northwestern Bulgaria, in the Rhodopes, in Strandzha, in the Sakar Mountain and semi-mountain regions, to create and identify such projects that will make it possible in these regions to create more jobs, to attract more investments, to create businesses, the so-called enterprises, including by you, and I support you, yes, we even call it re-industrialization. This is the goal of this Programme. The aim is to identify such projects that, with the support of the State to create an economic zone, whether for enterprises targeting a particular industrial zone, a business area, an activity, an infrastructure with which to support a potential investor to come, to make his investment and to open jobs. That is why, in the focus of this Programme, we are currently trying to prioritize such projects that will create this. It is clear that this, as I call it, is a good wish for this large list of projects that we see behind these billions behind it. But now we need to identify these projects for each area that would have the best added value in order to have jobs there, investments, businesses to create employment. Education and employment are the two objectives of this Programme. That is why, given that we still need to justify for each of these areas at least a few solid pilot projects to do this and these are not necessarily roads, because, yes, roads are important. Without roads, there is no economy, you say, and I will support you. But we can't just invest in roads again. We must invest in road and other infrastructure to support these areas and these industrial parks. So the proposed project, which you are quoting from the Municipality of Vratsa, are road sections that must be rehabilitated, as well as many other road sections in Northwestern Bulgaria, and, unfortunately, in the territory of the whole country. But the purpose of this targeted investment programme is slightly different. This does not mean that we should not look for means for roads, but we should find investments in support of the economy, business and this type of activities and conditions for economic direct growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u267	A line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u268	Dear Minister, these three hundred and several pages are just the first part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u269	Are those pictures?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u270	This is the project development. Only the first part, which should be provided financially with Budget 2016 - 2018. You didn't tell me how much there was for this program. You focused on reindustrialization. With the utmost respect to you, I would say that this area suffered an additional collapse after the paradigm for the shock withdrawal of the state, because it was purposely industrialized. And when your great Bulgarian statesman, your grandfather, Georgi Pavlov, was Minister of the chemical industry of Bulgaria, especially in Vratsa region, developed the colour metallurgy, cast iron, cellulose paper industry, chemical industry, nuclear industry...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u271	A line on the road response...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u272	No, because I didn't get any answer on the roads about how much money she was told...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u273	Specifically, the question of the roads!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u274	Wait a minute! That this program will develop in a complex way. And since nothing is going to happen to measure up to what happened at the time, I want to end with those words. When you are criticized for having such a communist grandfather, answer them that he was a builder of Bulgaria and then this region flourished. At least tell that to your personal critics!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u276	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. There is a question from the MPs Mihail Mikov and Philip Popov regarding the construction of the road Dimovo "Ruzintsi." Mr. Mihail Mikov's question is about the road Vidin "Serbian border section village Byala Rada" village Boynitsa. A little later, when he was able to come to plenary, Mr. Mikov was engaged at the moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! That's the second time I've asked that question. The same was placed on your predecessor from the office. She answered me, but the road remains in a miserable and dire state. Once again, I will ask you the same question: when will the bypass road be built at Dimovo Ruzhintsi, although it is part of the international transport corridor No. 4? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u278	Mrs. Pavlova, you have the opportunity to answer to Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! The short answer to your short question is: when funding is provided. And otherwise a design readiness for the construction of this road and in its entire direction, namely the direction Vidin "Montana," is an extremely important road section for which we have invested a very serious resource of funds for pre-project research, project preparation. As part of this direction is the tour of Dimovo and Ruzhintsi respectively. Here we have to pay attention to a fact. You asked me that question before, except for my predecessors. I have to make a very important clarification and I regret that Mr. Mikov is not there to hear this answer, because I believe that this is something that we need to unite ourselves as a consensus in favour of the citizens who live in the region of Vidin, Dimovo, Ruzhintsi and so on. In this whole direction, which is important and its value, if we want to build a highway section, which this region deserves, is an investment of almost a billion if we want to make this a highway section. Given that there is no financial resource so far from the European funds for this section, we need to prioritize and see what we can do with our own powers, with the funds from the state budget. For me personally, I am convinced about you, too, given that you are insistently asking this question rightly, we should start with Dimovo's tour. Here comes a very important moment. You know that there are two projects for the tour of Dimovo. Let's call it the small tour of Dimovo, this is a very old Project from 1962, it's really a small tour that predicts the removal of traffic from the city. But in parallel with the purpose of building a highway along this direction in the section of Vidin "Montana," we have invested a serious financial resource for having a comprehensive highway, including the tour of Dimovo, on a different, alternative route. So to date we have two projects: the small tour of Dimovo, which is parallel to the future tour of Dimovo, which will be part of the highway. That is why our proposal and our appeal to you, including: to have a discussion and I think we should unite around that it is better to make the big tour of Dimovo Because we need to have the long-term vision and purpose that we need to build this highway section. Both sites have a design readiness, they have an environmental impact assessment. Of course, appeals are under way, and it is better to alienate these terrains and those lands on which to build the big perimeter of Dimovo as part of the future highway than to make parallel two tours of Dimovo, which will be quite short distance. Our efforts for 2016 are aimed at finishing the parcel fund, finishing the estrangement procedures, finishing EIA appeals in the coming weeks, months and having a fully completed project, and investing in this tour, which is more appropriate to be the big tour as part of the future motorway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u280	The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u281	Thank you, Madam President. A small/large project I do not know, such a project was launched in 2013 and it was 12 million. lv. Whether it is small or large, you should probably tell the people of Dimovo, whose houses cracked and collapsed due to the passing of heavy trucks to Danube Bridge 2. With regard to the big project yes, there was such a project, was introduced into Operational Programme "Transport" 2014 2020 for the construction of a high-speed four-way Sofia "Vidin." Only you and your predecessors put the cross on and pulled this program out of the priorities. Now I understand that it is removed from the priorities and modernization of the railway line Sofia "Vidin." That's why you said it would be when there was money. Obviously for Vidin and for the Northwest, such funds are not foreseen. Otherwise, the easiest thing is to make plans, to make strategies that, however, are not filled with funding and content and people to have only expectations. However, these expectations are not limitless. There are some boundaries, some limits, and it is time, I think, the people in Vidin region, in the Northwest to understand that they are part of Bulgaria, and ultimately for them to foresee even a small project of the 12 million. BGN to stop ruining their houses by the cars passing by there. In addition, it is shameful for Bulgaria, which in Vidin region is on two borders to both Serbia and Romania and the Danube Bridge 2 facility to have no way there. In practice, this bridge leads from Europe to nowhere. You can't get through there. The railway transport is not extended, it cannot pass a train through the tunnels, although it is included in the agreement with Romania to extend the narrow sections along the railway and along the road. However, there is no such thing, Bulgaria does not fulfil its obligations. After all, this is the suffering of Bulgarian citizens and especially those from Northwestern Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u282	A hole? You won't use it. Next, a question by the MP Vasil Antonov concerning the serious condition of road infrastructure from the Republican road network serving the municipality of Levski, Pleven district.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u283	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As has already been said, my question is related to the condition and the repair of road III.. 304, serving the municipality of Levski and Nikopol and taking the movement from the settlements Izgrev, Trunchovitsa, Batsova neighborhood, Novachene, the branch with the village of Debovo. In fact, I asked the question on 1 December 2015, but it is de facto a copy-paste of my question from the month of November the previous year. If we need to talk about the state of the road network of this type, I want to share that it is this time that can be used as a reference for bad condition, so to a large extent your response and your attitude depends on what will happen to it specifically. There are at least a few reasons to proceed to the faster realization of the repair of this road, even more for it there is a project. First, this road takes the traffic from the ferry Nikopol To a large extent, the need to build and repair this road is greater with the introduction of the new depot in Nikopol Municipality, it becomes additionally burdened with the daily traffic from the transportation of waste on it, at least in three or four of the neighbouring municipalities. Here comes my specific question to you. Please commit yourselves specifically to what we are doing with the critical condition of route III. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u284	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u285	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Antonov! You are right, as for all the roads I have answered so far, the questions are mainly about third-class roads, those of the third-class network are mainly in poor condition and this time is one of them. Since you refer to a question next to me a few years ago, as I answered you and then yes, we will make efforts to make the most of it. Then this is what we did and we invested in the most compromised section of 12 km, of which 8.5 km are in the territory of Levski municipality, 3 km If we want to make a complete renovation, which we also have a project for, its value is about 4 million. BGN, but what I can confirm for the time being, of course, that we are also this year, after the winter season, doing an analysis, as I said, and we will repair the most serious patched sections. If we have an increase in revenue, if we have enough budget, of course we will gradually rehabilitate the roads. For the time being, we have a minimum budget with which we are doing mostly on-going repairs, namely mending certain critically compromised sections of the road network. Otherwise you're right the road needs repair, but it also needs funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u286	The line, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u287	Dear Minister, definitely because of my objectivity, I would like to confirm that your answer simply does not satisfy me. More importantly, it does not satisfy our fellow citizens from both municipalities, and not just them. You did not mention this time in your reply to the wines, but all Bulgarian citizens in the same way pay their taxes and their fees. And you answered me, as you did over a year ago, and something about sympathy for the population in our area, but nothing will de facto happen. Even to some extent I was under the impression that the President of the National Assembly Mrs Tsacheva blushed at your response because we are in the same constituency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u288	Use your glasses, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u289	No, I got that impression, and I hope so, because otherwise the irresponsibility of Mrs. Minister, to a full extent, applies to you in this case as well. So I invite you, Madam President, and Minister Pavlova, when time permits, to take a look. Because this partial repair with a hundred tons of asphalt that spilled over there, and this cold milling, is an even bigger compromise of the precinct and nothing else. I would like to tell you that every Friday for one year there has been civil disobedience of those living in this area and the Russian road in Bulgaria is blocked. I am convinced that after today's reply the next time the blocking will be in front of your ministry, Mrs. Pavlova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u290	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u291	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry the hall is empty, but I'm turning around...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u292	Well, it's not empty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u293	Almost empty from 240 MPs we see how many MPs there are in the Chamber. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] This is none of my business, but only the questions raised by those present in the Chamber today are of total value as the total revenues of the Roads Agency, which we receive as total revenues for the repair of roads from the entire Republican network for all areas. I imagine if there were more questions. They're still for roads, and they're still necessary. This proves only one thing: with this aggression that we all provoke, we must unite and together seek a solution. The solution is how we redeploy budget funds for what we want to prioritize them first. The dispensation function of the state is aimed at a certain type of activities.. social, health and, of course, for the roads. Mostly, however, as you can see, the means of the roads are short. You don't think that as a minister responsible for the roads, I don't want to repair and rehabilitate the roads. I want to, and this time, and a lot of other roads, because a lot of roads need fixing. In the end, however, with the budget, with the funds we have, this is all we can invest back. Yeah, the budget, unfortunately, is enough to patch and patch. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u294	In fact, there will be no repairs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u295	Otherwise, I said: both for this time and for many other roads that need serious repairs, we will do what is necessary if we have revenue, if there is an increase in revenue from wine stickers, if there is an opportunity for the budget to support us yes, we will do the repairs we need to do. But the third-class roads to be rehabilitated are over 6,000 kilometers. You know, the resource is huge, the needs are huge. There are so many questions for a reason, but this is what the budget has and we are reinvesting not because we don't want to, but because we spend as much as we collect and receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u296	Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u297	Can I apologize because he's doing the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u298	You'll have a chance after my procedure. [[Laughter]] Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I stress the word "respectable" because respect strengthens statehood, respect between institutions, respect for everyone to watch their own work and not interfere with the work of others. That's why there's a separation of powers. Madam President, my remark is to you. In this aspect of thinking, you should make a sharp remark by Minister Pavlova that he allows himself to comment on the work of the National Assembly, his presence, whether and how many MPs there are here. This is probably an illustration that the lady does not understand the principles and mechanisms of parliamentary control. I don't want to speculate on whether he understands or doesn't understand his own work. But the minister who hid the most for the longest time did not come to parliamentary control, and gathered...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u299	No qualifications, Mr. Ermenkov! Isn't that what Mr. Yankov called me a moment ago to be strict and not to allow qualifications to be made?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u300	You're right, I apologize. I'll apologize to the Minister. The minister, who has raised the most questions, is already finding out the fact that 19 questions, which have long since the end of November, have not been answered, to determine the topic and how many MPs there are in parliament, without understanding that parliamentary questions and questions are from our voters to the minister and are therefore transmitted live so that our voters can hear the minister's reply, the number of MPs in parliament at the moment has no meaning whatsoever, you should interrupt it. Once again, I call on you: in Bulgaria everyone has become a habit of interfering with the work of the other Prime Minister in the judiciary, ministers in parliament. Do not allow it from the height of the stands in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u301	Mr. Ermenkov, we are at the end of the plenary week. Tiredness seems to be taking its toll. If I had to apply all the strictness to what was spoken by the parliamentary tribune, before a remark to the minister I had to make such a statement to the MP, who allowed himself to openly threaten with civil disobedience and protest, addressing the minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u302	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u303	Thank you for your consent, I'll do it from now on. Next is a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva on completion and repair of road III-403 Sevlievo Looking at the weather, there are 16 minutes more with declarations from the two parliamentary groups, this is the last issue of today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u304	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam Minister! My question to you is about completing the repair of the road Sevlievo I would recall that the renovations on this Republican road began in 2014 and within the first half of the year were completed 5.5 km from this road from km 35.300 to km 40.600. Unfortunately, in your government, repairs were interrupted and 2 million were used in the first part of the renovation. lv. I would like to remind you here that people have been waiting for decades for road repair because it was in too depreciated. Now there is a road of 12 km, which is well repaired and in good condition in half of it and unfinished in the part of the municipality of Pavlikeni. I must say that the greater burden on the road is precisely in the unrepaired part, because there, besides citizens, are moving goods and there is a constant movement of school buses to the villages of the municipality of Pavlikeni. My question to you is this. Do you intend to continue the repair of this road to be carried out, I believe, an important commitment to those living in the municipality of Suhindol and Pavlikeni to have a modern road, which was indeed made in half the district? In fact, this is about something started and it would be wrong to leave it in the condition in which it is currently unrepaired part of the road. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I allow myself to say that you have addressed us that today we have placed many requests for funds. Until now, at least for the regions of Northern Bulgaria, where we asked you questions, you made no commitment regarding the problems we have put before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u305	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Boyadjieva! Yeah, it's gonna need repairs this time. The total length is 11 km, 5 km are repaired, about 6 km remains to be repaired. The value of the finishing works for this section is 2.3 million. BGN, which were not provided by that decree. If you're saying that the busier part of the road hasn't been repaired, it means bad planning at that time for the colleagues who had to plan and be responsible for it. If that was the busier part, maybe it should have been started by it. Why wasn't it done, I can't tell. What I can say, as I have answered this and the previous questions, is that everything depends on the budget opportunities that we will have this year. Whether we can partially or completely repair the road and all the other roads that we have had the opportunity to hear about today as a wish and intention are both the desire and intent of the honourable Members, but so are our wishes. Only today's roads are worth 80 million, and the needs are enormous. Instead of repairing 2,000 km a year as much as we should be doing in order to fix the roads over the years, we are repairing about 100 km. These are the budget options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u307	Line, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u308	Mrs. Chairman! Madam Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer, because once again I would like to stress that it is about a path that has been started and it is right to be completed because things cannot be left in half. At the same time you have indeed spoken here about our demands, but I will repeat: we have not heard a single commitment, will anything be done in the areas from which we are elected in the National Assembly, against the backdrop that you are constantly saying that there is no money. There cannot be at least one commitment in this situation to be made on the demands that have been made today in parliamentary control. However, I remain in the hope that these road sections, which we have spoken about today, will be reviewed and paid attention, because there are people living there who need support from the state and expect to respond to their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-22.u309	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. Colleagues, that concludes parliamentary control for today. The next regular plenary session is on Wednesday 27 January 2016, starting at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
