ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, according to our adopted weekly programme, item one for today should be: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2017 Importer: Council of Ministers. The reports of the Committee on Budget and Finance have been submitted to the lead committee and the report of the Committee on Health. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u2	Madam President, please allow Mr. Glinka Komitov, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u4	♪ I can't believe under a budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602 01 66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At a meeting held on 3 November 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting of the Commission was attended by: Boyko Penkov Deputy Minister of Health and member of the Supervisory Board of NHIF, Dr. Ventsislav Grozev, Chairman of the Bulgarian Medical Union and representatives of the word organizations in health care. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister Penkov. 1. Revenues and transfers all: Total revenue and transfers of 3 452.8 million are expected to take place in the revenue part of the 2017 budget. BGN, or 241 million. lv. More than 2016. Health insurance revenues are proposed to amount to 3 413.8 million. lv. or 247,6 million. lv. more than 2016 From the total amount of health insurance revenue for 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The Commission therefore considers that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or 158,7 million. lv. More than 2016, and transfers to health insurance from the central budget of 1 134.1 million. BGN, or 88.9 million. lv. more than the transfer for 2016 From non-tax revenues: fines, penalties and penalty interest for 2017 is planned to occur 15,0 million. BGN, or by 0,45 million lv. in more than 2016 Transfers from the Ministry of Health to finance the costs of medicinal products are provided for vaccines and their implementation activities for the health activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act (HZ); for activities for health uninsured persons, including: complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance in patients with skin-veneric and psychiatric diseases; intensive treatment; activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act and the amounts under art. 37, para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. This is also the amount for 2016. 2. Expenditures and transfers all: Total expenditure and transfers for 2017 were estimated at 3 452.8 million. lv. This amount is 241 million. lv. more than the amount for 2016 In the framework of the proposed amount for total costs and transfers 3,452.8 million. BGN, only for expenses are 3,48.8 million. lv. and to provide transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and of budgetary undertakings which concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund are 4.0 million. lv. On the total cost, EUR 3 444.8 million. lv. For current expenditure, 3 101.3 million is offered. BGN, with this amount being greater by 223,9 million. lv. Of the same expenditure for 2016; for the acquisition of non-financial assets for 2017, 6,0 million are planned. BGN, or less by one million leva since 2016 From the amount of the current expenditure 3,101.3 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2017 are estimated at 3 032.0 million. BGN, or more by 222,8 million. lv. by the 2016 Act. These funds shall be allocated as follows: 1. for primary outpatient medical care 200.0 million lv. or 20,0 million. lv. more than 2016 2. for specialized outpatient medical care including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance 211.4 million. BGN, or with 9.9 million. lv. more than 2016 3. for dental aid 147,0 million BGN, or with 24,0 million. lv. more than 2016; 4. for medical-diagnostic activity 77.5 million EUR 7,1 million or EUR 7,1 million. lv. more than 2016 5. for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy in the conditions of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided are provided with 798.6 million. BGN, or with 47,7 million. lv. more than 2016, including: - for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the country is 573 million. lv. or 32.1 million. lv. more; - for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under hospital care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided 225,6 million. lv. Or 15 million. lv. more than 2016; - for medical devices administered in hospital medical care 80 million. lv. As many as they were in 2016; - for hospital care 1 billion. 457,5 million. BGN, or by 114,2 million. lv. more; - other health insurance payments with the Bill are offered an amount of 60 million. lv. The amount is the same as in 2016. The NHIF budget for 2017 proposed staff costs of 34,2 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of personnel expenditure in 2016 by 1.7 million. lv. For the maintenance of the administrative health insurance activities for 2017 it is proposed to spend the amount of 11,1 million. BGN, or 600,000. lv. less than 2016 The payments from the transfer from the Ministry of Health under para. 1 row 3 amounts to 24 million. BGN, or as much as they were for 2016, and they are intended for: - medicinal products supplied with vaccines and activities for their application under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act; - activities for health-insecure persons, including: complex dispensary surveillance in patients with skin and psychiatric conditions and intensive treatment; - activities for health-insecure women under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act; - amounts under art. 37, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act also provides for expenditure. The 2017 Bill for the acquisition of non-financial assets offers a cost of 6 million. lv. or by one million leva less than 2016 For a reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, 341.4 million has been provided. lv. or 24.8 million. lv. more than 2016 The National Health Insurance Fund Budget Bill proposes a balanced budget balance as has been adopted for the 2016 budget year. The President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Ventsislav Grozev presented the opinion of the Union, which insists on increasing the funds for outpatient care in connection with the implementation of the government's decision under Programme 2020 for the greater importance of the same. He pointed out that in this way peace and security will be ensured in the system and the idea of increasing the importance of extra-hospital assistance will be realized and extremely eased the cost-effective and costly hospital care. After the discussion, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister of Retire! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October In accordance with At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November, In 2016, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), Dr. Glinka Komitov, Governor of NHIF, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov He introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. The planned revenue and transfers amount to 3 billion. 452 million. 816 thousand. lv. The estimated number of the insured population for the country is around 6.2 million. Souls. The employer's pay ratio and the health insurance person's 2017 is 60-40. The planned costs and transfers amount to 3 billion. 452 million. 816 thousand. BGN, of which 3 billion 32 million. 500 leva. they're for health insurance payments. The planned funds provide for the purchase of medical assistance within the scope of compulsory health insurance guaranteed by the NHIF budget. Minister Moskov stressed that in 2017 the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, medical diagnostic activity, hospital medical care, dental care and medicinal products are increased. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act, is ten percent of the income collected from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and amounts to 341 million. 381 thousand. lv. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 was drawn up while maintaining the condition of a balanced budget balance. Minister Moskov explained that the draft proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the management of the funds for health insurance payments and improving the control activity of the NHIF and the Health Act, which introduced a special order to determine the amount of the minimum insurance amount in the compulsory insurance for liability. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by the Chairman of the word organization Dr. Ventsislav Grozev. It clarified that the expenditure part of the budget, although nominally increased by 248 million. BGN, is not planned in the necessary size, given the philosophy of the National Health Strategy and the concept of "Health goals 2020" and the strategic objectives set in these documents. The planned increase in the expenditure part of the 2017 budget is extremely insufficient with regard to the funds for health insurance payments for outpatient medical care. In conclusion, Dr. Grozev pointed out that the Bulgarian Medical Union insists on what was proposed by § 11, item 11. 1 of the bill supplemental in art. 59, para. 13 of the Health Insurance Act to be repealed. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union, Dr. Borislav Milanov, informed the MPs that the word organization supports the NHIF budget bill for 2017 and the dental aid funds provided for therein. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised specific questions regarding the possibility for the NHIF to ensure the provision of affordable and quality medical assistance to all health-insured Bulgarian citizens within the framework of the proposed budget for 2017. They stressed that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system without effective measures being taken to increase control and create mechanisms for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. All Members of the National Assembly agreed that in the second vote of the draft proposed by § 11, p. 1 of the Bill supplement in art. 59, para. The 13th sentence of the second sentence of the Health Insurance Act should be repealed, as well as the legal and technical editorial arrangements presented in the discussion. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Minister, thank you for being in this room whenever you want, I'll give you the floor. Dear colleagues, we are going into debate mode. Mrs. Daritkova wished first speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u8	Wouldn't one of the importers present the bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, due to the extraordinary situation in which we are placed in the adoption of these budgets, I allow myself, as President of the Committee on Health, as the legitimate functioning body is currently the National Assembly, to take the first position on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. I would like to appeal, as in the Commission, to the common sense and national responsibility of all MPs, both by the majority in charge and by the opposition, so that we can really not allow next year's budget vacation and ensure stability of all institutions, including the health insurance system. I believe that the planned budget for 2017 strongly guarantees the financial stability of the health insurance system in Bulgaria and ensures the possibility for any subsequent government that the Bulgarian people are able to carry out reforms according to the party's programme. Why do I think this budget is really better in its global part and enables the development of the health insurance model? First, the increase in the budget by 222 million is a fact. 752,000. 500 leva. in its share of health insurance payments in relation to the 2016 budget In primary outpatient medical care, the funds are more than 19 million. 983 thousand. lv. In specialized outpatient care, we have more than 9 million. 858 thousand. lv. Twenty-four million leva is more for dental help. Medico-diagnostic activity increased by 7 million. Fifty-nine thousand. lv. We also have an increase on medicinal products, medical devices, diet foods for special medical purposes, on home treatment, on medicinal products, on the treatment of malignancy under hospital medical care, by 47 million. 645 thousand. £600. In hospital medical care, the increase is the most needed by 114 million. 206,000. £900. In addition, we have funds for healthly uninsured persons, which guarantees complex dispensary surveillance in patients with skin and psychiatric diseases, as well as intensive treatment. The reserve was also increased by 24 million. 761 thousand. £600. The increase in funds is mandatory and will allow primary extra-hospital assistance to carry out its functions for early diagnosis, timely treatment and development of disease prevention, because this is laid down in the concept and objectives adopted by this National Assembly to achieve the maximum developed prevention network and activities, so that the overall health performance of the nation by 2020, which were relatively consensually adopted, can be achieved as a final result. I believe that within the framework of the funds thus adopted, it will be possible for people to have greater access to the so-called "governments" with the increase of funds in specialized outpatient medical care and to more medical diagnostic activities. Of course, the Bulgarian Medical Union, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the word organizations that agree on the parameters of the individual aids and activities that can be implemented are now under way. It will be a challenge, of course, and the Regulation on the package that needs to be implemented next year in order to really be able to ensure that the activity, which is guaranteed by these means, is aimed at a reasonable prevention, which is in line with the needs of the Bulgarian population and the demographic profile of the diseases that we have already established. I would like to emphasise in particular that the increase for dental aid is significant, which allows the possibility for a third dentist service to be maintained for the next year for persons over 18 years, which is a significant move forward in the development and improvement of dental assistance as part of the total health care in Bulgaria. On the other hand, I also spoke to the Commission, a significant remark of a conceptual and then of a legal and technical nature. I'll start with the conceptual remarks first. As I believe that the budget should primarily ensure a higher level of funding, I have an objection first to § 9, which requires the introduction of the requirement of the amount allocated to the reserve to be allocated to medicinal products, medical devices, diet foods for special medical purposes and hospital aid. The fact is that in general the highest health insurance costs of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund are precisely in these two directions. The introduction of this restriction could lead to difficulties in the activities of the National Health Insurance Fund and to the inability to further finance other activities that are mentioned in the National Health Strategy, namely primary outpatient medical care, specialized outpatient medical care. Last but not least, I would like to point out that, in recent years, in relation to all the fields of medical care, outpatient, specialized, medical-diagnostic activity, hospital, various mechanisms for control and cost limitation are introduced annually, but such mechanisms that work effectively with regard to the costs of medicinal products have not yet been established. I believe that this restriction will in no way improve the work of the National Health Insurance Fund and the medical care of health insured persons, which is why we are committed, if the Bill is adopted at second reading, to propose that it be dropped in the second reading material. The most controversial paragraph, which caused quite a sharp controversy in society, by the word organizations, which united the MPs from the various parliamentary groups, is with respect to § 11, with the introduction of the preliminary implementation of the Order for termination of contracts with medical aid contractors. The Motives to the Bill indicate that the proposed addition to art. 59, para. 13 is in order to protect the public interests, which must be prioritized to the interests of the addressee of the administrative act, as the hypothesis is provided for so far in art. 60, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code. It should be noted that the Motives of the Bill mainly focus on preserving the financial stability and solvency of the National Health Insurance Fund, which may in fact be the main motive for proposing this change in the provision of art. 69, para. Thirteen, sentence two. With the now proposed addition in art. 59 of the Health Insurance Act excluded the possibility of applying art. 166, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code under which the contested acts are suspended. The consequences of the proposed legislative solution may, in my opinion, be in different directions. First of all, I believe that the constitutional norm of art may be violated. 59, para. 3 under which citizens are entitled to health insurance guaranteeing them affordable medical care in cases where the medical aid provider whose contract has been terminated in whole or in part by means of a preliminary execution of the order is the only one in the territory of the locality of the municipality or the district. This argument is particularly valid for small towns and municipalities in which we still have a serious shortage of primary and specialized outpatient medical care as well as hospital medical care. I believe that this further violates the rights of medical aid contractors, since, in the event of an appeal and possible annulment of the order for termination of the contract, the latter may claim compensation for damage caused and forgone benefits from the unlawful termination of the contract and the admission of prior enforcement under the law, without taking into account the specifics of the cases, the specific facts and circumstances justifying the termination of the contract and therefore the existence of an advantage of the public interest. It should also be borne in mind that the NHIF policy in the years has always been aimed at preserving the financial stability of the Fund. A number of limits have been introduced, as well as limits on the volumes and prices of medical care, which are not entirely in line with the needs of health insured persons, but with the financial opportunities of the annual budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund. The performers of medical care over the years were entrusted with more obligations and responsibilities, and their rights were increasingly limited, including now with the introduction of the hypothesis of art. 60, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code in the Health Insurance Act. Last but not least, the fact that the caselaw over the years has shown that a number of administrative acts issued by the National Health Insurance Fund and the Regional Health Insurance Fund are subsequently revoked in the court of all institutions. In the light of these arguments, I believe that it is lawful and appropriate to remain the current provision of art. 59, para. 13, which allows the pre-execution of the order for termination of the contract to be allowed after assessing the existence of conditions under art. 60, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code. In view of the public importance of the activities of medical aid contractors, the specifics of each particular case should be taken into account and not the Law should allow for prior execution, automatically presuming that for all cases of termination of contracts the prerequisites of art. 60, para. 1 of the Administrative Procedure Code. This will also be in line with the general opinion of the parliamentary group, which I represent, that we should strengthen trust in the health system with all the legislation and in no case remain the suggestion that only crimes are committed in Bulgaria's healthcare system. There work extremely good specialists who daily save lives and who patients can absolutely trust. I think that the common commitment of all of us as parliamentarians is to strengthen trust in Bulgaria's health system, because it is a guarantee for its successful functioning. In the Bill, I can also point out, of course, many other legal and technical errors which, between first and second readings, must be categorically removed. It is a question of non-compliance within the deadlines, of terms that forward our decisions from this Bill for the following year, of discrepancies between the provisions of the Health Insurance Act and the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, concerning the possibility that the National Health Insurance Fund may distribute volumes of activities between the individual health care contractors. I have sought the opinions of the Cashier and the Ministry regarding this compliance, but I have not yet received a specific answer as to what is the decision for next year, because, providing for the distribution of volumes in this Law to be abolished, the Health Insurance Act as a basic law includes this allocation. We will put the Cashier's Supervisory Board in a position to violate its legally amended powers in terms of the Health Insurance Act. This misunderstanding between first and second readings must be clarified, because the Supervisory Board of the Casa has a great responsibility to function in full compliance with the regulations that define the structure of the health insurance model in Bulgaria. I would also like to point out a subject which is not quite within the scope of the proposed Bill, but which is addressed in each of the Court of Auditors' recent reports on the activities of the Court of Auditors. These audit reports on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund found that the administered public funds NRA collects a service fee only from the National Health Insurance Fund, which puts the Fund at a disadvantage compared to other public and private insurance funds. I would like to remind you that the National Revenue Agency is administering contributions to state social security, health insurance, the Teacher's Pension Fund, and the supplementary pension funds. I believe that this is an issue which should be reconsidered and that the necessary action should be taken to eliminate the inequalities of the National Health Insurance Fund in this regard. To conclude, I would like to say that, in this term of office, the sector is also subject to considerable controversy in a number of serious requests for reforms, but unfortunately with a modest result. In the coalition format of government we from the political party GERB were correct and constructive partners. In discussing key decisions as President of the Committee on Health, I have sought agreement between us, representatives of the Reformation Block, the Patriotic Front and the ABB. In the Commission, we have managed to reach a consensus even with opposition parliamentary representatives, and I believe that this is the right path. No one knows what the will of the people will be or what the next parliament will look like. But I call on those who will be tasked with making health policy in the next term not to start with revenge and complete denial. This brings a small and fast-moving political dividend. I call for the unification of the efforts of sensible political experts in the various formations to draw the sustainable path for changing the sector! I am convinced that finding a non-partisan consensus on reforms is the best treatment for our ill health system. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? I won't. The next person to sign up for a speech is the public representative Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Glinka Komitov, honourable colleagues! I will support this budget, but I think it is appropriate to indicate a number of weaknesses in it. Once again, we must support a budget that is presented in value only. By the way, I will not stop repeating that this is a vicious practice created over the years by the NHIF, whether by the NHIF, or by the state social security, or by the state budget, to be presented to the MPs only in value, but without the applications in the natural indicators, something that is extremely important, because it is the natural indicators that every economist, the budgeter knows that they are the basis for comparative analysis and for assessing the work done. That is precisely why my first remark is that we are once again receiving a budget of the NHIF, which lacks an impact assessment and at all an assessment of the effectiveness of the previous budget, which is not good. Dr. Glinka, I'm going to give you an example that hasn't been accounted for in this budget. If a citizen, since I did this personally to make sure that the complaints of the citizens are true, decides, due to a change of address registration, to change his personal physician, to enter into an interesting situation. Most citizens go to the office of the National Health Insurance Fund on Street. It is difficult to find in most cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u12	We can do it electronically.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u13	It's not electronic. Only fairy tales and a book turned out to be electronic, dear Dr. Daritkova. No, you can't. Listen to me so you can understand. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Listen to me so you can understand! I said it's written in a book that's completely different from what's actually happening. There you are greeted by a kind little girl who has prepared herself in advance with an address sheet that you should go to Street. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man Now, notice, the whole absurdity! When I asked the girl, "Why can't I pass this data to you?" she said to me, "Because you have to go to Street." And from there, a courier company will return your data to us to enter it here with us. And then with a courier company, we'll take them back to Street. In order to send you a letter that you have changed your doctor. Here, it's an electronic thing. Here, this is it, the doctor's electronic replacement! I did this exactly a month ago. Just a month ago! I can bring you my letter and the little girl's note in the car to convince you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u14	Go get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u15	There's no record of anything else. The National Health Insurance Fund continues to be housed in the property of private property, for which a serious rent is paid. Isn't that right, Dr. Komitov? However, this has not been taken into account either. That is, the state, the Ministry of Health for two years in this direction has taken nothing to save a serious expense and at last the National Health Insurance Fund is really in possession of property that gives it a chance for normal work, because there the conditions for me are insane. Isn't that right, Dr. Komitov? That's right! This thing, however, is not in the budget. What's so great about budget? It is the result of the populists from the Patriotic Front, and it is that once again there is an increased collection and it provides an increased collection of 158 million BGN. of health insurance contributions. That's what we populists from the Patriotic Front did in 2015. I won't stop repeating it. Only when we raise revenue, everything is silent and not populist. And now, grave silence! When we do the good things, we are populists and we keep quiet when we want to increase our pension, we suddenly become populists and speak out famous and unknown professors who don't even have a hal-haber from the insurance system and a social system. Even if they'd bothered to read at least two NSI reports, then they'd have to talk. Dear Minister, I have an interesting letter in my pocket. Mr. Prime Minister said a few days ago that he had received two breaches of health care and education. Here, this letter gathers the gaps in these two spheres of health care and education. This is a rejected, open letter from 100,000 Bulgarian teachers. On 24 October 2016, Dear Minister, you made changes to Regulation No 4, in particular in Article 4. 5 You have placed 100 000 Bulgarian teachers in a humiliating position each year to appear on a psych test and on 1 September to present a document that they are not dangerous to the lives of Bulgarian children.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u16	Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm going to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u17	Wait a minute! Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u18	On the subject, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u19	Please don't interrupt me, because that's on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u20	I'm looking for a connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u21	Listen to me and you'll find her!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u22	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u23	What's the whole simple story? By forcing 100,000 Bulgarian teachers by the way, Minister, have you passed a psych test in these two years?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u24	And you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u25	Mr. Bayraktarov, don't come in...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u26	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u27	Mr. Bayraktarov, I'll take your word for it! You're taking the liberty of doing anything you don't want to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u28	I'm not doing anything. I'm asking Mr. Minister a question. The purpose of this event is to force 100 000 Bulgarian teachers to be administratively forced through art. 5 of this Regulation No 4.. note that it was adopted on 24 October 2016, when we were all committed to elections here, and to form one revenue from the great 2 million. lv. on the back of the Bulgarian teacher and at the same time we will say that we will increase their salaries. That's the point. Therefore, I call on you to cancel this article immediately. 5. Otherwise, I have enough good lawyers to disprove this Ordinance and this article in court, and I will also refer to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u29	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u30	Because under art. 120 of the Constitution, Mrs. Daritkova, the prosecution has the right to carry out a verification of the legality and, in the event of discrimination, of a sign of office. But that's a long way off for you. Let's move on. Dear Minister, an increase in the budget of NHIF 250 million. lv. Any of you Members of the National Assembly know, for example, what is the state of the medical institutions, what are their duties? No! But today you will vote! I heard a 15-minute boy talk here. The only ones who are exemplary are from the Bulgarian dental union. This is the example by which the whole system will begin at all. There's no such information. There is no information on what are the obligations towards European countries on health insurance commitments, how much are these obligations already equal to? There's information that's 170 million. EUR, that is 250 million. Euros. I can't say and I'm not going to say because there's no such public information. I strongly express my solidarity with the opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union to increase the funds for outside hospital care, as this is one of the approaches to reducing costs in hospital treatment. I'll give you one more example. Here I agree with Dr Daritkova on this insane decision in § 11. Why is the decision insane? In fact, the introduction of pre-execution is purely self-reacting with awkward and certain kinds of medical facilities. To understand me now, I'll give you an example, since I've been dealing with this case for two months. A few years ago, a new standard for treating cancer patients was introduced. This new standard practically deprives a large part of Bulgarian doctors, for years treating people with cancer, of the opportunity to exercise their profession. It came to a paradox that a Bulgarian doctor who has been head of the National Cancer Centre for 17 years, to be told him precisely by these examiners from the Ministry's audit, by the NHIF, that he has no right to exercise his profession. It was necessary that the person by court and by judgment to prove that he is a qualified doctor and has the right to treat cancer patients. What is the result of this standard? The result is that to date the Bulgarian state has, according to this standard, 32 specialists who have the right to treat 450,000 cancer patients according to this standard. Come on, now imagine why this repression is already going to certain health care facilities, so I won't mention names so that someone doesn't blame me for doing advertising, why the introduction of pre-execution? Because one of these productions usually runs for two or three years, and through that, this health care center is completely bankrupt. I mean, he's already been erased from the map just because he doesn't like himself on a convicted clerk or a minister or anyone else. Yes, I know, colleague Semir Abu Melih, we've always been of the same opinion with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u31	Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, let's extend the time because it's over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u32	Yeah, extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u33	Please extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u34	Here, these are your things. I know they don't like each other, but they have to be said. Between first and second reading this text should simply disappear because it is the racket bat and remove uncomfortable faces. I'll stop here so that if one of my colleagues wants to speak, he can have time. But I think that's enough. If you have not received the letter, I will present it to you once again, Mr. Minister, to cancel art. 5 of Regulation No 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u35	Dr. Shishkov, first line. Please don't engage in informal debates and relationships, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u36	Dear colleagues, just one clarification. What does populism mean? A hundred thousand signatures can't be signed by teachers, they're 85,000 all over the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u37	Second line? You are welcome to join the people's representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, you are talking about populism and lack of it, and on the other hand, you are talking about the psych tests of teachers. I have two children and I want to know that the teacher who teaches them is fit to train them, not that he's in some kind of mental disorder or something happened to him. When it comes to children, we cannot say: in one direction or another. So the proposal, I think, is very regular to know who teaches our children. Not to wait for some drama somewhere, to become some kind of problem with a teacher who couldn't contain his nerves or something happened for a number of reasons, and then say, "Oh, what happened?" Why did this happen? Let them be checked, as they bear great responsibility. The profession is respected, important, but we need to know who teaches our children and whether they are mentally fit to do so. Because if someone has problems, they shouldn't, because with children, they need special attention, patience, approach and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Third line? A hole, Mr. Bayraktarov. My request is on the topic of the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u40	Dear colleagues, colleague Shishkov, the number 101 thousand was earned by the Ministry of Education. If it's not true, it's not so fatal if it's 101 or 85,000. It's the principle that counts. Colleague Ananiev, I'm a former professor. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, children, because by the age of 18 all Bulgarian citizens are children. I have no case in my practice, and by talking to fellow teachers, to have ever been introduced into the history of Bulgaria a psychologist of the Bulgarian teacher. By the way, you, Commissioner Ananiev, on the Constitution have one huge obligation and it is to represent the entire Bulgarian people. By the way, I'd like to ask you: have you presented a psych test to the National Assembly? Because we offered to make one, but it was rejected! It was rejected! So, Commissioner Ananiev, don't talk to me nonsense because turning the Bulgarian teacher of presumption into a criminal and dangerous for the life of the Bulgarian child is the least immoral! And then it's a shame, so it doesn't honor you. You have two children, and I have three children. And all of you here are raised by a Bulgarian teacher and none of you are harmed by a Bulgarian teacher. So take it easy. Take it easy. Once you start a psych test and enter into the Rules of Organisation a psychotest for MPs, a drug test for MPs, a alcohol test for MPs, when they come to work, also apply to ministers, then we can put in place an equal lead. However, for your reference, a driver who is a driver of a public transport bus, which every day, almost every minute of his working time is responsible for the lives of the passengers he carries, performs such a test every three years. And for the last time, to make it clear, I would ask you to ask the new president to also take a test because he is in charge and commander-in-chief. How do we know that, according to your words, he's not going to declare war on anyone tomorrow because he's dangerous, too. [[Heckling]] But you're not talking there. It doesn't matter left, right, whoever it is, it's the principle, it's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Next statement, Mr. Semir Abu Melih, to prepare Dr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Dr. Komitov! Today, as every consecutive year, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is adopted. Nothing new under the sun. There is a system that serves Bulgarian citizens, which next year will have about 200 million and more money for their health. And that's it. Otherwise doctors and medical staff continue to be dissatisfied with this system, patients continue to be dissatisfied with this system, the MPs are also unhappy with this system, the political leaders are also unhappy with this system and the philosophy of the health system in the Republic of Bulgaria is confused at all. It's not the first time you've heard it from me, and it won't be the last time. But here is the moment in these days, the last of the National Assembly, to tell each other what we failed to do. We MPs failed to get outside the framework of our political forces in the discussion about Bulgarian healthcare. Each of us remained encapsulated within his political power and recognized the other for nothing! Instead of finding consensus between the representatives of the left, of the BSP, of the DPS, of the reformers, of the patriots, all representatives of the Bulgarian people who are gathered here and beyond the policy scale to make a decision to carry it out by the Minister of Health, Dr. Moskov, or anyone else, and to walk in a line of conduct that will last 10-20 years, we have remained encapsulated. Our representatives went out and spoke against the representatives of the BSP in the field of healthcare for past years, they rose up and spoke against our, at all empty talk that led to nothing! The result of all these efforts is nothing! There's an increase of 200 million that's thanks to something completely different. This is the growth of the economy, the Bulgarian economy. There are more people who get bigger salaries, pay bigger payments, and there's more money. As well as the state began to pay its obligations to civil servants to some extent. That's why there's an increase. So what? That's what happens every year. See what happens if you are interested, after this National Assembly is closed and there is not a single MP here who will become and ask the next Minister of the Service, we are not in principle entitled to ask the Health Insurance Fund, to ask the next person responsible for Bulgarian healthcare what is going on in the sector in the next six months. Look what we're betting. Very interesting. Economists here at the National Assembly to hear me. Three and a half billion leva is in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Bank, clean bank! Three and a half billion leva! We all give the Supervisory Board the right of several people, they are four or five, to make their own rules on how to spend this money.................................................................................... 4, para. 4: The NHIF's Supervisory Board shall adopt conditions and arrangements for the implementation of para. This is the spending of the money. Can you imagine what this is about?! You leave three and a half billion leva like this and five people gather and make rules tonight! It's a waste of time! This isn't serious! We give the Supervisory Board right at the very moments that come next year when there will be no elected government, but there will be a service government, there will be no National Assembly, we give it in itself to decide the allocation and validation of values under point. 1 point (a) and (b) of point (b) of point (c) of point (c) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (c) of point (c) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (ii) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (c) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point (i) of point Where's that thing?! What economic logic is involved here?! Tell me, for God's sake, what economic logic is involved: the one who spends the money to tell him: I give you the right to spend it any way you want. Why?! On what grounds? The exceptional indicators that have been shown so far by the Bulgarian health system?! There must be changes here! I would be extremely pleased if they were proposed by the National Health Insurance Fund itself. She can say that. I'm not accusing anyone of embezzlement, but it's an open door, you can go through it without asking. As you go, trip and enter the door of abuse. Yeah, that happens. Therefore, it is not bad the Health Insurance Fund itself, especially Dr. Komitov, because we have chosen him, I have voted for him, to propose what texts to enter here to ensure transparency about spending the money. The next elected government may not be until May. It went half the year, half the year mine-gone! Right?! That's one. The other more important thing. I'm addressing the next MPs. Some of them are in this room, others are outside, but they will be MPs. I'm addressing the next Minister of Health, who may be in this room, may be outside this room. This health system no longer works, it cannot serve the needs and challenges of Bulgarian healthcare. It's old, it's old. Every day pharmaceutical companies come up with new drugs that improve the health of our population. Every day, large factories take out a new technique and equipment that detects and cures diseases. These are very expensive apps, very expensive! You cannot welcome these expensive applications with this system. Not that she's bad. If you take out the indicators of our health care system now and compare them to the western ones how much money we spend and how much money they spend, you will see that we are not very bad. But there's a limit to that, because the need, the client of the system itself, is already asking. He doesn't say, "My grandfather has gone, God rest his soul, at 60 years old, young. I won't. People ask: "Why? " Why didn't the ambulance come? Why wasn't there any tech at the hospital? Why weren't there drugs at the hospital? Why were there no trained specialists at the hospital? This is the new reality that's normal and that's how it has to be! Therefore, our system no longer responds to these challenges. That's what we need to realize, and we shouldn't be afraid at all and say that demonopolising the cassata is the solution, it's not a bad thing. I turn to the Socialists: demonopolization does not mean that everything will become private, that the poor will die and the rich will live. It's not like that, it's the other way around! Equal force distribution is good. Look, send a delegation to Western Europe to see how health care is going where the system is demonopolitanized. Go to Holland, see how people are treated. Why? Apparently, people realized that a long time ago, and we're still chewing it here. We can't understand philosophy. Don't! Future MPs, future MPs, before you is a huge challenge. The next National Assembly should succeed and find a non-partisan consensus and move on to a new system that can meet the needs of the Bulgarian, give it a greater longevity, better health, be prepared for physical and mental work, so that it can produce for its country, not to go around hospitals and wait in the queues, not to wonder which MP to call, to find a link to enter a hospital to cure it properly. I'm sure each one of you has received such a call. It's proof that this system doesn't work. Each one of you who has helped someone get into a hospital and receive adequate treatment proves itself that the system is not working. Enough! Look where we are with our unified system! We're making changes in art. 59 in the Health Insurance Act, where without a court decision, we can close a hospital or a cabinet. Can you imagine the measures we're already going to?! It's not because someone is inadequate, it's not an act of inadequacy, it's a powerless act. I have nothing else to do to control the system and get it into the financial framework, so with the bat on everyone's head! That's it! It doesn't speak in favor of the system, the Cashier, but it's proof that the system can't actually work. There is a wisdom that says, "If I don't want to be a slave, I shouldn't try to be a master." The health fund should not be a master, otherwise it will become a slave to the Bulgarian health system and will not realize that it is already trapped in the health system, not vice versa. Save the Cashier, save the finances of the Bulgarians while it is early! A consensus can be reached. After all, the topic has been chewed for a very long time and I sincerely hope that the next MPs will be wise enough to do so. Good luck to you all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Abu Melih. - What's the line? Mr. Chakarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u44	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Abu Melih, I take the floor for a line, in view of the fact that I cannot not support much of what you have said, but at the same time I would also like to make some comments, which I hope you will respond dignifiedly, as you have said. I can't help but welcome your position on the approach that both you and Assoc. Shishkov you propose, but correctness is supposed to say that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has long spoken of a non-party consensus and consensus approach with regard to healthcare, and not only for health care, but to have a demonopleization of the Casa and so on. Let's face all our fellow citizens so that the healthcare system can function properly. The diagnosis that you put here today in front of all of us is very disturbing. The chaos in health care is very serious. With regard to the powers of the NHIF Supervisory Board, which you said, they are. But I ask the question: who voted these powers? What was our position of the DPS, to remind you and all who are in this room? We must properly present our position to all our fellow citizens. You said the system didn't work. Something we said. Chaos is total. All that is proposed are administrative measures with regard to restrictions and limitation. This has not led to any reform, it is evident, and it is also a fact from your speech. From now on, however, we all need to take a very responsible approach, to have a non-party consensus on the extremely serious health theme of all of us, of the entire nation. This is how it should be handled, and I hope it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u45	Thank you. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u46	As a matter of fact, in the DPS, you have always maintained this line of behavior. This is the demonopolization of the Casata, and you have had a radical solution for Bulgarian healthcare, which is borrowed from many Western practices, which have proven to be correct. In short, your decision you propose is correct. That's not the problem. The problem is the DPS is offering it. Do you understand? Your decision is correct 100%, I've said it here and in committees and everywhere. It's not wrong. The problem is the DPS is offering it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u47	You suggest it yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u48	Here, look, even I am now, accidentally going back to the political statement, the DPS is offering it. And I re-entered my GERB shell and put you in your DPS packaging. It's a mistake. Your decision is correct. There are other political forces in this National Assembly that have the same decision. It's officially in their forms. That doesn't mean they're coalition partners. No. This means that all work and have found a better solution for the health of the Bulgarians. Nothing more, nothing less. That's why I congratulate you on what you did. May God have more political powers to borrow this idea from you and from other political forces who are here. Reformers have the same idea, patriots have the same idea. I think the BDC has the same idea. [[Heckling]] Yeah, and the ABCs do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u49	Only GERBs don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u50	Well, it's the whole National Assembly. Then why didn't you suggest it? Anyway, it doesn't matter. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u51	Not only to offer it, but to fulfill it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u52	It can be done. There will be a minister here to fulfill it. That's not a problem. [[Radio.]] About the authority of the supervision of the Health Insurance Fund. Doctor, these powers have always been this way. And in the last law, they were in the past and the past. It gives them operational work. But there has always been a National Assembly to counter. If an incident occurs, there is abuse, any representative of the people can come out of this tribune and illuminate this abuse. In this case, we are currently entering a period where the National Assembly is locked up and there is no one here to watch over these 3 and a half billion. So I say that this part of the Law right now under the circumstances that our country is going through must be very precise. I repeat my appeal to Dr. Komitov to give some solutions because he is best aware of how things are going, to accept it between first and second readings and things to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u53	Thank you. The word is from the people's representative Emil Reinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. resigned Minister, Mr. Director of the National Health Insurance Fund! The NHIF budget again! This year, the budget of the NHIF is all about the part of the expenditure, but I will start with the revenue part of the budget being underestimated in the transitional part itself. And the understatement comes precisely in the number of health insured persons, where the NHIF draft budget gives 6.2 million. BGN, while the NRA gives a very figure of 2.5% more. So this means, dear colleagues, that next year, as this year, there will be a little more money in the revenue section, which, however, in the way that colleagues speak, I hope not so opaque will be distributed by supervision of the Casa. This is very disturbing for me personally. Otherwise, the cost situation is very well known. Yeah, clearly 247 million. lv. more. However, the data on the actual implementation of the budget of this year, or at least for the first three quarters, the nine-month period, by the end of September, are not shown. And then it would shine something else.. you will see how this goes dramatically away with the actual performance to date. I'll give you a few examples. The first example is that on my question to the Ministry of Health: What are the obligations of the National Health Insurance Fund to foreign funds? lv. Honourable Members, only 60 million are provided for next year. lv. Here's a hole that opens up. Secondly, as shown by the Stenograms of Oversight, this is what I said in the Health Commission "Read these shorthands," they are a very interesting reading to see how decisions are made in this Supervision, at this point the decisions for over 3 billion money. You can only see there in the last month with nearly 100 million. lv. increased drug costs. The budget for medicines for home treatment increased by 54 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. Oncolleagues increased to 240 million. lv. So, colleagues, in short, with the 247 million. BGN, with which we are kidding at the moment, that will be so wonderful and good, is trying to cover a hole, which from the moment it is obvious that it is 440 million. lv. I will not stop myself from deciding how this budget has been adopted. The meeting itself, colleagues, of the supervision of the Cashier, has been convened in less than 24 hours. This condition is not fulfilled when the meeting is called. Another point is that the meeting is being convened by fax by the Ministry of Health. The budget itself is given to the supervisors at 10.12 p.m. and the meeting is at 11.00 p.m. Colleagues, I don't have it here to show you what the Cashier's budget is. Do you think one of the parole officers in 30 minutes has been able to read it, see it, see what's going on?! Dear colleagues, this explains these differences in the budget. The budget is made up of errors, and it does not even reflect correctly the recent amendments to the Health Insurance Act, which we all adopted together. The other topic of November 1st in hospitals can now be entered only with a fingerprint. This excludes the theory of reporting any fictitious activity. The notorious drain of hospitals can't happen. Colleagues, the publicly announced motive for introducing the limits for stopping draining is now invalid. Since the need to introduce limits to hospitals has already dropped out, why are we talking here again about limits to hospitals? Colleagues, this can't help but doubt that these limits, in fact they are not doubts, it is already obvious, are used as a bat for bad hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u55	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u56	They're used as a puppet for good hospitals. We are aware, we all know that this year the limits of some hospitals have been updated several times. What's going on, guys? Why is that? What do you mean? Colleagues, in hospital aid, overlimic activity, you remember last year nearly 60 million. BGN, and this year there are 20 million. BGN, not paid. Although I don't accept that term. This is an activity carried out, an unpaid activity. Activity carried out, verified, invoiced. It doesn't pay off. Why? Colleagues, we are aware that non-payment of the duties of the cashiers to hospitals is automatically transferred to an increase in the obligation of hospitals? And when we talk that hospital duties have already exceeded 500 million. BGN, that's not bullshit. You know that Bulgarian healthcare is currently practically bankrupt? It's only a matter of time before some nervous delivery guy starts stalling the bills, and the domino effect will achieve all health care. I'm talking about public health, I'm talking about public health. Very interesting appears in the budget a paragraph claiming that no later than 31 March next year a decision can be taken on the allocation of 90% of the reserve for medicines and hospital care. Colleagues, why do the a priori reserve have to be said to go for medication and hospital care? The reserve in the Law!? Well, if that's how it's gonna be, let's get this reserve scattered on feathers and nailed here in parliament, where the control is, and not provide this golden opportunity with one reserve cassata to do whatever it wants. For § 11 I think that you have all talked enough about how the challenge must not stop the execution of the termination order. Colleagues, where's the presumption of innocence? I would apply another thesis that maybe this is a way for the Cashier to reschedule in time payments. Because it's clear to everyone that this thing will fall into court and the Cashier will have to pay those debts, along with interest. However, this will be next year, perhaps pό next, with another Oversight, with another Director, with another Minister, with another budget. Or that's kind of like the thesis on the main and additional package of one case, we're putting off two months' payments for the extra package. Colleagues, most importantly, said by everyone before me "This paragraph creates the perfect prerequisite for corruption, the perfect bat "Pay or terminate your contract. Why, colleagues? Why, colleagues? You're smiling, aren't you? When you know it, say it pó in time. There are no new policies in this budget! This budget will continue the trend of restricted access to patients not only in outpatient but also in hospital care. It will continue to make patients more and more money out of their own health care pocket. Those of you who are following things must have read yesterday's latest results of Transparency without Borders. " 60% of the Bulgarian people believe that there is corruption in health care and 16%, dear colleagues, directly within this year, have asked for money for health care. The next, in this budget for the last time, you can see the lack of control! I'd call it otherwise the reluctance to control. The explanation continues that this is not happening because there are no legal grounds and there are hardly any further amendments and changes to the Health Insurance Act. Colleagues, when a man will not do his job, he will make thousands of suggestions. Control, Mr. Abu Melih. The tales of privatization, private, state-owned, have no meaning. Control! The example in the Netherlands is all private, in Sweden everything is state, even funding is budget. In both countries, people are happy with health care, but there is control there for a lev where they go, you know! As long as we don't have this thing. Honourable Members, this budget cannot guarantee the work of the National Health Insurance Fund, it cannot fulfil its main function under the law of providing health insured persons with access to quality and timely health care. Finally, honourable Members, this budget for the last time clearly shows that in the past two years in the sector...................... there has been absolutely nothing good. Another two lost years in the sector! Dear colleagues, should I remind you of the limits, the waiting lists, even the oncological ones? The debts of hospitals have already been said, the holding of the National Health Insurance Fund. Dear colleagues, the Cashier is currently on direct management of the Minister of Health, of direct manual management! The budget that is being proposed today is the budget which has been tabled and prepared by the Minister of Health. Don't you get that? It's 5 to 12! Did you understand, fellow Members, that in 16 years of 1999 when the health insurance model started in Bulgaria, when from budget funding we went through fund financing, from hard budget salaries we went through the money followed the patient. Sixteen years! Last year we turned a full circle and returned to budget funding to the minister who distributed the budgets and the money. Here is the question: does the National Health Insurance Fund need? Should the Minister through nine people Oversight allocate the budget, but not take one department in the Ministry, three financiers, one "Governor 16" and do this job, which, apropo, was done until 1998. In those two years we passed, colleagues, from a bar fight to hospital principals through the registration of each patient as a criminal with the fingerprint, or perhaps the exact term was an authenticator. We went through the mega-unity of hospitals that were going to cut costs would have improved health care. I think nothing of the sort, honourable Members, has happened to end up with what is being proposed today. And hospitals and them a priori to accusing them of being criminals. We stop everything without the right to appeal. We went through the attempt to turn Bulgaria into an Pharmacy of the whole of Europe. This didn't happen, we only brought it to Turkey's Pharmacy. Vaccines, colleagues, imports of unauthorised, illegal production into a Member State of the European Union. You can't forget that! And we come to the nail for these two years "the attempt to divide the Bulgarian people into two categories of people, not poor and rich, not because of religious ways, not because of residence, but because of the package of basic and additional. Thank God this has been stopped and the re-experience can't happen. Colleagues, the resigning minister managed to put and really left a finger, a fingerprint in Bulgarian healthcare, but with yesterday's resignation I think the whole Bulgarian people rested from the experiment Moskov. Finally, quite friendly, naturally, to colleagues from GERB, and especially to fellow doctors from GERB, in which during the past two years the party discipline has struggled to support what the chief said, to support the most insane ideas and the Hippocratic oath. Deep down, colleagues, admit it after yesterday and you rested. In fact, we also see this in the statements that.. only today, you woke up two years later and saw the truth. Where have you been for two years, colleagues? Two lost years! Colleagues, this budget is yours, the government's. This is not our budget. Our budget will be when we win the election when we define the policy. This budget is yours and you will bear the consequences of it. Therefore, we will not support it and I say from the stand that between first and second readings we will not make any proposals. It's your responsibility, colleagues, and you can't run away from it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u57	Thank you. There are three lines. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! For Dr. Raynov's statement, I cannot say anything wrong because he made a chronological assessment of what happened in the last two years. I agree with most of the speech, but I would like to say here that this budget that we are currently looking at is not the state budget but the public casa budget. The register is public, Dr. Raynov, you know that. Since I know that you are going to replicate me here, you have also taken up the theme of the Health Insurance Fund, and because I am a memorable person, you, as Deputy Minister, have been in the management of the Health Insurance Fund since 2005. That is, for the first time, a precedent was set for the ruling Deputy Minister to be also in the management of the Health Insurance Fund. So much for that. As far as opportunities are concerned, I would like to say that our society is developing economically, but healthcare is an extremely conservative area that requires not only words but also deeds. All the political forces, all the people who work in the field of health, we cannot separate ourselves from what we are, but to have one association of experts in individual political parties to gather and reach consensus on the reform of health, such as it, as we know, is used mostly for political purposes, election campaigns, and in fact it concerns all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Raynov, I know that your power has possessed you right now. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But in my opinion, the mind and that you are a doctor, and all the doctors here who are from the Health Commission do not give us the right to leave the Bulgarian people in the following year without a budget to be updated, as you know, a twelfth. I'm graduating, just one second. Thank you. I want to say one more thing. At the moment, running away from the responsibility to support the budget, as you know and the government is resigning, we cannot put the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria at risk and threaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Valentin Pavlov has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Dr. Komitov! I will start my reply to Dr. Raynov with the first sentence of the reasons that were presented to us for the bill: The project of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 is drawn up in accordance with the budgetary framework and is balanced. It ensures the package of health insurance activities in the scope of compulsory health insurance, as compared to the Law for 2016, 247 million additional funds were provided for the NHIF in 2017. Dear Mr. Raynov, in your speech, you are once again trying to manipulate people and to say that the 247 million is a blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. I would like to ask you, because I am convinced that you have carefully read the Health Insurance Budget Project, is the increase in primary outpatient medical care by nearly 20 million, is specialized outpatient medical assistance where the increase is over 10 million, is the increase in dental aid by 24 million? And here, because I see in the Chamber the President of the Dental Union would be nice to invite you to a congress or a board of the Dental Union and there to say that this 147 million is bullshit to dentists and patients. I'm not going into the details, because in the end, these 247 million are an increase for 2017. It is high time, honourable Members, that we think not politically and populistically. It is high time to think about people's health, it is high time to think about those working in the healthcare system, about our children, who we all talk about at all times about the future of Bulgaria. Let us finally put our narrow party interests behind us and put the health of our patients above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pavlov. The third line is Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u62	Dear Mr. Raynov, everything you have said in support of the thesis that this system can no longer serve Bulgarian healthcare and should be demonised our health system. Because all you've defined is the identifier, other measures that have been taken, they are administrative measures to control this system of ours. All these measures we see do not produce effective results. On the other hand, you don't have satisfied patients or satisfied doctors, or satisfied MPs, satisfied hospitals and so on. So the idea is already from here on out, you said what you had to say, we said what we had to say, the future is in your hands! From now on, it is nice to initiate a party meeting between all political forces, where to come up with consensus for the next stage in our development. Notice, by setting out the parties that want to demonopolist, these are all the smaller parties in the National Assembly without BSP and GERB. Can you imagine? All small parties say yes, demopolization is the solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u63	They are therefore small parties to be small responsibilities. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u64	Mr. Chairman, look, it's not like that! It's not like that! It makes sense what you're saying, but there's one thought of a very famous American socialist who says good ideas have always been with minorities, and the majority has crushed them. I don't remember his name exactly. In short, there is nothing wrong with opening up the next stage to prepare it from now on. Understand, you won't win a single vote from health care. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's no political benefit to it. There's only harm!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u65	Mr. Raynov has the floor for the back. In the United States they cannot understand the health system, I do not know if in Bulgaria everyone can think the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Ivanov, memory is a good thing. You have to remember! However, until 2009, when I was President of Oversight, the Law was another "over Oversight," then it was called the Board of Directors, there was a Control Board, there was a Meeting of Representatives of 36 people over the Board of Control. Back then, the Cashier was independent and public. I have reported the budget to the Control Board, which could have stopped my decisions, that is, not me, the Oversight, the Management Board. The biggest drama was when we were supposed to go to the Assembly, representatives of the Assembly, thirty-six people, employers, municipalities, trade unions. There people wanted to see where the budget was going, how it was going, where the budget was being adopted, where the budget was being accounted for, and the Ministry did not have to. That's the direct difference. Oh, one more thing. The Chairman of the Board of Directors was elected by a board of directors and was not appointed, ergo, two weeks ago with a ministerial decree, past signature in seventeen to five, right? Do you understand the difference? [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy, coworker. The budget is yours, of your government, of your Council of Ministers, because it comes here, supported by the Council of Ministers in resignation. It's all your responsibility. As much as Dr. Pavlov. Yeah, the budget, the motives, that's how they start: the guarantee package. Dr. Pavlov, take a walk around the countryside, see how people stand in queues, talk to the colleagues who are waiting for their money from the Casa, the subliminals, about the work done, talk to the pharmacies how they wait for their money, talk to them, and then... And something very important. Since you claim that in dentistry, in dentistry, dental services everything is wonderful, I think it is you who submitted that sample, that in Bulgaria, up to 18 years, every Bulgarian, every young man is missing a permanent tooth. Do you mean that with this money in the budget, the Bulgarians are satisfied with the dental services? I don't think you're that gullible. As for colleague Abu Melih. Colleague, change yes. I recall it for the last time probably in this Parliament: for 2009 there was a consensus, a political consensus for 2009. The 2009 budget raised the contribution from 6 to 8%. There's a billion and a half of them. The idea was from 2010 to happen what you said seven years later. It didn't happen! You know what happened in 2010. The reserve went away and with the initial brilliant ideas, with the consensus everything went... We missed seven years! In seven years the situation is even more dramatic and the responsibility is entirely yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u67	Thank you. The next statement is from Mr. Hassan Ademov. After him the people representative Martin Dimitrov. So far, there's no record of anyone else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister resigned! At our attention is the third budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, of this government, and of this majority. This budget had to show, as colleagues from GERB would say, the visible results. Unfortunately, however, as a result of what you, Mr Minister, promised at the beginning of the term of office and failed to do within these two years, what remained is only one, as your colleagues said earlier, a fingerprint of your unfortunate presence in the Ministry of Health. I would like to say a few words about the fate of this Project. She's very interesting. This budget was prepared by the Supervision of the National Health Insurance Fund, as by law, then sent to the Minister of Health to be able to enter the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Health brought him back and this move of the budget back and forth led, first, to the removal of the President of the Supervisory Board, then, as you yourselves see, to the resignation of the cabinet in which Mr. Peter Moskov was Minister. What will happen if this budget is not adopted?! Well, the answer is very easy, ladies and gentlemen of the House. This answer is in the Public Finance Act. So there's no drama. Drama may exist if between first and second reading there is a populism that will break down both the budget of the Casa and the state budget, respectively the state. It is therefore very important to seek that field of agreement to ensure that Bulgarian citizens receive the necessary medical assistance. Now specifically on the proposed budget. The problem with this budget is that it has been drawn up somehow in the dark, somehow insufficiently transparent. For the first time in this budget, there is even no data on the implementation of the 2016 Cashier's budget on the basis of which all of us can navigate about what is being proposed and whether these measures are being proposed are effective. Next, more in art. 1, para. 3 you claim that you accept this budget with a balanced budget balance. Dear colleagues, this is disrespectful to the Bulgarian MPs, it is not respectful to the Bulgarian doctors and to the Bulgarian patients. Here are just a few data from the actual information. Fifty million of this year's budget for cancer drugs has been transferred as next year's expenditure. They're not reflected anywhere in the cost section. Over 500 million of them have been built by you, Mr. Minister, are the duties of the medical institutions. According to information that you have presented to parliamentary control here, the obligations of the National Health Insurance Fund to European health insurance structures are 190 million, and some of them are only deferred. And one more thing. There are some 60 million, with one part of them being the so-called "addlimite activities" of each subsequent Chamber of the National Assembly being reported, paid, verified, one part being in a judicial phase and will probably be burdened by each next minister. This is the legacy you call financial stability of the health care system, Mr. Minister! In practice, the Cashier has de facto bankrupted anyone. I do not want to scare anyone with that term, because de jure this is not possible, according to the Health Insurance Act. Therefore, dear Minister, you should put ash on your head for this behavior that you had during the entire term and apologize to the Bulgarian citizens, because instead of a financially stable system, you leave a system that has collapsed financially. Next. With regard to the macro framework of the budget. These 246 or 247 million, which are in excess in the sector...................... are many, or are there few? It is natural that compared with European funding models, it is little money, but compared to the rate of increase of gross domestic product in Bulgaria it is obvious that every next government, every next minister, every next majority will hardly rely on more financial resources than these traditional 200-300 million. There is a very important issue here that is always put in the various formats of the National Assembly, namely: do we need more money, or do we need more reforms? It is natural that more money is needed, but the question is very important: is this money being spent effectively?! Only one of the so-called health claims of the nation will I tell you. For the past two years, the total mortality in Bulgaria has been increased by 5.53% according to National Statistics. Or in numbers: from 114 thousand to 120 thousand more died in Bulgaria during this period. Another topic that I would like to address in my speech the revenue. It is very important the revenue part of each budget, because it is easier to talk about expenditure, it is harder to talk about revenue. Is that 158 million or 160 million in excess or is that a lot?! Well, fellow Members, given the fact that the expected overrun of the budget for this year is around 90 million, you can take into account, as a result of the measures taken by the government, which are reflected in the State Budget Act, higher teachers' salaries, higher salaries paid by the Ministry of Health, emergency aid, psychiatric aid, in the centers for transfusion haematology, not to list everyone, the increase by 2.4% of minimum insurance thresholds, the increase in minimum wage goes within this 160 million. Yes, but employers say that in order to keep the workforce in Bulgaria, next year will increase wages. Here is the overexecution that is hidden in this budget, read the Nazdor of the Cassate. The Finance Minister also relies on the financial minister to reduce this overcost, if possible, transfers to the health care system. This is the so-called "Kukuch budget" in the revenue section. It should not be allowed further. Just a few words about regulatory standards. Here they were said: in specialized aid, in medicodiagnostic activities, in medical institutions. With the fingerprint identifier in place, this is already absurd. But there's a big drama here that all the coworkers have been talking about. How can this system be reformed? Dear Mr. Chairman, you just said that small parties have little responsibility, but the big parties that tried to reform this system have all failed. That is why it is seeking consensus, including a non-party consensus. I am glad that already a large part of the political parties in this National Assembly, I hope that in the next National Assembly they will join together around this to seek consensus. I know it's hard to find this consensus. I know it won't be easy for the next minister to propose and realize the demonophilization of the Casa, but there is a way forward. Look at the retirement insurance! There is one model, for example from the Netherlands, from other European countries. We can learn from these models that have given a better product, more efficient spending of money, because control is greater. Now a few words about the drama that's been playing out all these 25 years. My fellow Members, in my opinion, the problem that exists and which needs to be clearly defined lies in the following: firstly, in 1999, the health insurance model, which was adopted, contained in it the basic elements of the so-called "neoliberal model" of the so-called "right and centred model." These instruments, such as free access, as a market for services, such as diversification of financial sources, met a serious resistance in the face of all the next ministers, especially in the face of Minister Moskov, because he imposed the model of overcentralization, the model of overregulation. I'm not saying there shouldn't be regulation, but overcentralisation and overregulation have led to this severe collision, which practically led to the collapse of the system. There is no way in a structure of neoliberal, and in a model of overreactions, there is no such problem. Therefore, whoever succeeds in overcoming all these problems that I have just named them will be the successful minister. This successful minister must be supported by a solid, stable, legitimately elected government. If there is no government support, if there is no support from the National Assembly, if there is no support from the word organizations, the fate of each person who named himself a reformer will not be different from the one that was now. It's not enough as a real woman to walk through health laws and expect some effect. There's no way that's gonna happen. The Constitutional Court will immediately say that the separation of packages is contrary to the Constitution. This leads to nothing but a loss of trust, and there is no insurance system that exists without trust. With sincere desire I am the next formats of the National Assembly, following committees on health care, ministers, responsible organizations to seek unification, to seek non-party consent, to seek the possible consensus, to seek demonopolization. I'm stuck in the hope that this will happen eventually.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u69	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. He has the word Minister Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to be brief and, in a large part of what I am saying, to stick to the subject of the debate. We will probably have many opportunities in the remaining months, actions or, if I know how much, in this Parliament, to tell each other all these political ones. Let me say two things: what are the different, the new, from a philosophical point of view, parameters within this budget, beyond the fact that the purely financial framework is better than last year and with nearly 250 million, which is good? Firstly, this philosophy, which is offered by the Supervision of the Cashier and the Government, is related to increasing the funding of hospital aid, primary and specialised outpatient aid and all the costs of research, for supplies that go with it, that is, it is related to fulfilling the objectives, to fulfilling the priorities set out in national, state policy as strategic objectives, and it has been set since 1 January. And the purpose of this is not to be the subject of negotiations between the Casa and conditional organisations. The aim is the state, as a state proposal, if you accept it, of course, to ensure that the philosophy laid down in the National Health Strategy for increasing funding and burdening in hospital care is financially guaranteed. That is one thing the budget offers. If, in the framework of the negotiations on a framework contract, respectively, the word organizations and the Cassata agree higher than this parameters for hospital care, okay, they have agreed. The point is that with this draft budget, the state guarantees the financing of national priorities and the way this funding has to go. Speaking, by the way, of fulfilling goals, let's say that this majority and this government since 2014... Because I've heard a lot from the pre-talkers about how something should be done, how something should change, but, you see, there was never a consensus, well, this governance without consensus, actually did what from the current management previously explained that it should be done, namely, increased within two years by 20% financing hospital aid or by 78 million. So without consensus, stubborn, spiteful! From then on, the other thing that is different within the framework of the discussion about this budget. The proposal for the allocation of the reserve once, not earlier than April 1st, that is, the beginning of a new framework contract, or a new decision of the Casa, if there is no framework contract. The meaning of this budget allocation in this way actually guarantees transparency and guarantees a principle, because here many people talked about how certain hospitals, certain hospitals were updated in one way, were updated in another way. Let me know who these hospitals are, because there aren't any. Because in the summer update box's decision, there is a clear formula on which, based on the possibilities of the casata budget, the values of hospitals are updated accordingly, according to a clear formula valid for each hospital. Yes, I know that for many of you who are present here, this is a problem. Because outside Abu Melih, who knows and wrote to himself that he is the director of a hospital, many of you are actually behind the management of certain medical facilities. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The problem is, if there is a clear, factual problem, for any transparent increase or reduction there when the budget options require it, but it is and will be! And that's achievement! I say why I should and why I invite you to vote on this by the Parliament. To date, in every year, we distribute some budget at the beginning for hospital care and remain huge money in the reserve with clarity that much of this reserve will be used for hospital care. The values allocated at the beginning of the year for hospitals, they are absolutely unreal. It is absolutely clear that they are unreal. It is absolutely clear that they will be updated during the course of the year, only it is not clear how much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u71	And by whom.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u72	And here comes the possibility transparent or opaque. And when this becomes a one-time thing, valid for all hospitals, with absolute clarity that there is no additional option afterwards, because that's how much the budget parameters are, it will give a first, clarity of hospital manuals and managers what they can have by the end of the year, and it will provide transparency and guarantee that the doubts of one or another expressing will not be confirmed that during the year following a decision of five people, a hospital will receive something different from another hospital. Formula, excel table, budget money, the criteria based on which these decisions are made in front of people! A few words on efficiency. I will not develop this conversation, but let me answer just a few of the things that I believe are not entirely true. Practically most of the speakers were talking about some type of drug leak or bad drug policy. I don't know who or what he's saying it to. There must be good achievements in drug policy or reimbursing policy. And here, Semir, with all due respect to the idea of developing the health insurance system, let's say that the first and compulsory effort is bringing the Casa's costs to a degree of efficiency as they are. So, specifically for drug policy, this majority through laws, and its government, forms a whole new body, the Committee on Health Technology. This Commission was a requirement for Bulgaria to do so by the European Commission. This Commission objectively and clearly states which, based on a pharmacoeconomic analysis, very objective, not whether my company is a friend or not, as it has been so far, but on an objective analysis, says which new drug has pharmacoeconomic characteristics, objective as it is throughout the European Union, to enter the Bulgarian market and draw resources from the public fund and who does not. Then, this majority through the laws, and its government, actually realized a return to the balance between the public fund, the Casa, over there the director of the Casa, who does this thing, and the pharmaceutical industry. With this government entering power, this balance has been completely shifted to the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry. The public interest, the interest of the state, respectively the interest of society was not protected in any way. We found 2.5 million discounts that companies are obliged to give to the Cashier. This year, thanks to the laws that the majority made and the application that made this government and this Cassa, the Cassate's compulsory concessions are 85 million. lv. So much for the question is there effective action when there is an effective administration, Semir, because this could have happened before. Why it didn't happen is an issue we don't have to talk about right now. Let me just say that these aren't just some numbers. Someone took 85 million and sent them back to the Cashier. First of all, this is the right move, but it meant the following: along with the introduction of the National Health Card, that is, limiting the possibility for hospitals to swarm, this year has enabled the Casa to finance new drug molecules needed, proven through pharmacoeconomic analysis, and to increase the funds for hospital care this year without forming a deficit of the Casata budget, because the money that is being returned from their effective use is again being put into the treatment of people. What the Cashier has done this year thanks to the laws you have adopted, and thanks to the actions of the government, it has liquidated the 30-year problem, not the 25-year problem, with the so-called The money that the Cashier put into his budget this year is more than the real demand for patients and the real discharge by personal doctors of sharp cases, along with the research that was provided for as funding. And someone calls it chaos!? Sure! Perhaps someone can tell me which of the major Bulgarian hospitals is currently in worse financial, equipment, such as modern equipment, or personnel attitude than in November 2014? Perhaps the University Hospital in Stara Zagora, which we found with the gas, electricity and everything else, may be in worse condition with the equipment received under European programs and with the entire commitment of the state to stabilize this hospital? Maybe Ruse's Multiprofile Hospital is in worse shape? Maybe one of the big Sofia hospitals is in worse shape, equipment or financial? When you are talking about chaos and indicators, compare..................................................................................................... I am the last person to claim that we have bloomed and tied up, but to explain that at the moment in the hospital system, in the drug policy system, with the new paradigms of hospital care things have not moved forward, perhaps not as much as we want, compared to what we found, it is simply not true and it is not subject to facts, and otherwise the things you can say can be told a lot. I'm gonna say a few words last time, philosophically. Firstly, why does the state, the government want, seek the opportunity to adopt the budget: the large budget and the two small budgets of the DCI and of the Cassata? I'm only gonna stop at the Cashier's. I heard several times from Dr. Ademov that there was no big problem if it was not accepted, because with one twelfth the state would not end. Yes, of course, the state will not end, in the Public Finance Act these things are foreseen as some kind of safe net, but not accepting this budget will mean, first of all, less money globally for the system at least for the first half of the year. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u73	The next parliament can update it. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u74	The next parliament to update it, who... I say that for the first half of the year, there will be as much money in this system as they entered last year, not half, by the middle of the year, of 250 million, as they should have entered the 2017 budget, which the government is proposing. That is to say, this is one of the decisions that all Members of the National Assembly agreeably or should not take. Will you guarantee the opportunity that the state offers and it to every lev is guaranteed through funding, the system to have a greater opportunity to be financed, the Cashier to have a greater opportunity to finance more services or not? It's your decision. Secondly, each of the solutions offered through financing and guaranteeing funding, by increasing certain budget items related to additional burden and additional services that citizens can receive, will have to be postponed or will not be able to be financed, which is the same. So I really think that the better move is the adoption of the budget, but, of course, this is a matter of Bulgarian citizens. A few words about global problems. It is very nice to talk in general about how the system should be demonopolitanized, to draw out a slogan and wave it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u75	I'd like to ask you to make your way to completion after this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u76	Two minutes, Mr. Chairman, and I'm done. It's a nice sentiment that Dr. Abu Melih said. However, I also know that the meaningful politician offers things and actions for which the realization and consequences may be responsible, that is to say, that we should have done the math in advance. The consensus of all political parties or all layers of society around a particular model is utopia. There must be the will to impose certain changes. Here the key is will, not consensus. There was no consensus, there wouldn't be any danger of that happening that way. I shouldn't say that, and I can hold it in numbers, touch the amount of compulsory health insurance. You can't! This health insurance contribution should not be divided, that is, part of it should remain in the NHIF for the compulsory and part of it should go into some other funds that they will do something about it, because with the same money you cannot finance a different amount of services in a different way. What needs to happen is stimulating voluntary health insurance. Here I have a question: for what reason are the vast majority of the things that the Casa is not paying at the moment and which are the subject of cash payment by Bulgarian patients are not the subject of a voluntary health insurance package that a health insurance company should make? He will not do it, and this will not happen because there are less than 10% of the people in Bulgaria who are ready to invest in their health on their own. Such are the facts, and what we want the slogans to be is a separate matter. Ruining the funding of the National Health Insurance Fund and giving it to some health insurance funds means actually breaking the idea of solidarity in health care at all. It's not left, it's not right, it's meaningful. Whoever offers it should be able to take responsibility for the consequences. We have a severe demographic and severe social structure of the population. I would very much like to be able to propose a radical right-wing policy in which we say how we divide the system, how private initiative and I don't know what... We need to think about the reality of the structure of the population, which this system must finance its treatment, an elderly population, a poor population, a sick population. When these things are spoken, efficiency options must be taken into account. What needs to be done is to continue the policy of this administration and this guide of the Casa to increase the effectiveness of the actions of the National Health Insurance Fund. And that's what happened. It is not true that control mechanisms do not work. They give effect and it's visible in the numbers and in the numbers. Thank you and have a good day's work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u78	Personally affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u79	If you want, I can give you some. Then there are two recorded statements. [[Noise and lines.]] Since I see that there is an attitude to vote, I must inform you. [[Reply: When will there be rest?]] The rest, when the time is right. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, you should have made a remark to the Minister that I am not a doctor, and I don't want to be a doctor. I know my place and I know what I know. So when I say "demonopolization," that's because I've tried to do some simple math, and one plus one for me makes two. The interesting thing is that Mr. Minister's thesis is also good, but I don't see an account here to prove to me that one plus one doesn't make two. This is what I want a real discussion to open up. There are people who say: demonophilization............................ others, I am one of them. On the other side to sit those who say: no, it is not right, it will not improve Bulgarian healthcare. Everyone get these out and finally come up with a common thesis, with a consensus with which 10, 20 years to move forward. That's what I'm talking about, not a single, single act, because I have the power today, I say, "That's not gonna happen!" Who are you to tell me?! Let's see who I am. I'm nobody today, but I might be somebody tomorrow. We live in this enchanted circle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u81	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u82	Do you understand me, Mr. Chairman? [[Laughter and excitement.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u83	I understand, Mr. Abu Melih. Minister Moskov, you know, Mr. Abu Melih is not a doctor. [[Laughter and excitement.]] We continue with further comments. Mr. Dimitrov, come in. After him, Georgi Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u84	Mr President, I will be very brief with a principle question: if, after first reading, the budget will allow a greater deficit than the proposals made, I am not inclined to support any of the three budgets at the moment. What happened in Romania is this. Romania is a good example of judicial reform, but it is a very bad example of adopting its last budget, which is managed by a service expert cabinet. Between first and second reading, a huge hole in government finances opened up. Therefore, if the adoption of the two small budgets and the state budget allows BSP, for example, to abolish the flat tax, if this will be the purpose of the event, or if new huge populist costs are allowed, it makes no sense for the three budgets to be supported. Otherwise, yes, I agree with most health care expenses. My fellow doctors convinced me. I'm inclined. I agree with raising teachers' salaries. I agree with a raise, even if you will, on the minimum wage, which has already been agreed and agreed upon. This is calculated in three budgets. However, if additional costs are to be allowed, I call on you, Members, to say from now on, in order to be able to heartily or abstain, or to vote against, so that we do not question the stability of our country. As for the elections, colleagues, every year from now on, parliamentary elections are emerging, watching how things are going. Looks like there'll be parliamentary elections every year. Especially if the left wing comes, we know...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u85	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u86	Yeah, about that. If you are going to allow between first and second reading new additional costs, colleagues, get up and tell yourself. Here, the BSP said about one budget that they wouldn't make any proposals. I'm interested in the state budget for what they intend to make. And I say again, if they're going to cancel the flat tax, I have no intention of participating in this thing. I intend to stop him with all my might! [[Laughter in BSP.]] So, colleagues, tell each other so we know how to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u87	Let the air out a little bit!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u88	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am facilitated in my speech by the last two members of the Health Commission who have passed from the arguments of the decibels to the arguments of the facts. In my speech, however, I will refrain from political speaking, because when we talk about healthcare, we should not be divided into red, green, brown and any other colors. [[Applause by MP Semir Abu Melih.]] We all need to be white, and white is not a white flag, but a color of hope in health care. I'm uncomfortable that here, from this platform, there were all kinds of nonsense that had nothing to do with the budget of the Health Fund and the budget of health care. I'm going business with the facts. The budget consists of two parts: revenue and expenditure. According to the revenue section, this year's health care has been allocated more 247 "248 million, which is a positive step. Whether this is the maximum opportunity or not, I can't judge, but I appreciate it as a positive step. In the same sentence, however, it is said that the budget is balanced. I allow myself to disagree with this statement because the budget is not balanced at all. Absolutely nothing is 248 million, with a deduction from them even only the outstanding amounts for over-liminal activity for 2015, which is 60 million, and 190 million, which are due to hospitals outside the country for health insurance in Bulgaria. That is, the budget is already debalanced in these two paragraphs alone. The increase in the budget is a fact, but even with it it is 4.2% of GDP. For the current year, the lowest percentage of GDP per EU country is 6.3%. Then why are we wondering that there is an unregulated supplement, which, according to some data, reaches up to 50% at the expense of patients' pocket?! This is an absolutely insufficient percentage of the GDP budget. It comes up with an argument. These are the possibilities. I'll give an example. We have a budget of 3 billion. 32 million. Austria, which has the same population, with the same demographic picture, has a budget of 42 billion euros. Make a difference. For the revenue part of the budget, I repeat again and again one of the main mistakes of the system is that the state participates disadvantaged in the provision of funds for the groups it provides. You know that it provides children, students, students, mentally ill, prisoners. Yes, it provides them, but with thousands of efforts from this year provides them with 55% of the minimum health contribution. That is, it gives the most vulnerable categories of patients who use the most healthcare services twice as much as the smallest individual contribution. Second, why the Health Insurance Act continues to stand art. 40, para. 1, according to which judges, investigators, prosecutors, civil servants, servicemen are provided on the basis of the state?! On what grounds do those people who have good income do not pay health insurance contributions?! One of the main principles of health insurance is solidarity. Where's solidarity? I believe that art. 40, para. One needs to be dropped. It would not be a precedent in the National Assembly by voting on one law to change another law relating to it. The cost. The positive points are 222 million. lv. more for health insurance payments compared to 2016 7.7% more. For primary outpatient medical care, 11 per cent for specialized outpatient medical care, 5 per cent for medical and diagnostic activities, 10 per cent for hospital care. lv. I couldn't figure out the percentages, but there's a lot of them. All this for me is a positive moment in the NHIF budget. The money for medicines for both home treatment and oncology has been increased by 48 million. lv. or 6.3%. There's a problem here. That's 30% of the NHIF budget money. It is true that the budget is low. It is true that new innovative products, as we call them, come out every year, which should be introduced into health care, but the average rate in the European Union for medicines is 15%. The highest I found for the countries of the European Union is 18%. For me it is not justified that 30% of NHIF's money should go only for medicines. The reserve is 341 million. lv. - I'm up. - I'm up. - I'm up. Here are my main objections to expenditure. This reserve is said to be allocated 90% to medicines and hospital care. It probably makes sense because that's where the biggest costs are. But why, since it is said that so much money will go to hospital care and medicine, are they not distributed at the very beginning of the budget? I'll tell you why. Because that would increase the limits of hospital care. If they have more money, they will have more limits, and thus they are restricted to hospitals, then they are given something to complement their activities, which is absolutely unjustified and wrong for me. Speaking of limits, it was also addressed by colleagues before me. Why is it that after the introduction of the fingerprint authenticator a word that is very difficult to pronounce, why are limits set again? I thought the authenticator was in place so there wouldn't be any draining of the Case. Nobody's gonna cut off their finger and give it to someone else to go to the hospital instead. Why do you go on with these hospital aid limits? It doesn't make any sense, no excuse. The last thing that has also been touched by fellow Members is something that I find a gross mistake even to suggest. This is the paragraph that allows for the prior termination of a contract of the Health Insurance Fund with the medical institutions. In this way, one of the main legal principles is being violated, the controlling authority is actually issuing a verdict. He commands guilt, which is the prerogative of the court alone. I believe that this paragraph has a consensus and must be dropped categorically. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? I won't. People's representative Jevdet Chakarov, last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dr. Hasan Ademov has already said that our position has been presented, once again I would like to say that we will not support the budget of the NHIF and the Ministry of Health. I will continue with the arguments and considerations we have. We will not support these budgets because, once again, there is no health reform at stake to improve the healthcare system for all of us, both for patients and for doctors. And not only is there no policies at stake through this budget, as has already been said, to improve the health system, unfortunately, we must point out that the problems are deepening and the chaos that lies in the health system. When we adopted the budget of the NHIF, Minister Moskov and the Ministry of Health for 2015, he said that this budget would be transitional and that the real reforms would be set for next year, that this would improve the system. We saw that reforms did not bet. What was at stake in these budgets and in the policy of the Ministry of Health is that there were only administrative measures and limitation, limitation, limitation to infinity that really brought turmoil and chaos into the healthcare system. Unfortunately, the DPS proved right to doubt the ability of the Ministry of Health's political team to implement the so expected and needed healthcare reform for all of us. The most important thing here is a lot of talk about the fingerprint identifier. He's at the entrance to the treatment. Why do we not have an effective, functioning, full electronic health care that will really improve and provide an option for effective control of the NHIF representatives who are in the Chamber today? Betting more money is good, as has been reported. Unfortunately, from what we see here and from the analysis that is being done, there is no indication of the sources and the way in the next budget that these funds should be sources based on analysing where exactly there should be a reduction in funds to improve the quality and effectiveness in the functioning of the health care system, i.e. where healing activities can be improved. Increasing funds does not in any case mean priors that there will be an improvement in the functioning of the healthcare system. More and more are being heard, and colleague Kyuchukov also called for consensus "Many people from different political spectra today present a position for a non-partisan consensus in the healthcare system, in health policy. I will step out of the framework for a while and in terms of EU funds to have a non-party consensus so that maximum effective objectives are achieved to improve the quality and standard of all of us in the country. We object specifically to some of the measures that I would like to briefly point out. First of all, regarding hospital limits. This is a purely administrative measure, not a reform. It is not possible not to pay for the carried out and demonstrated by checks by the NHIF of the perpetrators of medical activities and cannot limit the right to the choice of patients of medical institutions. Secondly, we also object to the text which provides for the cancellation of contracts with a medical contractor, and I stress that a preliminary execution of this is allowed as the appeal goes. Absolute violation of the rights of medical performers and patients, as well as violation of the Administrative-Processory Code. Thirdly, we object to betting on volumes of medical activities with which both doctors and patients and performers of medical activities must comply. They must be forecast and, on the basis of estimated volumes of activities, update and thus, naturally, improve the functioning of the system, reduce the volumes of activities. We object to the text that Mr. Abu Melih pointed out about the option given to the NHIF to set prices and volumes. They are determined by the National Framework Treaty, with the word organizations and this is correct and correct. We object to the imperative cost of 90% of the NHIF's drug reserve and medical devices, how it is envisaged in advance, why only for these activities. Wouldn't other needs arise, as a budget is transferred in terms of oncosis from one year to the next year? Why not provide such options, namely and precisely? This, of course, raises serious concerns and concerns. There is no statement of expenditure for this year to see on what basis the budget is structured, as I just said, for 2017. There is therefore an objection from the Association of Municipal Hospitals, which draws attention to the fact that for this year the hospital has provided a cost of 1,400 million. BGN, and predictably and most likely to end this year the costs for these hospitals will be one billion and 600 million. It shall not be indicated where and how this very serious cost gap will be achieved, which is bet for next year. There are many things to form clear, correct and adequate policies in order to improve efficiency, the functioning of the health care system. The DPS has always had its constructive position. There is no way to share these incorrect and inadequate measures that are bet in the budget for NHIF and the Ministry of Health for next year, with a view to which we will not support these budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u92	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I won't. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. We are voting at first reading a Bill on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017, No 602-01-66, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. Vote 154 MPs: 98 against 51, abstention 5. Negative vote, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I voted against this budget as part of our Strategy for the three budgets, and it was based on the attempts we are making these days as a responsible political force to reach a consensus between the main system parties in parliament, but unfortunately, we do not understand them. This consensus is necessary for all three budgets in order to avoid chaos between first and second readings when there will be numerous populist proposals that will also be in this budget, including those that could be avoided only by such consensus. Unfortunately, we do not understand, this responsibility remains the greatest political force in this Parliament, as the composition of Parliament is the same, but we do not see any action in this direction. I voted against this budget, as this is the last manifestation of chaos in the healthcare system for this government. I voted against this budget because I have not heard anyone present at least one meaningful reform that has improved people's health in the past two years. I voted against this budget because I didn't feel it and I didn't really feel in at least 90 percent of those present in this House supporting the actions and manifestations of the Ministry of Health's management over the last two years. I voted against this budget, as this is another attempt at overregulation, overcentralisation and dictation in the healthcare system, which has brought us back to the past. I voted against this budget because these are actions which have brought the healthcare system and its leadership into continuous dispute with the court who is right and who is wrong due to infringement of procedures due to violations of human rights. I voted against this budget because it contains actions which in no way solved the financial problems of the system. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u94	Thank you. Any other candidates for a negative vote, gentlemen and ladies? I won't. Dear colleagues, an exhibition of the Bulgarian Cartographic Association dedicated to the International Year on the map announced at the initiative of the UN will be opened in the Northern Foyer. The exhibition presents old Bulgarian maps, atlases, cartographic products made according to the model of 3D teaching tools. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a break until 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u95	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the plenary sitting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Moving on to next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2017, No 602-01-65. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the President of the Commission will introduce us to the people representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, please allow Mr. Bisser Petkov to be admitted to the Chamber for a procedure of procedure, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Head Actuary, and Mrs. Antoinette Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u97	We are voting on the proposal made. Abort the vote. There is no jurisdiction. Name check. Please give me the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u98	Back and forth, back and forth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u99	All right, back and forth. Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stefan Stainov Zhelev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent We've got a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. Additional entry was made: Janko Yankov, Tasco Ermenkov, Julian Angelov, Rosen Petrov, Plamen Yordanov, Nelly Petrova, Yavor Notev, Radoslav Stoychev, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Miho Mihov, Ralitsa Angelova, Slavcho Atanasov, Stefan Zhelev, Krasimira Kovatchka, Polina Karastoyanova, Rumen Zhelev, Petar Petrov, Filip Popov, Stoyan Mirchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Semir Abu Melih, Radan Kanev, Konstantin Markov, Petar Bogdanov, Milena Alexandrova, Georgi Andonov, Dimitar Delchev, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Tanev and Desislava Atanasova. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for admission to the Chamber of the persons designated by her. They voted 119 MPs: 117, none, abstention 2. Invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u100	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2017, No 602-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a meeting held on 3 November 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the State Social Security Budget Bill. The meeting was attended by: Ivaylo Ivanov - Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of NSI: Mr. Petkov, Governor, Mrs. Karaivanova, Deputy Governor and Mrs. Gancheva, Director of the Department of Public Works, Planning and Forecasting. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute. It's revenue. The following policies are proposed: The amount of the insurance contribution for the Fund is increased by one percentage point of 18,8 per cent for those born before 1 January 1960, with a ratio of 10,5 on the employer's account and 8.3 on the employee's account, and 13.8 per cent for those born after 31 December 1959. The amount of the contribution to the Fund is increased for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, No change is envisaged between employer and employee for other insurance risks and they remain 60 to 40 percent respectively. Amount of revenue and transfers 2017 The total amount of revenue and transfers is available at 10 375,6 million. lv. which amounts to 11.2 per cent of GDP. The total amount with the largest relative share is the income from social contributions, which is estimated at 5 614.7 million. BGN, which amounts to 6.1 per cent of GDP. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and transfers from the State budget to the IPO budget of 4 723.6 million. BGN, with these transfers to finance the payment of pensions and supplements financed by the state budget of 325,1 million. BGN, and to cover the shortage of funds, the subsidy amounts to 4 398,5 million. BGN, which is 320,7 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and are incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. On expenses. The following policies are proposed: The required age and retirement insurance experience for all categories of work shall be increased. From 1 January 2017, the percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be increased from 1,1 to 1,126 by a percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code. From 1 July 2017 employment pensions awarded until 31 December of the previous year shall not be updated under art. CSR 100 and shall be revalued with the new rate for each year of the insurance service. The minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age shall be increased from 1 July 2017 by 2.4 per cent. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received (for newly granted) shall be maintained at a rate of 35 per cent of the maximum social security income. The minimum daily amount of compensation for unemployment is maintained.. 7.20 BGN and its limit at 60 percent of the insurance income of the person before the loss of work. The mode of payment of the cash benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. 5 of the Social Security Code. The period of payment of the monetary benefit for pregnancy and birth of 410 days shall be maintained. The amount of one-off aid shall be retained in the death of an insured person of BGN 540. In terms of costs and transfers: The total amount of expenditure and transfers is 10 375,6 million. lv. In the amount of the expenditure with the highest relative share, the cost of pensions of 8 936,3 million. BGN, which amounts to 86.1 per cent of all expenditure in the state social security. The relative share of the cost of pensions from gross domestic product is maintained at the level of 9.7 per cent, with the provision for pensions of 235 million. lv. or 2.7 per cent more compared to their size in the 2016 IPO budget. The average pension amount in 2017 is set to reach 341,57 BGN. The planned amount for the payment of social benefits and benefits is 1,350,0 million. BGN, which is 13.0 per cent of the total costs of the budget of the DVO, with the funds of 126,5 million. lv. more than 2016 On the budget balance. For 2017 the budget balance is 0. The total amount of funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. Proposals for draft budgets of the different DCI Funds for 2017: - and the Fund is 3 737.3 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • - for the non-employment-related pension fund, the revenues and transfers are 324.0 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the Fund - Trudy accident and occupational disease. The revenues and transfers are 159.4 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the General Disease Fund (FSC) 856,1 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the Fund - Unemployment.. 236,7 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - revenue and transfers of 4 435.7 million are offered for the budget of the National Insurance Institute. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • A discussion was held on the bill in which the MPs and guests involved in the meeting expressed their views. People's representative Rumen Gechev expressed lack of support for the bill, pointing out the following reasons: the higher dynamics of social and health insurance contributions will deepen social polarization; the increase in pension age is unacceptable; the growth of the minimum pension does not correspond to GDP growth; the minimum wage for 2018 and 2019 is frozen. The Secretary General of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Vasil Todorov said that they do not support the bill with the following reasons: it is unacceptable the administrative increase of the minimum wage for 2017; it is unacceptable the average increase of minimum insurance income by 2.6 percent, following the increase of the minimum wage, as well as the employer's active obligation to pay the hospital during the first three days, etc. The Executive Director of the CNSB Asia Goneva expressed support for the bill, saying that it was developed at a high professional level with significant improvement in the parameters of revenue, satisfactory growth of the minimum wage, an increase is planned in terms of self-insuring persons. The Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association expressed principle support for the bill and notes on the minimum wage, the delay in the debate between the social partners and the public debate on the next steps of the reform. The representative of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists presented an opinion in support of the Bill, stating that the draft budget is based on the parameters set out in the 3-year budget forecast. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received: for 10 MPs, against three MPs and 2 MPs who abstained. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2017, No 602-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The report will introduce you to the Vice-President of the Commission of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u102	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2017, No 602-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 16 November 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the State Social Security for 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Governor and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, Chairman of the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria, representatives of employers', trade union and pensioners' organizations. The bill was presented jointly by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Biser Petkov. At the beginning of the presentation it was stated that the draft budget of the State Social Security for 2017 is in line with the main assumptions of the mid-term budget forecast for the period 2017 -2019. It was approved by the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, approved by the Council of Ministers and submitted in accordance with the respective order and deadlines to the National Assembly. The indicators used by the Consolidated Budget of State Social Security for 2017 are as follows: average annual number of insured persons - 2 767.3 thousand, average social income declared by the NSI - 809,3 BGN, number of unemployed persons entitled to compensation - 86,7 thousand, average annual number of pensioners - 2 179,9 thousand. The 2017 State Social Security Budget Project sets out the following key revenue policies: - The amount of the social contribution for the Fund is increased by one percentage point for those born before 1 January 1960. The insurance contribution is 18,8 and 13,8 per cent for those born after 31 December 1959. - Increase the amount of the social contribution to the Fund for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, For those born before 1 January 1960 it will be 60.8 per cent and 55.8 per cent for persons born after 31 December 1959. - The size of the ratios between employer and employee for the other funds and the teacher's pension fund shall be maintained, and they shall remain 60 to 40 percent respectively. For 2017, their amounts are as follows: Fund "General disease and........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - The minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons differentiated by their taxable income for 2015 is increased to BGN 460, BGN 500, BGN 550, respectively. And 600 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The minimum insurance income for farmers and tobacco producers of 300 BGN is preserved.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The maximum insurance income for all insured persons in the amount of BGN 2 600 is maintained.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Contribution to the Fund of Guaranteed claims of the employees (in 2017) are not made. The maximum amount of guaranteed claims is 1,200 BGN. The bill sets out the following basic spending policies: - Increase by 2 months the required age and insurance internship to acquire the right of pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and para. 2 of the CSR "64/38' 4 m for men and 61 years/35 4 m for women; - Increases by 2 months the necessary age to acquire the right to pension under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the CSR - 66 years for men and women; - The minimum retirement age for those working in the sector is increased by 2 months. - The necessary age for early retirement of the first and second category persons who do not meet the conditions for retirement under art. 168 of the CSR; - From 1 January 2017, the burden for each year of insurance service in the pension formula is increased from 1,1 to 1,126 or by a percentage equal to 50 percent of the consumer price index and 50 percent of the increase in average insurance income in 2016. 2,4 per cent, as determined by the rule of art. 100 CSR); - Employment pensions are not updated as of 1 July 2017 but are revalued with the new burden for each year of insurance service of 1,126 percent; - The minimum amount of pension for internship and age increased by 2.4 per cent from 1 July 2017. From 161,38 lv. At 165,25 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received at the level of 1 July 2015 shall be maintained. BGN 910• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The minimum daily amount of the compensation for unemployment is preserved - BGN 7.20. and its limitation at a level of 60 percent of the insured income of the person prior to the loss of work; - The period of payment of unemployment benefits is based on the duration of the service during which the persons were insured for unemployment, for the time after 31 December 2001. - The period from which short-term benefits are calculated in case of temporary incapacity is maintained is 18 calendar months, and in case of unemployment and pregnancy and childbirth 24 months; - The period of payment of the monetary benefit for pregnancy and childbirth is reserved. s. 410 days; - The amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age is maintained at 340 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is preserved.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - The maximum amount of guaranteed claims is maintained at 1,200 BGN. The development of the draft Consolidated Budget for Revenue and Expenditure for 2017 is also based on the expected implementation of the 2016 IPO budget on the basis of a report as of August 2016. Total amount of revenue and transfers received for The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, The transfers from the Central Budget are 4 billion. 723... Maybe there's some mistake here, so without the numbers. With regard to pensions for 2017, importers of the bill also focused on the following parameters: - Weight for each year of insurance service 1,126 from 1 January 2017 for newly granted pensions and from 1 July 2017 for pensions granted until 31 December 2016; - Estimated average pension amount of one pensioner in 2017. BGN 341,57 or 3,0% growth compared to 2016. The consolidated draft budget of the State Social Security for 2017 is expected to end with a shortage of 4 398,5 million. lv. Under the funds, this deficit appears to be as follows: Fund lv.; Fund "Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; non-employment-related Pension Fund.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.; Fund "Employment accident and occupational disease" "Employment of 106,2 million." lv.; General disease and disability.... a shortage of 128.2 million. lv.; "Unemployment" Fund "Lack of 122,9 million" lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The Master's pension fund budget contains 54.1 million. lv. Revenues and expenses - 30, 1 million lv. The expected assets at the end of 2017 were 541.2 million. lv. In the budget of the Fund, the guarantee claims of the workers and employees and for 2017 are set at 8,0 million. lv. Revenues and 1.8 million lv. expenses. The expected assets of the fund as of 31 December 2017 are 283,0 million. lv. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received the opinions of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria. The CST appreciates the efforts of the importers of the Draft Law on the Budget of the DVO for 2017 and the positive measures put in place, but does not find sufficient grounds to support the Draft Law in its present form. The Fiscal Council expresses its positive opinion on the draft consolidated budget of state social security and approves most of the proposed measures and policies. During the meeting were presented the opinions of the KT "Supportpa", KRIB and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. Representatives of these organisations said they found sufficient grounds and rational policies to support the State Social Security Budget. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place, which was attended by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Georgi Gokov, Ruslan Toshev, Hasan Ademov, Radan Kanev and Dimitar Tanev. In addition to the positive findings, shortcomings of the draft budget have been identified. It does not have reforms regarding disability pensions, does not take account of the imbalance in the economy, most of the policies to be implemented are stalled, updating pensions is unfair and others. After the discussion was concluded and the vote with results: 8 votes for the vote, 7 votes against the vote and 1 vote abstention, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy adopted a following opinion: Asks the National Assembly not to support the State and Social Security Budget Bill in the first vote 2017. No 602-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. On behalf of the importer, do you wish, Madam Minister, or later? Before we find the debate, allow me on the grounds of art. 45, para. 1 to propose an extension of the time foreseen for plenary sitting today to item 1. 4 - Presentation of the reports under point (c) 4, acceptance of t. 3 and presentation of the reports under point 3. Four on the agenda. Please vote. The proposal is based on an agreement reached by the Presidency Council between all parliamentary groups. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. You have the floor to speak. First was the People's Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not support this budget. Why won't I support this budget? I call on all MPs not to support this budget. There are several reasons. The first reason is the unfair update of pensions and literally the mockery with which the minimum pension in the Republic of Bulgaria is updated with the modest 3 BGN. Secondly, because this budget, as well as previous budgets, for the previous five years, were budgets of draining billions of levs from the insurance system. What you will hear from me today is subject to consistent and pragmatic actions by the Patriotic Front. And I hope from now on I don't hear anyone say that what we're proposing is populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u105	What you're suggesting is populism!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u106	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u107	In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We have introduced a new policy that led the Patriotic Front. 5 in para. 1 of art. 95 of the Social Security Code. This text was introduced for the first time by the establishment of the Social Security Code in accordance with Convention 37 and 38 of the International Labour Organisation, ratified by the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in the distant 1949, and more than 70 years of non-compliance with these two conventions forced us to introduce this text in the application of these conventions. That is, for the first time, to give the executive authority... to the NSI, the NRA to carry out a revision of the disability pensions. Moreover, in order for the institutions to be prepared to create the relevant structures, teams to carry out this revision and to finally show that there is a Bulgarian state that will say: stop the draining of billions of levs on social funds, we postponed the action of this text, namely to start acting from 1 January 2016, that is to say that additional funds can be voted in the 2016 budget and so on. So we created all the conditions, ideal conditions, this thing to be possible. Sadly, the executive authority, the NRA, refused to fulfil their obligations under law. They just said no! In other words, they stimulated the Mafia to drain social funds of 3 billion. 500 million. lv. When we have bet the minimum pension to be BGN 300, we have bet on these honest and respectable Bulgarian pensioners who have acquired the right of retirement at acquired age and the necessary insurance service by law. That is, we have not stimulated the grantees who have not worked, but have stood on the nursery in the form of various benefits and social benefits. Here's the first important thing to know. We have done one year's work to be useful to both the executive and the system. All this work is subject to the official reports of the National Insurance Institute, which, sadly, has been submitted in such a way that a team, I dare say, are the best experts in this area, have experienced great difficulty in order to arrange this information and present it today in such a way that it is understandable to all of you. What's this about, fellow Members? And here I open the clamp immediately. The patriotic front does not want additional funds to serve this increase in minimum pension. I repeat: we don't want any additional funds! The funds are there, and today I hope to convince you that this is the case. There is one important rule in the NSI's reports that you need to distinguish it well. It is not about the number of pensioners, it is about the number of pensions paid. The number of pensions paid, according to the latest reports as of 30 June 2016. I'll talk to whole numbers so I don't confuse you is 2 million and 600,000 pensions. Of these 2 million and 600,000 pensions, there are two groups that deserve particular attention. The first group, these are pensions due to disability due to a general illness, with the total number of this number of pensions being 450 thousand pensions. I admit that for now, we have no physical opportunity left to work on this group, but it also deserves particular attention. The second group is more interesting. This is the group for social pensions for disability - 500 thousand pensions. According to the report, by 31 December 2015, this number of pensions was a constant number between 505 and 494 thousand pensions. What does it take to get such a pension? You have to comply with three very simple and simple conditions: you have to be 16 years old, you have to own an ID card and you have to submit to the National Insurance Institute an application with a decision by TelK or NELK for disability acquired over 71%. Over 71%! We started analyzing this group a year ago, and we were hoping that during this time the state would start with all its power and power to carry out such revision, but it did not, the last report I received on the phone for four suspended pensions in Targovishte and one of my sources there is in Velingrad that has ended the country. What did we find out when we started doing the inspection? Of that 500,000. pensions 190 thousand persons with a disability of more than 90%. These are practically people who can't serve themselves, who can't do anything without help, but it turns out that a large part of them accidentally lit up with employment contracts registered at the National Revenue Agency. Therefore, there is no problem to verify by electronic means only through the registered contracts that they do not comply with the expertise and are in violation of art. 23 of Convention 37 and Convention 38. No problem at all! Someone just doesn't want to! We started a survey of the territorial units of the NSI, i.e. by districts. There the situation became even more interesting. The ethnic regions were polished without wanting to hit anyone with ethnic areas with predominantly Roma population, ethnic areas with dominant dual citizenship. Particularly fracking are the data in percentage terms, for example in Silistra. Thirty percent of people receiving a pension are people receiving a social disability pension. When we did a random check, it turned out that 95% of the people checked are people with dual citizenship living outside Bulgaria. For some of them, we even received information that they received their pension in the country concerned, but did not prevent them from receiving a social disability pension. The total amount of the funds drained from only 500 thousand on a social pension basis of 132 BGN, and with an average pension calculated with the supplements given by the NSI - 168 BGN, we have referred to the low base, to the low number, is one billion BGN. One billion leva only here! Moreover, we have found that there is a real possibility of dealing with over 600,000. a phantom in the pension system, i.e. individuals who use only personal data, and certain mafia groups simply collect the money. We were provided with photos of certain gypsy barons who, with a bunch of debit cards in front of the corresponding ATM, collect the money. I'm giving this as information. It's a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u108	The D.A.'s office!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u109	Yes, everything will be given to the prosecutor, don't worry! Everything! Because this is about a spectacular scam that's been going on for years and years! Other facts are more interesting. How real are the Bulgarian pensioners who receive pension for serviced time and old age, according to art. 68 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code. I'm sure many of you will be surprised now. Many of you, including myself, were very surprised when we refined the information, I admit: one million 350,000 Bulgarian pensioners received a pension for time and old age. Note now what kind of insurance internship we're talking about. In women, the insurance service is on average 38 years, and in men on average 42 years and three months. Therefore, my fellow Member, these are not grantees. Moreover, when we analyzed the professions of these people, it turned out that they are people to whom each of us has great respect. These people are currently receiving pensions between BGN 157. And 300 leva.!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u110	Excuse me, Mr. Bayraktarov, would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u111	Yes, thank you. These are Bulgarian teachers, midwives, medical staff, doctors! Why? Because when they worked and contributed, the purchasing power of their salary was under very different conditions. The majority of Bulgarian teachers then received 150 BGN. However, a salary that was sufficient to satisfy their needs, for the simple reason that the ticket for urban transport was 4 cm., the cost of cubic water was 2 cm., the cost of kilowatt electricity was a penny and a half. However, no one bothered to update these pensions! It was easier to say, "There is no money." I think I've convinced you so far because there are two more feathers that form another billion and 100 million. lv. However, I do not have enough time to explain it to you, but I am ready for everyone to explain it, as I did with many colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, from GERB and they were completely convinced that we are not talking and we are not pursuing populism. When the pension is raised to 300 BGN, since people obviously do not know the Social Security Code and do not want to read it, § 7 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, which we have introduced for a reason. When there is a recalculation of pensions favoring the Bulgarian pensioner, this paragraph enters into effect immediately and it recalculates all other pensions. Therefore, no Bulgarian pensioner will be harmed. The funds are there, we don't want any extra funds. We want the state to do its job and to direct the funds to the people who contribute. Moreover, I argue here today in this analysis that at 3 million. 200,000. Souls occupied, sustaining a real 1 million. Three hundred thousand. people retired with contributions to the insurance system, the system will not be in deficit, but it is! Why?! Because the previous government of the Ministry has placed a wicked word in art. Art. 70, Art. Art. 6 and art. 9 of the Social Security Code. In order to make it clear to you, I will read what it says: The average insurance income is determined by the remuneration or the insurance income on which they are paid here. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] The colleague Hasan Ademov knows very well what I'm talking about. With this word, the system must always be in deficit. I'll stop here. I hope someone opposes, takes a line and opposes me, so that I can go on and find out what it's all about. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Mr. Veselinov, you disagree with something?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u113	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, you have repeatedly used the expression that you are not a populist, but a populist comes from the word of the people, so you should be at least a little concerned about the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u114	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, please clarify the concept of a populist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u115	Thank you, colleague Veselinov. I think everyone understands that what we are doing is for the benefit of the Bulgarian people. The hole you're making, I should probably fill in some more information. She's like this. Putting the traps in the Social Security Code, which made my hair whiter through 2015 but a blonde was doing everything she could to sabotage the completion of this useful work. [[laughs, excitement]] She did everything she could because she didn't want to think about it, she knows who she was. [[crowd cheering and laughing]] And these things couldn't have happened. The government, through its own bill, pawned draining the system. Place your bet on draining the system! I'm ready to present the information to all my colleagues. Let us unite efforts and finally find a real National Assembly, then have a government that has the courage, if not, I am ready to become a minister and clear this system because it is not a problem! [[Radio, laughter, applause, cheering: "Eeeee! "]] Because it's not a problem! Hassan Ademov won't make him a replacement because he'll get in the way. [[Laughter, excitement.]] It's good when we're talking about serious issues, you get a little mixed up. Colleagues, this is the truth, and I hope you understand that we are talking here about real things and actions that are not done. If we remain silent, the total stealing of money from the Bulgarian taxpayer will continue because this money is from the Bulgarian taxpayer. That is why I will not support the budget and appeal to colleagues not to support it so that the NOI can really do their job this time: to give a budget with natural indicators, as I am now giving them, and not to be confused and to wonder what it is about. Yes, and my colleague supports me. It is a very difficult job to navigate a person in your statistical tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. I see three blondes who can take advantage of their right to a personal explanation. [[Elevator bell dings]] , and separately Dr. Ademov, if he wishes. We move on to the next speech, it belongs to the MP Mariana Todorova from the parliamentary group of ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u117	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The main argument with which we will not support the State Social Security Budget is that it, as well as that of the National Health Insurance Fund and the Big Budget, are the main instruments with which the government and the majority in parliament implement their policy. Since this government is resigned, we think it is appropriate for the next one, legitimately elected, to choose what budget to work with. If today there was a basis on which to agree that the changes we make at second reading are realistic and achievable and not populist, we could unite and support this budget, as well as the other two, and enable the next government to change it or update it. Since we do not see the basis for such a mind and consensus to be achieved, it is much more dangerous for us to have this budget, as well as the big budget, to become a platform for election promises that cannot be fulfilled and to grow really with a huge populism. So that's our main argument. We have a lot of comments, there are things we support. If we have to do an analysis of the State Social Security Budget itself, we can say that the reform of the pension system is starting to work really well. If nearly 53% of the State Social Security Budget was subsidised by the state budget in 2015, this trend is reversed and the income from social security increases in 2017. So the state social security and the Pension Fund began to stabilize financially, which is in the interests of taxpayers. However, if this budget is adopted today, we promise not to mock, play out people's emotions, but to offer very realistic and achievable things. First of all, this is the maximum insurance income to increase to 3000 BGN. This will lead to more justice and an increase in the pension ceiling. You know that there is a huge expectation for this and several cases that have been brought against Bulgaria on this occasion. Another thing we would suggest is that the increase in the coefficient of year service instead of 1.26 should be 1.3. That would also be fairer and the substitution factor would be much more adequate, would come close to the Swiss rule. We appeal for the reimbursement of the contribution to the Fund for guaranteeing claims, as well as to have a more active role of this Fund for claims for workers in temporary difficulties of employers, i.e. to extend the scope under which it operates. We would like to reduce the baseline period in calculating unemployment benefits, to make it over the last 15 months, as well as the requirements for receiving benefits. [[Replications between the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Rumen Gechev.]] We would like and welcome the measure in which maternity compensation is paid when returning to work to mothers in the age of one year of the child. [[Replications between the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Rumen Gechev.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm in the way of the sound of the room to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u118	Please, honourable Members, order in this Chamber. Mr. Bayraktarov, prof. Gechev, if you have any conversations, please go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u119	Yes, however, to continue to welcome the measure by which it is introduced to pay mothers' mothers who return to work, as this will further stimulate young working parents [[crowd cheering]] and they will contribute to the tax system with the benefits they pay. It's really hard for me to speak in this environment, but I'm still going to go on a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u120	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u121	Our proposal would be not to return 50% of this amount, but 100% to really work the financial stimulus. We will also propose introducing the possibility for unemployment insurance rights to be enjoyed by students and students as well. That would be normal if they were providing themselves while they were working. The last measure we would suggest is to increase the minimum unemployment allowance to BGN 9.00. We also realize that it is not enough, but it is one correct step towards making unemployment benefit more dignified. If the project is adopted at first reading, then we will make these proposals with the awareness that a number of additional reforms are needed, which we hope the next government will take. These are: To have a mechanism for determining the minimum wage, not to have an increase of three years, then to have a freeze again. There must be a working mechanism that happens consistently over the years. Reforming the medical expertise system, TELK and NELK something that has already been mentioned. Our Minister Ivaylo Kalfin had started consultations in this direction, but he didn't have enough time. Indeed, there is a very urgent need for reform. It should also be reconsidered to care for people with disabilities, to combat poverty, more incentives to combine work for raising children and others. These are the challenges facing the new government. We would work in this direction and we would propose these measures if, at first reading, however, the budget of state social security was adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Kircho Karagyozov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Unfortunately, I, too, will start with a statement that personally I and my colleagues from the group of BSP left Bulgaria and we will not support this budget. We will not support it because we believe that much worse than not having an adopted budget is to have one that does not even partially meet the expectations of society. Because we believe that this yet another budget is a budget of stagnation, of freezing and of strengthening poverty, which does not offer vision, policies and measures, does not answer the main questions of stabilisation of insurance funds and the adequacy of benefits and pensions. In this budget there is no comprehensive view of the problems, which leads to partial and, in most part, chaotic actions to solve the problems in the system. The budget of state social security must, above all, guarantee citizens' social rights and increase the quality of security protection, so that the social security system, and, above all, pension insurance, does not generate poverty and social exclusion. The budget of state social security for 2017 does not guarantee anyone anything. It may even be so that at the end of the budget year the poor Bulgarians increase their number. It is true that the professional leadership and experts of the National Insurance Institute have done an excellent job in drafting the budget, but within the limits of the policy and financial framework set. I'll allow myself a few comments on the revenue side. The amount of the contribution to the Fund is increased by 1 percentage point, which we believe is action in the right direction. However, before changing the provisions of the Social Security Code, it was envisaged to increase pensions contributions to the second pillar by 2 percentage points from the beginning of 2017, and now they are redirected to the first pillar, which we also consider correct, but only by 1%. It is not clear why the first decision of 2% is ignored but comes to the lower limit by only 1%. Secondly, it is again envisaged to maintain the maximum social security income at the level of 2016. Besides reducing the ratio between the maximum and minimum social security income, the principle remains in this budget to benefit only high income groups under insurance obligations at the expense of those with low incomes. Apparently foreign to budget makers is the principle that the richer must bear a greater security burden. Next, I would like to point out that, for another year, a zero contribution to the Fund is envisaged to be maintained. They continue to be zealously guarded against changing the rules for the payment of claims, which makes it significantly difficult to access the money in the fund, we believe, for a single purpose, that there should be sufficient funds in the fund not to be motivated to import additional funds. There is no provision for an increase in the contribution to the Fund, and it has long had a serious deficit. The amount of this contribution has not been changed since 2007 and only around 66% of the cost of unemployment benefit is covered by the revenue from it. Its increase, for example, by 1% will bring more revenue to the fund, which will reduce subsidies from the state budget. Several comments on the expenditure section. For another year as a whole, not only is it not offered, but there is no thought of solutions to the adequacy of payments, as are the expectations of society. I'll start with the pensions. Everywhere in social payments is tragic, but here the largest number of people have been affected is what my colleague was talking about just a little while ago very thoroughly. During the last term, an antisocial so-called pension reform has been carried out, however, the government points out this as their most serious success in social reform. We have lied to people that this reform will improve the adequacy of pensions, that is, the deficit in the DVO budget will be reduced and financially stabilized. It was promised that these changes in the pension system are sustainable and stable and will ensure fairer access to the pension system, i.e. there will be predictability. But what is the result? In 2017 and in subsequent years there will be no increase in the existing pensions other than the so-called Swiss rule. This deepens the differences between old and newly released pensions, and this creates injustice and conflict between generations. From the long-term forecast of the NSI there is a partial reduction of the deficit in the NSI. It becomes clear that it is short-lived and at the end of the next decade, and perhaps much earlier, it will reach its current levels. There is no attempt to solve the problems of the system accumulated over the years, and the results are poverty and misery due to the horrifyingly low pensions of millions of people, increasingly difficult access to retirement, inadequate with the life expectancy and health condition of the nation. The real effect will once again be a new, drastic drop in trust in the pension system and a reduction in the reasons for providing. This budget also provides for an indexing of pensions from July 1st by 2.4%, but this will by no means compensate for the increased maintenance costs next year of a huge part of the Bulgarian pensioners. The average pension is expected to reach 341,57 BGN, i.e. an increase of less than 10 BGN. It is impressive that since 2013 there has been a tendency to decrease the real growth of pensions. It is the same with the rate of substitution of incomes both gross and net. The average pension in Bulgaria is very close to the officially accepted line of poverty. The question of the justice of this whole up-to-date approach cannot fail to arise. Once again, the question arises in the foreground: why is it not planned to recalculate earlier pensions, especially those from before 2000, on a new basis, as was the expectation of the pensioner's community? And now a few words about social payments. I'll start with the frozen ones. We from BSP left Bulgaria have repeatedly alarmed that this government froze virtually all social payments, with small exceptions. And there's nothing new coming out of this budget. Last year, pό and I counted 14 frozen social payments now, with one exception, is still the same. Of course, some of them are outside the scope of the state social security budget, but they are within the scope of the state budget and it is worth mentioning. We are all concerned and we are talking about demography about low birth rates, about the ageing population, but this seems to be only in the field of fairy tales and declarations. Instead of showing concern for young mothers, stimulating young people to start families and giving birth to children, these freezes are punished precisely for working and providing future mothers. What do you do with this budget? The compensation for raising a child from one to two years is frozen. Similarly, there are frozen and almost all other aid to children and families: monthly child support to uninsured mothers, aid to first-graders, the amount of single care in pregnancy, single assistance to twins, one-time support for adoption of a child, single-time assistance to female mothers, the amount of single birth assistance. We are offered something new about the possibility that mothers and adoptive women who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until the age of 1 but do not enjoy it and return to work, to receive compensation from state social security of 50 percent of the compensation due. This at first glance seems like a good measure to stimulate the return to the labour market, but we did not get an analysis of the effect of this measure on the labour market. Many logical questions follow: why is it financed at the expense of insurance funds and not by the targeted means of active labour market measures? How will it be controlled and the abuse of self-insured persons benefiting from this measure be cut off? One more thing about frozen payments. Minimum daily amount of compensation for the unemployed - BGN 7,20, no change in the last years. Annual contribution for food vouchers to workers under art. No. 209, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Last year, $240 million, which ended at the end of August, and the real need for about 300 million. Well, you'd say, a 40 million increase in this budget, but it's more like a 20 million reduction. The compensation received by the fund beneficiaries for employees and employees in the event of insolvency of the employer is also frozen. What is the reason not to increase at least with the accumulated inflation? In the fund, as we all know, there are plenty of funds that are set aside precisely for this purpose. Whoever hasn't gone through such a procedure doesn't know how complicated it is to eventually get to that money, and not in their actual size. In conclusion, public social security and social assistance systems play an important and crucial role in reducing poverty and inequalities. However, the budget for the State Social Security (APO) for 2017 does not offer such a vision, policies, measures to address the problems in the social system, and does not answer the main issues of stabilisation of insurance funds and the adequacy of benefits and pensions. The policy pursued in terms of the proposed draft budget not only cannot reduce poverty and income inequality in the medium and long term, but creates serious prerequisites for deepening it in the short term. Therefore, honourable Members, in view of the above, we from BSP left Bulgaria will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Karagyozov. Any lines to the statement? I won't. The next speech is from the MP Ruslan Toshev from GERB Parliamentary Group, then Hassan Ademov from DPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Petkov, Mrs. Karaivanova! The draft budget of the State Social Security for 2017 was developed in accordance with the main policies adopted by the amendments to the Social Security Code (SCO) in 2015 by this National Assembly. They were aimed at increasing revenue and limiting expenditure in state social security. This will lead to a gradual reduction in the dependence of the insurance system on the state budget and will reduce demographic pressure on it. In the field of State social security revenues, the 2017 draft budget focuses on policies aimed at expanding the insurance base by increasing the amount of contributions to the Fund. 69 of the Social Security Code. These are soldiers, civil servants under the Ministry of Interior Act, civil servants under the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, the Law on SANS, the National Security Agency and so on, and also divers and firefighters. The other idea is to strengthen the link between the insurance contribution and the amount of pensions and benefits received for the insured persons and from there to raise their motivation for the contribution of insurance contributions. The amount of the insurance contribution for the Fund is increased by 1 pt of 18,8% for those born before 1 January 1960 and 13.8 for those born after 1 January 1960. The effect on the revenues of this increase in insurance contributions will be around 200 million. lv. The amount and the contribution to the Fund shall be increased under art. 69 of the Social Security Code with 20 percentage points and the effect is 216 million. lv. In more revenue. Therefore, the overall increase of these two measures alone is an increase of more than 400 million. lv. the revenue of the State and Social Security Fund. It is envisaged in 2017 to maintain the size and ratio of social security contributions for the rest of the public funds. The minimum insurance revenues for the main economic activities and groups and professions are maintained at the levels of the previous year and are aligned with the forecasts for the expected higher minimum wage. This will lead to another 24.3 million. lv. increase in proceeds. The differentiated minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons according to their taxable income is increased by 40, 50, 50 and again 50, respectively, depending on the different levels of the scale on which their classification is made, with the last number of 600 BGN. is for a taxable income above BGN 7500. Thus, in self-insuring individuals the increase is 40 or 50 BGN. The minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers remains at the same level and perhaps between first and second reading it should be considered whether changes should be made. It remains at the level of 300 leva. As a result of these policies, the State Social Security Budget project for 2017 provides for a total of 10 billion revenue from transfers received. 375 million. BGN, which is 11.2% of gross domestic product. Revenue alone is expected to result in 5 billion. 652 million. BGN, and the income from funds in the DEA increased by 466 million. lv. Transfers from the state budget of 4 billion will take place in the draft budget of the IPO for 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which represents 5.1% of Non-labour pensions, pension allowances and cover the lack of funds shall be financed. The lack of funds in the DEA, thanks to these policies, is reduced by 320 million. lv. in relation to the budget of the previous year. State social security pays pensions, social benefits and benefits to Bulgarian citizens. The planned payment costs are 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is 11.2 percent of gross domestic product at estimated costs 10 billion. 103 million. lv. for this year. The cost of the DEA increased by 264 million. lv. And now the second year, they've transferred $10 billion. lv. The main group of payment costs is pensions representing 86.1% of total costs. The cost of pensions in 2017 is determined by the basic pensions policies that take place during the year, and these are: increasing the required age and internship in the retirement of all categories of work. The parameters laid down with the latest changes to the Social Insurance Code for a smooth increase in retirement age are necessary when retiring workers under the conditions of all categories of work, including in the category "Secretary'. This implies predictability, security and a longer active work life for each of us. In 2017 pensions will be awarded with a percentage for each year of insurance service.. 1.126% instead of 1.1%, the percentage is determined according to the CSR rule and thus the increase is ahead of inflation in Bulgaria. Thus the pensions, which will be of a weight of 1.5.. this will happen in four years, will be 36% higher than the pensions, which are calculated with a coefficient of 1,1. The average pension for one pensioner in 2017 is planned to be 341,57 BGN, which is 3 per cent higher. The costs of social benefits and benefits in 2017 are set to amount to 1 billion. 350 million. lv. or 13 per cent of the total costs. These include expenses for cash benefits for temporary incapacity due to general illness, care of a sick family member, raising a small child, unemployment, cash assistance for prevention and rehabilitation. With the creation of a new art. 50a The Social Security Code extends the scope of the insured persons who benefit from compensation for pregnancy and childbirth. An opportunity is created for adoptive mothers, this was also mentioned by pre-negotiators who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until the age of one year of the child if they do not use it to receive 50% of the benefits due for pregnancy and childbirth. This encourages the combination of professional and family life and provides equal opportunities for men and women. This amendment can also benefit men. The consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2017 is expected to end with a shortage of 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is 320 million less In order to balance the project to zero, a transfer from the state budget is received to cover the underprivileged funds. To conclude, I would like to add that the draft budget for state social security has been developed in accordance with the principles adopted with the amendment of the Social Security Code in 2015, namely: a gradual increase in pensions, a gradual increase in the required age and internship for the acquisition of pension rights; an extension of the social security base; an increase in the relationship between the social security contribution of the person and the amount of benefits and pensions. With this budget there is a tendency to better balance state social security and this trend should not be crossed. The DEA budget is burdened too much with a large number of disability pensions. In order to resolve this issue, the philosophy of working medical expertise should be changed for a change for which no resource is found in this National Assembly. This may also allow for the annulment of para. Art. 5 of art. 40 of the Social Security Code, which in 2013 was adopted as a temporary measure, namely the employer to pay the first three days of compensation to the worker for disability, which is definitely not fair. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is no populism in this project. As is known, social policy is one of the favorable fields of populism. As populism is growing in the political environment, I would like to call for us to remain in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. In that case, the next speaker is the People's Representative Hasan Ademov of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There's no one else who signed up, so give the signal if anyone wants. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Petkov, Mrs. Karaivanova, Mrs. Gancheva! I would like to begin my speech with gratitude to the team of the National Insurance Institute, the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, because the preparation, the procedure for co-ordination of the state social security budget goes through these institutions and if they do not make maximum efforts, this product can hardly get here to our plenary room. I would like, in this political environment, to clearly answer the question: what happens if this budget is not adopted and who is responsible for this? Firstly, I would like to reassure all Bulgarian citizens that whether this budget will be adopted or not be adopted, all who are entitled to pensions, all have the right to short-term benefits - hospital, maternity, unemployment benefits - will continue to receive them in size as set out in the 2016 budget until a new budget is adopted or until the current budget is updated. Next, I would like to point out that the only problem, if the budget is not adopted, is that the pensions newly granted from 1 January 2017 in the formula for calculating the amount of the pension will not include the number 1,126, which is actually recalculating the amount of the pension. So they won't be able to get a bigger pension. If the budget is not adopted by July 2017, the increase envisaged will not be possible. But I am convinced that this can hardly happen. The only other argument, in the budget of the National Insurance Institute, in the budget of the State Social Security, will not be able to enter those funds, which are envisaged as an increase in the insurance contribution by 20% of the sector. If the new budget of state social security is not adopted, these funds cannot enter at the beginning of the year. I would like to say a few words about the implementation of the budget of state social security for 2016. From the numbers provided to us by the National Insurance Institute, we see that revenues have been increased by just over 200 million. lv. If you remember, last year, our parliamentary group, we made a proposal to increase revenue by 150 million. BGN, when we realized that this was really feasible. Now it turns out that the overrun is over 200 million. lv. The re-execution may be allocated, without exceeding the cost ceilings, by decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute and the other option, which enables the re-execution of the revenue side of the budget, is to reduce the transfer from the Ministry of Finance, from the state budget to the budget of state social security. It's a trend. In the Pension Fund, notice, the costs have been increased by only 23 million by removing the Easter, Christmas and other allowances that are being envisaged now. For short-term benefits, hospital benefits, unemployment benefits and other short-term benefits, is the constant trend of cost increases. This year, costs are expected to be increased by 87 million. lv. I would also like to say a few words about the macro framework of the budget, because it is very interesting. Honourable Members, in the budget of state social security, the transfer, which is envisaged from the state budget to the budget of state social security to cover the deficit, is 4 billion. 400 million. BGN, about 4 billion 400 million. lv. That is, this is the deficit of state social security to date and for next year. Notice, the state budget deficit is 1,5% of gross domestic product or just over 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, and the deficit of state social security is 4 billion. 400 million. lv. Where does this deficit come from, why does it have this deficit? The answer to this question is very clear and is repeatedly given by this tribune. The answer to this question is that, over all these 25 years, the insurance system has been put at the service of other systems, other sectoral policies. We've been waiting for coal mining to reform. We've been waiting to reform the security sector. We were waiting for the sector to be reformed so that farmers could receive adequate benefits for the insurance contribution. We were waiting to reform the state administration system. All this did not work out and all these unrealistic reforms have a direct impact on the deficit of state social security. And now someone should speak from this tribune that there are reservations in this budget, should prove it not in the way that they did just now, but should be aware of the numbers that are in the budget of state social security. Honourable Members, on the subject of the so-called "invalid service'. I agree here with the majority of colleagues who said that, unfortunately, within these two years, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and, above all, the Minister of Health did not find time, strength and capacity to change the expertise of temporary and lasting disability. Let us hope that this will happen in the next term because of the lack of clarity and the lack of adequate solutions in this expertise arise some of the problems that are here. And now a few words about the types of pensions unrelated to employment. One of them is social disability. The social disability pension is the one the Patriotic Front colleagues were talking about a moment ago, but there we need to make a very clear differentiation. There is no such budget of a billion and 400 billion and 500 thousand. lv. Honourable Members, in this group, it is true that those who have turned 16 and have an expert decision of TelK with temporary or permanently lost work capacity over 70% and over 90% respectively, or lost, or type and degree of disability, are entitled to such a social disability pension. All who are working age from 16 to the age of retirement, men and women who are receiving a social disability pension, a social disability pension, are 47,000 people - 47,000, not 540. The figure for more than 500 thousand is correct for disability pensions, but this is where they come in, including pensions that are a second pension, but they have been suspended from 1 January 2015 there is no such pension anymore. Only the existing cases, which have a pension for internship and age, have the so-called add-on and it amounts to no more than 30 BGN, about 30 BGN, so the budget for social disability pensions is just over 200 million. To talk that this may be an additional source within the state social security budget means that we have to deal with the Moreover, the amount of the pension they receive, the so-called social disability pension, when it is a second pension, I told you just now, when it is a first pension, those 47 thousand people get, if they have lost their jobs over 70%, then they get the social pension for old age, 110% of the social pension for old age, which is 110 BGN, if I am not mistaken. When they have lost their productivity over 90%, they get 120% of the social pension for old age. This is the correct reading of disability pensions. [[Noise and lines.]] Because when we talk about disability pensions, we need to be aware that the average European rate for disability pensions is about 10%. This percentage is much smaller in Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen. Social disability pension as second pension as of 1 January 2015 There is no such concept in our legislation. Next on the question of whether we should look for opportunities to increase the minimum pension for internship and age. Yes, I welcome the analysts' capabilities, the expert capacity of fellow Members of the Patriotic Front. Everyone in this Chamber wants the minimum pension, which is not just an accounting document, it is not just an accounting act, the minimum retirement pension and the age of everything else, except for an accounting element... You know that the definition of pension is an income that replaces income from labor. Income that replaces incomes from labor in the country has another system of social insurance. And this is the social assistance system. The social assistance system is financed entirely by taxes, by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, is the one responsible for supplementing citizens' incomes either by providing social services or by providing assistance in kind, or by providing assistance from the new Operational Programme I would like not 300 BGN, the minimum pension to be 400 BGN if next year the poverty threshold becomes 400 BGN. However, the question is who are the sources of funding and I want us to look for them together. One source is now whether it is so, there are experts who need to say it is what you called it. There are other sources. There are other sources I'll tell you who they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u128	Who? Says who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u129	Please listen to the speaker more seriously. Then, if you have arguments, replicate it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u130	The other sources I'd like to comment on. The most legitimate, the most real source in Bulgaria is to increase the gross domestic product gradually, to increase the number of employees, not only those employed during employment and not only those employed at four hours, but to increase the real employment in the economy and not 69% of the employed in Bulgaria to be in the field of services. Mr. Bayraktarov, they must produce gross domestic product. [[GERB lines.]] It was no accident that I referred to your name to hear your counterarguments. I would like to say something else if in Bulgaria we start talking about this and that is what I welcome you for income policy, because what you are talking about is the income policy that has been missing for the past 25 years, because the state currently has a single instrument, the so-called minimum wage. And, colleagues, please! The budget of state social security is not directly related to the minimum wage. All that is being drawn up that the minimum wage will not rise if the budget of the DVO is not accepted, it is simply not correct, it is not true. The truth is that the minimum wage is decided by a decree of the Council of Ministers and is included in the State Budget Act and not in the budget of state social security, but this is for the so-called "enlightened" and not those who incorrectly quote this matter. The next source of additional funding, which is not debt, is the increase of the social contribution to the Fund. Colleagues, notice the increase now in the insurance contribution to the Fund with the planned 1%. Colleague Karagyozov, 1% next year, 1% in 2018, says in the Social Security Code. Another question is whether the shift from additional compulsory pension insurance to state social security funds is correct. That's another topic. I would like to say that somehow this increase in the contribution to the new fund slipped into the fund for the so-called security sector. There's a 20% increase there. Have you noticed anywhere in the election platforms of political parties that are in this parliament, increasing the insurance contribution, besides what has it in 1%? Twenty percent. Do you know what they're increasing for? Come on, 60.8%, if I'm not mistaken, the insurance contribution to the sector's security fund. You know, there's about 180 grand out there, if I'm not mistaken, who's making payments. And those who make contributions are actually a little over 70 thousand, that is, the contributors are 70 thousand, and the beneficiaries are about 100,000, a little less than 100,000. And with these 20% insurance contributions, this fund is not further balanced.. minus 30 million. In all six funds of state social security only one is of surplus. This fund is called the Employment Accident and Occupational Disease Fund, so that the state social security system, ladies and gentlemen, is functioning in the context of a severe financial deficit. A severe financial deficit! I call on all Members of Parliament who are involved in these texts to be so good as to make proposals that are adequate to the financial framework, which can be sufficiently justified by sources, with revenue sources, with sources in the revenue section, which can be sufficiently real. Otherwise, we can balance the desired increases, but as the trade unions said, the insurance contribution to the Fund must be increased by another 7%. The question is, if the Bulgarian labour market can bear this increase, the Bulgarian employers can do it. If we want debt financing further, it can be done. If we do not want, then we should look for opportunities for higher gross domestic product, for higher social security levels, for higher incomes. If the income policy is adequate, there will be more revenue in the insurance system and we will not have to look with Mr. Bajraktarov here within the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to the statement? [[Noise and lines.]] First lines! I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov wants the floor for a personal explanation. Then I will give the floor to Minister Rusinova. Mr. Petkov, would you like to add something to the discussion? If you're willing, then we'll move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Ademov, you know that I respect your expertise very much and I have stated it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u133	Respect is mutual.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u134	Thanks for the mutual respect. I asked for the word for a personal explanation because you quoted false data and false information. I can immediately show you the NSI's report as of June 30th, which we have discussed together in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u135	Mr. Bayraktarov, if I'm being precise, did you take these data out? Because you didn't ask for the word for a line to argue essentially...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u136	I asked for the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u137	...and you felt personally affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u138	Yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u139	Did you take these data out?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u140	Yeah, I took them out. If you'd followed my statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u141	Your data on revenue and expenses?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u142	Yes, that's right, dear Mr. Chairman. Since Mr. Ademov exported false data and we have applied to the same report, this is the report of the NSI on 30 June 2016. In the report of the NSI, the number of social pensions for disability is 474 thousand and not 49 thousand, as you said earlier, that is to say, you have misled the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u143	You misunderstand me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u144	If we have not understood you, I hope you will say: yes, what Mr. Bajraktarov says is the right number and the right number because it is published and thus presented to us. Moreover, I presented the numbers five years ago. I've shown them to the media before. They are official, they are public, and you will see that neither this pension has been stopped, continues to be paid, which is the most drastic violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u145	When it's second, it's stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u146	It's not stopped. There is even a reference that in one option is 168 BGN. On average, and in the other option is 132 BGN, so it is not stopped at all, but at all. And they didn't lift a finger to do anything that way. Another is the question of the other group - how many false pensions? But I hope they have the courage to have the doctors from NELK who sent me an official letter yesterday confirming everything I said. Don't get scared, come to the meeting and give them documentary information on how all these things happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u147	Any other speeches? I won't. I give the floor to Minister Rusinova to express his attitude and comment on issues raised in the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you very much. I will start by saying that the topic of social policy, social payments and pensions is very favorable in the current political crisis. I wouldn't want to talk about populism, but rather about the way that we purely non-expertly deal with the term "pensions and insurance" and so on. With the proposed draft budget of state social security for 2017, the government continues two main objectives and policies: the stability of the pension system and a gradual increase in pensions. For the following year, the growth of social payments is neither frozen nor ever frozen, and it is 430 million more. They represent 34.5% of the total costs of the state, or 13.3% of the gross domestic product. The reserve, which we can look for in increasing the solidarity of the workers to the weak, to the vulnerable, to the pensioners, is really the increase in income, it is really income through decent work, which can be done through investment in infrastructure, investment in innovation, investment in technological renovation of enterprises, because currently one working in Bulgaria produces BGN 14.7. contribution to gross domestic product. What is the policy behind the state social security budget for this year? First of all, for the first time 54% of government social security revenues are from social security contributions, i.e. the first target is more than 50% of the system's stability. We have a smooth and gradual increase in pensions by 2.4%. I would just like to remind you that the planned amount for 2017 is BGN 341. the average pension, in 2007 the average pension was 171 BGN, that is, we have a 50% increase in the average pension. In just the last few years, we have over 260 million pensions distributed as additional Christmas and Easter supplements. If we compare GERB's governance to the triple coalition, we have a 36% growth in pensions. Yeah, it's never enough. Yes, pensions in Bulgaria are low, people's incomes are low, so the social system supports the poorest. Supports them with opportunities for European resources, with numerous social services, with provision of services in a home environment. It is extremely important to stress that the average insurance income for 2017 is also forecast to exceed by about 40 BGN, i.e. 809 BGN. The phasedly guaranteed increase in pensions and reform, which was launched in 2015, can clearly show stability of the system. The policy on guaranteeing the rights of adoptive parents and adoptive parents, I also believe that it is an approach that is in the interests of both families and children, and, of course, is the incentive for workers, working mothers, and the opportunity for good reconciliation of career and private life to receive 50% of their motherhood if they return during the first year of maternity. Several arguments on those that were made in terms of opportunities to raise the minimum pension to the size of the almost average pension for the country. The reserve, which was proposed by Mr. Bayraktarov in terms of disability pensions, provides 1.7 billion in the 2017 budget for disability pensions. The figures we have done if it rises in this way to 300 BGN. becomes the minimum pension, affects 540,000 people. I believe that when we talk about pensions, we should be fair and look for a balance to give an opportunity for growth of all pensions in Bulgaria and to ensure justice indeed to the pension system and not just to some of the people. The accounts are worth 1.5 billion, that is, the reserve cannot be at the expense of all disability pensions, we cannot deprive the rights of disabled people in Bulgaria. We can look for an external debt reserve that will destabilize the system and budget. The other reserve is a gradual increase in the incomes of the people in Bulgaria. The subject of the wires and the unreformed system. I've been working in the system for many years, and I've heard many years about how this system needs to change. For the first time the government of GERB started working on a change of this system. Unfortunately, for the last six months since I was Minister of the Legislative Initiative, launched between the two ministries, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health, the planned legislative changes were ready to be tabled at the end of this year. I hope for the success of each next cabinet with this extremely difficult and important topic which will lead to better opportunities for people with disabilities and a better way of life for all vulnerable people in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Rusinova. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. The debates are closed. I invite the Members of the House to vote. I put to the first vote the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2017, No 602-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. They voted 133 MPs: 77 against 37, abstention 19. The proposal is adopted and thus the budget of the NSI in the first vote. Next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2017 The reports are to be presented within extended plenary time according to the purposeful decision of the National Assembly. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u150	Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister, Dobrin Pinjurov, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Vladimir Petrov, Director of the Directorate of State Expenditure, Ms. Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities, Mrs. Petya Kuzeva, Director of the Directorate of State Debt, Mr. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the Directorate of National Fund, Mr. Galya Nikolova, Head of the Department of the Directorate of Budget, and Mrs. Rositsa Spasova, Head of Department of the Directorate of State Expenditure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u151	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission of guests to the Chamber. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u152	♪ I can't believe under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At a meeting held on 3 November 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, Kiril Ananiev and Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Ivaylo Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Kalin Hristov, Deputy Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, Tsvetan Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman of the Court of Auditors, Gornitsa Grancharova and Tosko Todorov, Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, Dimitar Uzunov, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council, Biser Petkov, Governor, and Vesela Karaivanova, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Ginka Chavdarova, Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, representatives of the trade unions, of employers' organizations, etc. On behalf of the importer, Minister Goranov presented the main parameters and indicators included in the Council of Ministers approved an updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019 and a draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. These documents are a guarantee that in the next three years the government will continue to pursue a policy for maintaining financial stability and achieving economic growth and employment, following the common rules of the European Union. Therefore, the updated medium-term budgetary forecast presents medium-term economic prospects, government fiscal objectives and priorities, as well as the main parameters of the budgetary framework for next year. I. Macroeconomic forecast for the period 2016 - 2019 1. Gross domestic product. In 2016, gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to see a real growth of 2.6 percent as a major contribution to this growth will have domestic demand, both in terms of consumption and investment. In 2017, GDP growth will slow slightly to 2.5 percent. The contribution to the lower growth will have lower external demand, which will affect the slowdown in export growth to 3.9 percent, with an expected growth of 4.4 percent in 2016; For the period 2018-2019, a gradual acceleration of GDP growth is expected to 2.7 percent. Internal demand will lead to growth both in terms of consumption and investment. 2. Labour market For 2016, the average employment growth is expected to be 1.1 percent and the average unemployment rate to be up to 8.1 percent. In 2017, a decrease in the rate of increase of the employed to 0,6 percent is expected. At the same time, the unemployment rate is expected to slow down and reach an average of 7.3 percent. In the medium term, the unemployment rate is expected to fall to 6.5 percent in 2019 and the rate of increase in employment to remain around 0.6 percent in 2018 and 2019, as a result of the increase in domestic economic activity and the increase in positive influence from the external environment. 3. Inflation The average annual increase in the harmonised consumer price index in 2017 is expected to be 1.5 percent. The earlier inflation rate expected next year will probably not be reached, but acceleration is envisaged due to higher international oil and energy prices. The impact of changes in tax policy on consumer price dynamics is expected to be relatively low, as the change in tax policy in this regard is linked to a unity with the change in the taxation of tobacco with excise duty. For 2017 inflation of 1,5 percent is envisaged, for 2018. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It's 1.8 per cent. II. Physical policy and basic parameters for the period 2017 "2019" The consistent fiscal policy is the basis for sustainability of the budgetary framework and an opportunity to define budgetary prospects in the medium term. This is also confirmed by the government's updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, which retains the fiscal policy targets set out in Decision No 289 of the Council of Ministers of April 2016 for the same period. The government continues the imposed trend for permanent retention of taxes at low levels, which is why revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme (CFP) have been adopted between 38,4 and 37,7 per cent of GDP for the period 2017 - 2019. The trend for a slight decline in the years of expected growth in 2017 compared to the expected implementation of revenues for 2016 is the result of measures to increase tax revenue collection, changes in social security policy and the transfer of non-tax revenue for 2017, estimated in the 2016 programme. It should also be noted that a significant effect for fluctuations in the revenue of the CFP also shows the amount of aid under the European Union funds. In terms of expenditure, expectations are maintained to limit the pace of their increase by optimising the expenditure of budgetary organisations and increasing the efficiency of public spending in the individual sectors, as well as strengthening their contribution to increasing economic growth. As a result, mainly of the expected lower absorption of EU funds for 2016 at the start of the new programming period, a balanced budgetary balance is expected under the CFP. Taking into account the one-off effect on the 2016 budget balance, the forecast retains the deficit targets for the period 2017 - 2019 - 1.4 per cent, 1,0 per cent and 0,5 per cent of GDP, respectively, as set out in the spring medium-term budget forecast. In the medium term, it is envisaged: Revenues, aids and donations under the KFP to increase, with nominal growth of 2,250.3 million in 2017. lv. the expected implementation for 2016 or by 1,0 per cent of GDP, growth of 1,069,5 million. lv. For 2018 compared to 2017, a decrease of 0.5 percent of GDP and a growth of 1,400,6 million. lv. for 2019 compared to 2018, which is a decrease of 0.2 per cent of GDP. The 2017 forecast shows a significant nominal increase in total expenditure, including the contribution to the overall EU budget for 2017 compared to the expected implementation for 2016 by 3 580.3 million. lv. or 2.5 percent of GDP. In the following years, the cost forecasts are as follows: - for 2018 compared to 2017, nominal cost growth is expected to amount to 739.5 million. BGN, which represents a reduction of 0,9 per cent of GDP, - and for 2019 compared to 2018 the growth is 940.6 million. BGN, which is reduced by 0.7 per cent of GDP. The estimated estimates of revenues, aids and donations under the KFP maintain a sustainable level in the range of 37.7 "37.9 per cent of GDP in eliminating the impact of one-off revenues in 2017 from the granting of a concession to the civil airport for public use Sofia" amounting to 600 million. lv. In line with the targets set for the CFP deficit, respectively 1.4 per cent of GDP for 2017, 1,0 per cent of GDP for 2018 and 0.5 per cent of GDP for 2019 and the expected level of revenue in 2019, the opportunities for financing public spending policies are limited within 39,8 per cent of GDP in 2017 to 38,2 per cent of GDP in 2019. The Council of Ministers adopted the following basic parameters and indicators for the consolidated fiscal programme for 2017 in the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2016 - 2019: 1. Key indicators of the Consolidated fiscal programme 2017: 1.1. Revenues: The amount of the total revenue, aid and donations under the KFP for 2017 is 35 439.6 million. BGN, or 38.4 per cent of GDP. 1.2. Costs: The amount of the amount Total expenditure and contribution to the EU budget under the KFP is 36 769,6 million. BGN, or 39,8 per cent of GDP. 1.3. Budget balance: For 2017, it is envisaged that the KFP budget balance will be a deficit of 1 330,0 million. lv. Regarding the estimated GDP, the deficit is 1.4 per cent. 2. Heading of expenditure in the Consolidated fiscal programme 2017 by function: 2.1. Function The function shall include the costs of executive and legislative bodies, of part of executive agencies and committees, as well as funds in the field of science. For 2017, expenditure amounting to 2,166.2 million is foreseen. BGN, including a reserve, which represents 6 percent of the total consolidated non-interest costs for 2017 and 2.3 percent of GDP. 2.2. Function "Defensive and Security" The estimated costs of defence and security for 2017 reflect the state policy on defence, security and internal affairs, the judiciary, as well as the activities of the execution of penalties. The estimated costs are 4, 167,7 million. BGN, including a reserve, which represents 12 percent of the total consolidated non-interest costs and 4.5 percent of GDP. 2.3. Function "Study" The priorities in the field of education for 2017 are aimed at addressing the main challenges and supporting the implementation of key policies in the sector. For their implementation, integrated measures and actions will be implemented to ensure equal access to quality education and professional training and growth based on knowledge and science and the development of young people. Education expenditures are taken as a priority in Budget 2017. In line with the policy to promote reforms in the sector, measures aimed at sustainable development and quality of the education system are planned to be financed in 2017. The estimated costs are 3,350,0 million. BGN, or 10 percent of total consolidated non-interest costs and 3.6 percent of GDP. 2.4. Function ssssssssssssssss,ssssssssss,sssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssacks. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The planned costs for 2017 amounted to 4 226,8 million. BGN, including a reserve, which represents 12 percent of the total consolidated non-interest costs and 4.6 percent of GDP. 2.5. Function "Social insurance, support and care" This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, or 35 percent of total consolidated non-interest costs and 13.3 percent of GDP. The planned expenditure in the field of social security and support for 2017 reflects the state policy on social security, social welfare, pensions and other activities in the field of social assistance and care. 2.6. Construction, public works, community holding and environmental protection This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the In 2017 the planned funds in the field of housing, public works and community agriculture will be financed expenditure in implementation of the policy in the field of integrated development of the regions in the country and reducing the differences as well as improving their infrastructure connectivity, upgrading the water infrastructure, implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020. In 2017 will be financed costs for construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of sewerage and internal plumbing network in settlements, supporting the design and construction of water supply dams, construction costs, cadastral maps and registers, costs for geoprotection; maintenance, modernisation and construction of technical infrastructure and integrated management of water resources. In the field of environmental protection, environmental projects and activities related to projects for the construction of small water supply networks and facilities of local importance for drinking water supply of the population will be financed for 2017. It will also provide funding for projects for the construction of waste water treatment plants, sewerage networks and extracting collectors, facilities for the protection of the mermaids and the shores of the derettas from erosion, facilities for regulating the flow of rivers and the creation of water areas of local importance. A significant part of the planned funds will be targeted at projects related to the construction of new or re-cultivation of existing landfills, installations or waste management facilities. Financing of specialised machinery, separation facilities and installations for treatment, processing, separation, recycling or recovery systems for waste is also envisaged. 2.7. Function? Rest case, culture, religious activities? The cost of the rest of the case, culture and religious activities amounted to 620.6 million. BGN, or 2 percent of total consolidated non-interest costs and 0,7 percent of GDP. The estimated funds provide financial support for the state policy in the field of culture, support the implementation of projects related to the restoration of monasteries and religious monuments of culture, and others; the means of expanding the opportunities for practicing motor activity and healthy lifestyles and the development of school sports are also planned. 2.8. Function "Economic activities and services" The cost of the function is 5,717,8 million. lv. or 16 per cent of total consolidated non-interest costs and 6.2 per cent of GDP. The funds read in the function reflect state policy in terms of the real sector, agricultural and forestry policies, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as priority policies in the implementation of infrastructure projects in the field of transport, as well as projects related to energy stability and efficiency, industry, construction and tourism. 2.9. Function "Costs not included in other functions' The planned costs, without reserve, by this function amount to 826,8 million. BGN, which represents 0.9 per cent of GDP. The function includes the cost of interest on debt service, as well as the cost of interest on state investment loans. 3. Budgetary relations of the state budget with municipalities for 2017 Budget policies with regard to municipalities are mainly aimed at expanding the opportunities for their sustainable and balanced development. The KFP provides for a general increase in municipal own revenue with a view to the trend of the increase in income from property taxes, including a vehicle tax, as well as the introduction of a new tax on the taxi transport of passengers in revenue of the municipalities. The relative share of municipal expenditure for 2017 reached 5.3 per cent of GDP and the share of local expenditure was estimated at 49.9 per cent of the total costs of municipalities. The relative share of municipal costs in the total cost structure of the KFP reached 13.3 per cent. The state budget for 2017 is planned to increase the amount of budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget by 219,2 million. BGN, including: the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State by 200,1 million. lv.; of the matching subsidy of 5 million lv.; of transfers for winter maintenance and snow cleaning by 2.1 million lv.; of the target capital subsidy by 12,0 million lv. The increase in budgetary relations between municipalities and the central budget by the amount of 219.2 million. lv. is allocated as follows: for local activities an increase of 24.6 million. lv. and for the delegated State activities 184,6 million lv. The funds for each delegated activity by the state are determined according to the established standards and natural indicators, agreed with the industry ministries and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Higher standards in the field of social activities, education, health and culture are read to reflect the main macroeconomic assumptions and forecast growth of the minimum wage, as well as the parameters for the natural indicators for next year. 4. Under the Law of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 4.1. Revenue, aid and donations are available at a total of 21 billion. The Commission therefore concludes In addition, the tax revenue is 19 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the The Commission therefore concludes that 4.2. The total cost is 11 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and is allocated: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for the growth of the state reserve (net) 19.2 million BGN; for the provision of current and capital transfers to abroad 14.4 million lv. and for a contingency and/or emergency reserve of 71.1 million. lv. 4.3. Budgetary relations (transfers) net of 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and are the result of transfers of 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the 4.4. For 2017, a contribution to the general budget of the European Union is proposed to an amount of 992.6 million. lv. 4.5. The budget balance under the state budget is proposed to be a deficit of 864.2 million. lv. and carrying out operations in the part of the financing of the budget balance of the same amount. 5. Budget of the judiciary for 2017 The Supreme Judicial Council proposes for 2017 a total revenue, aid and donations of 108 million. BGN, or 32 million. lv. Less than 2016. Total cost 597.7 million BGN, or 79,7 million. lv. More than 2016 and Budget relationship with the central budget 489,7 million BGN, or 111,7 million. lv. more than the 2016 budget The Council of Ministers proposes for 2017: - total revenue of 125 million. BGN, or 15 million. lv. less than 2016; - total cost of 565 million BGN, or in more than 47 million. lv. Compared to 2016. The increase in expenditure is given for current expenditure 38,4 million. lv. and for capital expenditure 8,6 million lv. In the case of these revenue and expenditure, the budgetary relationship with the central budget is 440 million. BGN, which is 62 million. lv. more than 2016. The contingency and/or emergency reserve provided for 2017 shall be maintained at the level of In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, 6. Budget of the National Assembly. For 2017, the following revenue, expenditure and budgetary relations with the central budget are provided: revenue 1,5 million. lv.; costs 56,6 million lv. and budgetary relations with the central budget (transfers) of 55.1 million lv. The total cost of the current expenditure is 53,8 million. BGN, capital expenditure is 2.3 million. lv. and the contingency and/or emergency costs reserve shall be 0,5 million. lv. A discussion was held on the bill in which the MPs and guests involved in the meeting expressed their views. The representative of the Supreme Judicial Council Dimitar Uzunov stressed that the main principle in the development of the judiciary budget for 2017 was independence and forecasting the optimal amount of funds for the normal functioning of the judicial institutions. The budget of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase the effectiveness of the overall work of the judiciary in order to achieve equal access to justice, European standards in the field of legal aid, judicial enforcement and alternative dispute resolution. The representative of the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" Peter Chobanov said that he does not support the State Budget Bill for 2017, which should be withdrawn because it is based on obsolete values for the economy, consumption, investment and net exports. Representatives of the Parliamentary Group "BSP left Bulgaria" (Roumen Gechev and Georgi Turnovalyski) expressed the opinion that the project has a low economic growth and a reduction of state spending for consumption by about 2 percent. There is an increase in the cost of funds in areas that have not been reformed, education, defence, the Ministry of Interior, where no capital expenditure is foreseen, improvement of the material base, performance criteria of the Ministry of Interior. A need has been made for the creation of an investment fund supporting economic development. The representative of the parliamentary group "Reformator's block" Dimitar Tanev expressed his opinion for strong support of the bill, saying that the draft is realistic, feasible and is in line with the government's programming declaration for a re-allocation burden of up to 40 percent, without new taxes, without new debts. In terms of spending policies, priorities in terms of defence and security, education and health are clearly outlined, which show a relative increase compared to the previous year. The representative of the parliamentary group of the party "Attack" Nikolay Alexandrov added that the higher costs incurred for sectors such as the "supposed" and the "Defense" must be compensated with a higher GDP generated by the economy and the creation of better economic conditions in the country, for which the responsibility and initiative of the Ministry of Economy must be strengthened. The discussion was attended by the representative of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Lyuben Tomev, the Chairman of the Union of Transport Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association Mr. Brankov, the Secretary General of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Vasil Todorov, the Executive Director of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, Dobrin Ivanov, and the Chairman of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria Ginka Chavdarova, who expressed his positive opinion on the Draft Law, saying that municipalities will have a more favourable budgetary framework for 2017, following the improved macro framework for the development of the state and good dialogue with the Ministry of Finance. A positive step is the increase in salaries for the municipal administration, which could be increased more. Ms. Chavdarova insisted on the growth of the matching subsidy for the poorest municipalities by improving the mechanism for determining subsidies for the municipalities of the central budget. The questions were answered in detail by Minister Goranov. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were obtained: 1. Under the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with included the Project of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u153	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs "The People's Representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u154	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva Minister of Justice, Mrs. Krasimira Filipova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Petya Tiankova Deputy Minister and Mrs. Evgenia Kotevska Director of Finance; from the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Vladimir Petrov Director of State Expenditure and Mrs. Asya Parvanova, Mrs. Stela Boyadjieva and Ms. Marinela Davidova Chief Experts at the Directorate of State Expenditures; from the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Dimitar Uzunov The draft budget of the judiciary for 2017, prepared by the Supreme Judicial Council, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Uzunov and Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva presented the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the same project. The 2017 budget has been drawn up in an updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2017 - 2019 - as the main priority of the fiscal policy carried out in the medium term is the aim of maintaining the stability of public finances. As regards the revenue side, the project of the Supreme Judicial Council proposes a reduction in the amount of revenue compared to 2016 by 32 million. lv. or provision for 108 million. lv. Revenue from the activities of the judicial authorities, of which 93 million lv. it is intended to be revenue from judicial fees. The Council of Ministers' proposal is for a total amount of revenue from the judiciary budget of 125 million. BGN 105 million lv. from court fees. On the cost side, in its project, the Supreme Judicial Council proposes a total cost of 597.7 million. BGN, of which 565 million lv. For current costs, which in absolute value represents an increase of 56,1 million. lv. from 2016 approved or growth of 11%. The proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council is in line with the need to predict an optimal amount of funds for the normal functioning of judicial institutions, providing additional costs necessary for their normal functioning and ensuring the rapid administration of justice and the establishment of information systems for the implementation of electronic justice. The Supreme Judicial Council foresees an increase in capital expenditure by 23,3 million. lv. in respect of 2016 approved The Council of Ministers, taking into account the requests made by the Supreme Judicial Council to secure the payment of remuneration and social security to those employed in the judiciary, according to the legal requirements and budgetary capabilities in view of the fiscal policy in place to safeguard the stability of public finances, foresees an increase of 47 million. lv. the total cost compared to 2016 or a total of 565 million. BGN aimed at increasing the funds for staff. Funds are also provided for the implementation of the new powers of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, as amended by the Law on the Judiciary. In the implementation of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the management of the real estate of the judiciary passes from the Ministry of Justice to the Supreme Judicial Council and the funds calculated for this purpose have been transferred from the budget of the Ministry of the Budget of the judiciary, and the Council of Ministers also provides 17.1 million. lv. capital expenditure necessary to maintain and renovate the material base in order to ensure optimal management and organisation of the work of the judiciary. With regard to a contingency and/or emergency reserve, the draft of the Supreme Judicial Council provides 900 thousand. BGN and according to the opinion of the Council of Ministers is determined the sum of 600 thousand. lv. According to the budgetary relations (transfers), the difference in the budgetary relationship with the central budget between the two projects is 49.7 million. BGN, representing an effective amount between planned revenue and expenditure on the budget of the judiciary. With regard to the texts proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council to art. 2 of the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, the Council of Ministers supports the proposed version of para. 4, para. 6 and para. 7. The Council of Ministers supports, in principle, the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council for the editing of para. 3 and para. 5, by offering their precision. About para. 8, The Council of Ministers does not support the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council on the grounds that the powers of the Council of Ministers are limited to the possibility of approving additional expenditure on the budget of the judiciary at the expense of the central budget when the balance of the state budget is not violated, in which case the resulting changes to the budget of the judiciary are made by the authorising officer with a budget under the budget of the judiciary. In addition, Mr. Uzunov pointed out that the draft budget for the judiciary submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council in 2017 was fully consistent with the policies set out in the roadmap of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. He clarified that the proposed by the Council of Ministers draft budget for the judiciary in 2017 differs in terms of the amount of expenditure by 32 million. BGN, which does not provide for expenditure on current maintenance and capital expenditure on management, management and rent of buildings, as well as expenses related to the remuneration of the jury. Mr. Uzunov urged MPs from the Committee on Legal Affairs to increase the cost of the proposed budget by the Council of Ministers by at least 10.6 million. lv. Ms. Zaharieva expressed her support for the proposed draft budget for the judiciary by the Council of Ministers. During the discussion took part the MPs Petar Slavov, Mihail Mikov and Daniel Kirilov. In response to Mr. Slavov's question regarding the expected revenue from court fees, Mr. Uzunov replied that the failure of the revenue for the previous year was 25 million. lv. Mr. Mikov asked whether the funds for the newly appointed powers of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council were provided for in the budget for the judiciary submitted by the Council of Ministers. In response Mrs. Tochkova pointed out that the new functions of the Inspectorate in the Draft Budget of the Council of Ministers provided for 20 new state units, salaries and insurance contributions, but the funds for capital expenditure and technical collateralisation of the activities entrusted with the amendment of the Law on the Judiciary are not sufficient. Mr. Uzunov added that the work of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council requires an additional 600 thousand. lv. The Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the 2017 State Budget to comply with and support the requests of the Supreme Judicial Council to increase the share of the budget in the proposed by the Council of Ministers draft budget for the judiciary by 11.2 million. lv. Following the discussion on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 5 votes in favour, 1 vote against the Republic of Bulgaria and 6 votes abstentioned, suggests to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, including the Draft for a budget of the judiciary drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council; - with 8 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour and 4 votes abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote the Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, including the draft budget of the judiciary with the opinion of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, then the Committee on Energy. You have the floor, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u156	♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November, 2016 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended: by the Ministry of Finance: Kiril Ananiev The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev. The main priorities of the state budget for 2017 are: improving the quality of education; improving the functioning of the health system; maintaining modern and combatable armed forces; the national energy efficiency programme for multifamily residential buildings and speedy absorption of funds from EU funds. The main priority of the fiscal policy carried out in the medium term is maintaining the stability of public finances. The expectations for real GDP growth in 2017 are to reach 2.5% and remain at relatively stable levels of 2.7% in 2018 and 2019. Gross domestic product is expected to reach 92 395 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, lv. The average annual inflation in 2017 is expected to be 1.5% and in the period 2018. To speed up to 1,6% and 1,8% levels in 2019. The downward trend continues in the unemployment rate and decline to 7.3% in 2017 at 8.1 percent for 2016 and the expected unemployment rate is 6.8% and 6.5% in 2018 and 2019. An increase of the minimum wage of 420 BGN is envisaged. in 2016 at 460 BGN in 2017 The KFP deficit for 2017 amounts to 1.4% of GDP. The planned KFP deficit for 2018 and 2019 is 1,0% of GDP and 0,5% of GDP, respectively. The deficit on the basis of the government sector for 2017 is expected to be 0.7% of GDP and the target level of the structural deficit for 2017 to be 0,5% of GDP. The estimated net debt financing for the period 2017 -2019 is expected to amount to about 25% of GDP at the end of the period, with no external debt issuance foreseen for 2017. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN and the costs of 36 769,6 million. lv. Total expenditure and contribution to the European Union budget as a share of GDP for 2017 is 39,8%, providing for a contraction of 38,2% of GDP in 2019. The costs of the basic functions of the KPIs for 2017, as a percentage of the total cost of the KPIs for 2017, shall be allocated as follows: - social security, support and care - economic activities and services - 16,5%; - Health supposed to 12 per cent; - Defence and Security.. 11.9%; - education - 9.6%; - housing, public works, communist agriculture and environmental protection - 6.8%; - general government services - rest case, culture, religious activities.. 1.8%. Under the draft budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2017 Deputy Minister Ananiev pointed out that revenues of 25 000 thousand were laid down. The increase compared to 2016 is due to the higher amount of revenue realised by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, Patent Office and others. With the planned expenditure for 2017 of 76 431,8 thousand. lv. Conditions shall be provided for increasing the potential for economic growth, improving the opportunities for participation in the single European market and third-country markets, as well as for effective external economic cooperation. In 2017, the Ministry of Economy will perform: 1. Policy: Sustainable economic development. 2. Externally-economic policy This appropriation is intended to cover The policy "Sustainable economic development' shall include total costs of 55 914.8 thousand. lv. and is implemented through nine programs. The external cooperation policy shall include a total cost of 13 517 thousand. lv. and is implemented with the programme "Realization of export potential and participation in the trade policy of the European Union." The amount of EUR 7,000 was provided for under the programme. lv. According to the budget of the Ministry of Tourism for 2017 there is a revenue of 8 607 thousand. BGN, as the increase compared to 2016 is due to the higher amount of realised revenues from concessions and public fees. The expenditure foreseen for 2017 amounts to 16 783,7 thousand. lv. In 2017, the Ministry of Tourism will implement a policy on sustainable tourism development, amounting to 14 473.5 thousand. lv. and is implemented with two programs: 1. P policy and regulations in the tourism sector and expenditure of 1,846.5 thousand. lv. 2. Development of national tourism advertising and international cooperation in the field of tourism and expenditure of 12 627.0 thousand. BGN 10 763.5 thousand for national tourist advertising. lv. The amount of EUR 2 310,2 thousand was provided for under the programme. lv. During the discussion, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov said he would not support the 2017 budget due to the macroeconomic imbalance, the lack of state policy to tackle poverty and increase staff costs. He added that the budget of the judiciary is contrary to the amendments made to the Law on the Judiciary and this will hinder the effective implementation of the obligations laid down in the Law. In conclusion, it is against the issue of a new debt of 1.9 billion. BGN, despite the promise of the Ministry of Finance that in a good implementation of the budget, this will not be necessary. Regarding the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, he expressed his opinion that the funds for international advertising are extremely insufficient and added that 15% of GDP is formed precisely by tourism. National Representative Zhelyo Boychev also disagreed with the 2017 budget. According to him, there is no policy for dealing with major social inequalities and poverty, for overcoming major regional differences and the demographic crisis. Regarding the budget of the Ministry of Economy, he said that there is no policy in support of the Bulgarian business and attracting investment, and without that it is difficult to have economic growth. People's representative Rumen Hristov said he will support the bill, but pointed out that in terms of business it is not a good policy to maintain the current framework, especially with regard to employers' commitment to social payments. People's representative Daniela Saveklieva said that the state budget for 2017 is balanced, conservative and feasible and said that between the two votes of the bill it is unacceptable to make amendments to endanger the budget balance. The Secretary General of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Vasil Todorov announced his support for the bill. He expressed reservations about the minimum wage, insurance thresholds and the budget deficit. In response to the questions raised by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev pointed out that an increase in staff costs is foreseen in critical sectors of education, for example. As regards debt, he clarified that the amount was 1.2 billion. lv. as a guarantee in the event of a deteriorating economic situation in the international context and ensuring the absorption of EU funds. Regarding the budget of the judiciary, Kiril Ananiev said that there are no differences with the SJC, with the exception of maintenance, but expressed hope that when optimizing costs a solution would be found. Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski added that the increase in staff costs in the Ministry was dictated by the establishment of a new directorate, with control powers of the dams, to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. Written opinions on the bill were received by the Fiscal Council, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria and the CNSB. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2: no............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u157	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Following is a report from the Energy Commission. Her chairman, Mr. Delyan Dobrev, will present it to her. To prepare the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u158	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its regular meeting held on 16 November 2016, the Energy Commission discussed a bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Zhecho Stankov and Mr. Nikolay Nikolov Deputy- Ministers, Ms. Tatiana Seculova President Ivan Ivanov, Rositsa Totkova, Secretary General, Julian Mitev, Director of General Administration and Evgenia Smatrakaleva General Accountant; from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency: Dr. Lachezar Kostov, Chairman and Svetlinira Harizanova Director, AFPSO Directorate. Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, presented the draft budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2017 through which government policy in the energy sector will be implemented. The aim of the ministry is to develop a competitive and stable energy market that is successfully integrated, both in regional energy markets and in the common energy market of the European Union. Accelerated work will be done to implement the priority energy infrastructure projects. The revenues provided for in the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 for the Ministry of Energy amounted to 255 000 thousand. BGN, with 10 736,7 thousand. lv. more compared to 2016. In order to implement policy on sustainable and competitive energy development, expenditure of 115 302.3 thousand is foreseen in the draft budget for 2017. BGN, at 111 832,3 thousand lv. for 2016, the strategic goal of policy is to create secure, efficient and environmentally friendly energy. In order to achieve the strategic objective, three operational objectives are set: guaranteed security of supply in competitive energy markets; efficient and environmentally friendly energy development; efficient management of energy resources. The draft budget provides for an increase in staff costs of 586,0 thousand. lv.; increase of subsidies to the Fund of RAOs and the Fund of Out-of-use nuclear facilities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.; reduction of maintenance costs and other running costs by 5.5 thousand lv. Despite the non-compliance of proposals by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, draft budget for both revenue and expenditure, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall assess the efforts to increase its budget for 2017 in its expenditure as a positive step to ensure the performance of its regulatory functions. The KEWRC continues to address the following issues: providing funds for the full number of staff under the Rules of Procedure of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and its administration, raising the level of salaries of the Commission staff and providing an appropriate building for the administration of the KEWRC. Mr. Lachezar Kostov set out the budget of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, saying he defined the increase of 723 thousand as progress. lv. in the statement of expenditure and made a recommendation for the award of an additional 150 thousand. BGN for price pero "Personal." Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 7 votes in favour and 7 votes abstentioned, suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will be presented to us by his President, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 16 November 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The bill was presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova. The updated medium-term budget forecast for 2017-2019 provides for an increase in the minimum wage from 1 January 2017 to 460 BGN. and keeping this amount for 2018 and 2019 The insurance policy for the period 2017-2019 provides for the preservation of the social security contribution ratios for the public funds. For 2017 and 2018, the amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund is increased by one percentage point each, the aim of which is to reduce the shortage of funds under the budget of the DVO and its subsidies from the state budget. As of 2017, there is also an increase in the contribution to the Fund for Pensions for the persons under art. The CSR's 69's with 20 percentage points. The pension policy shall provide for a gradual increase in the burden of one year of insurance service in the pension formula by a percentage equal to or greater than the percentage determined by the rule of art. 100 of the Social Security Code. For 2017, the rate for each year of insurance service is 1,126 (2.4% increase). From 1 January 2017, the required insurance internship to acquire pension entitlement shall be increased by 2 months each year until 35 and 8 months for women and 38 and 8 months for men in 2019. As regards social policy, importers of the State Budget Bill through the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy have made the following priorities: 1. Employment policy. The 2017-2019 forecast includes actions to increase the quality of the workforce and support the increase in employment. The actions envisaged contribute to the country's objectives and commitments in implementation of the EU Strategy "Europe 2020", the specific recommendations of the Council of the EU, the National Plan for the Implementation of the European Youth Guarantee 2014-2020 and other strategic documents. In the field of active labour market policy, action aimed at higher and more sustainable employment and integration into the labour market of unemployed and inactive workers at work by promoting new jobs and improving intermediary employment services will be a priority. A major priority will also be to reduce youth unemployment and inactivity by fulfilling the European Youth Guarantee, as well as access to quality, practically oriented training, providing knowledge and skills in line with business needs. Budget 2017 sets out total consolidated expenditure within 329 536.5 thousand. lv. They will spend 101 175,5 thousand on the budget of the state budget. lv. and 238 359,0 thousand. lv. from other budgets and accounts for EU funds. These funds will achieve the following social effect: 205 000 people will be put to work on the primary market; 17 250 persons will be employed by programme and measures; 10 185 unemployed persons will be included in adult training courses; 142 860 persons will be included in individual professional orientation; 32 500 persons will be included in group professional orientation. 2.Social benefits and benefits With regard to social benefits and benefits paid from the DCI budget, the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2017 - 2019 has been developed under the reserved parameters of the legislation in force in the Social Security Code and on the basis of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2016, namely: - the period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is maintained and the amount of compensation for raising a young child from one to two years of age is 340 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the payment of monetary benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days shall be paid by the insurance provider in the amount of 70 per cent of the average daily gross remuneration, and from the 4th day of non-employment shall be paid by the DEA; - the period from which short-term benefits for temporary incapacity are calculated shall be maintained; - the amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is maintained• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the maximum amount of the guaranteed claims is maintained. In planning the funds, the medium term will continue efforts to promote the employment of long-term unemployed people at work in order to reduce the number of passive users of social aid and create an opportunity to redirect resources to those who need them the most. The policy on social protection and equal opportunities for the period 2017 - 2019 will continue to develop in line with the objectives set in the strategic documents and programmes. Priority remains to ensure the social protection of vulnerable groups of the population through better focus on social aid, improving the effectiveness of programmes, applying a differentiated approach, improving the social assistance regulations and optimizing the institutional structure related to the social protection of the lowest income and risk groups of the population. In the area of integration of people with disabilities, an integrated policy management approach will be applied. The integration policy of disabled people is linked to universality and full use of rights without any discrimination. The policy on the integration of people with disabilities is aimed at creating conditions and guarantees for equality, social integration and the exercise of rights, protection of people with disabilities and their families, as well as their integration into a working environment. In the area of support policy for families with children, priority is to improve the effectiveness and focus of family support in raising children in a family environment. It is envisaged for all children with permanent disabilities to provide assistance to meet the basic and specific needs due to disability. For children of 90 and over 90 per cent species and a degree of disability or a degree of permanent reduced performance, which are raised by their parents or adoptive parents, it is envisaged that the aid will be higher in order to provide care and support for these children in a home and family environment. Families where children with permanent disabilities are accommodated under art. 26 of the Child Protection Act will also be entitled to new assistance, but for them it will not include means of care in a home environment. The aid will be granted independently of the income of the families and they will, at their discretion, manage these funds and decide whether to personally take care of their children or hire an assistant. The new type of aid will be granted from 1 January 2017 to more than 26 000 children. On the basis of the criteria laid down for determining the amounts of aid, depending on the extent of the damage or the degree of reduced performance and according to its intended purpose, the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 proposed differentiated amounts of aid, and for children of defined 90 and over 90 per cent type and degree of disability the aid is of the highest size (930 BGN) and for children of 50 to 70 per cent of the degree of disability at the lowest level (350 BGN). The high amount of aid to children with the most severe disabilities takes into account that their parents have much more serious costs and needs than other families. The financial parameters of these policies are expressed in the following numbers. For social protection policy and equal opportunities, the total costs are 277 415.6 thousand. lv. Of that, 148, 429,9 thousand. lv. are to provide social assistance in the application of a differentiated approach, 96 100,6 thousand. lv. are to provide targeted social protection for heating the low income population, 32 775.1 thousand. lv. for the social inclusion of other risk groups of the population and 110,0 thousand. lv. for the program equal opportunities. The policy in the field of people with disabilities will be spent 251 287.6 thousand BGN. For social inclusion policy, 648 355.7 thousand will be spent. lv. The Commission received the opinions of the social partners as well as the Fiscal Council of Bulgaria. The Members of the National Assembly were also acquainted with a Protocol from the Joint Meeting of the Committee on Budget Policy and the Committee on Insurance Relations at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, drawn up with regard to the Draft State Budget for 2017. Upon completion of the presentation of the Draft Budget 2016 was held a discussion involving MPs Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Venka Stoyanova, Hasan Ademov, Dimitar Tanev. Overall, the speeches referred to the fact that the budget of the state was balanced and realistic. It provides sure guarantees that the state will function normally. It is better for 2016, but it also contains weaknesses. An example is the undeveloped income policy, the lack of management efforts to deal with poverty, etc. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with results was held: 1. Under a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 including a Draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016: no votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016: 9 votes On the basis of the discussion, both votes with these results, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 by the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31.10.2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. We continue with the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers At its regular meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Department of Finance of the Municipalities and Mrs. Ginka Chavdarova, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, presented to the Commission the draft Ministry budget and information on the funds provided for in the project for the main policies, programmes and activities carried out by the ministry. The costs of the activity are divided into three main policies and nine budget programmes carried out by the ministry. Attention was paid to the increase in revenue, which is the result of increased revenue from wine fees and improvements in the activities and services offered by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency. Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities in the Ministry of Finance, presented to the MPs detailed information on the projections of the Draft in its section on the relations between the central budget and the budgets of the municipalities. The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 provides for a general subsidy for the activities delegated by the State of 2 423 034.2 thousand. BGN, transfers for local activities including total matching subsidy 274 000,0 thousand lv. and transfer for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads 30 228.1 thousand. BGN, target capital subsidy 154090,2 thousand lv. Ms. Ginka Chavdarova Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria presented the opinion of the municipalities under the Law. The municipalities' proposals to increase transfers in certain activities, the reasons and the specific amount of the additional funds required are set out in detail in the minutes of the consultations on the bill signed between the Minister of Finance and the Association. An additional opinion was presented containing the priority proposals concerning the most actual problems of the municipalities, namely the increase in funds for municipal administration, the increase in the amount of the matching subsidy for the poorest municipalities and the increase in the amount of the target subsidy for capital expenditure in order to partially overcome chronic underfinancing of municipal roads. During the discussion the MPs raised a number of questions related to the different parameters of the budget, to which the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works answered. Attention was paid to the issues related to the possibilities for realization of sites in the road infrastructure, the energy efficiency programme, the renovation of residential buildings, as well as the proposal of municipalities to increase transfers in certain activities. The MPs united around the idea between the two votes of the Bill to seek additional reserves and opportunities to provide the funds to meet the priority demands of the municipalities set out in the additional opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with no.................................................................................................. 1 and 2 shall not be adopted in the first vote. With 10 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers, on the draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. Following is the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova will present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u164	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law No 602-01-64 on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At a regular meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly examined the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 in its part for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2017 was presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Hristo Angelichin. Ladinka Mihaylova, Director of the Directorate of Budget and Finance, in the Ministry of Finance, briefed the Commission on the general framework and priorities of the budget 2017. For the purposes of programming budgeting and taking into account the administrative functional distribution in the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ten programmes allocated in three policies have been formulated to achieve greater accountability. A strategic goal of the policy for the development of an effective diplomatic service is an effectively functioning administration. The operational objectives are developed in two programmes: "Administration and provision of the diplomatic service" and "Management of foreign missions and support of Bulgarian citizens abroad." A strategic goal of public diplomacy policy is to generate a favourable internal and external environment, ensuring successful implementation of the foreign policy programme and its priorities. The operational objectives of this policy follow the general and specific objectives of public and cultural diplomacy and are defined in two programs "Public activities" and "Cultural diplomacy." The strategic goal of the policy of active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy is to develop and defend successive national positions through coordinated, targeted and systematic actions. The policy objectives are developed in six programmes: The Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 defines: revenue, expenditure, transfers and subsidies from the central budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main parameters of the 2017 Budget Project in its part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are as follows: - The own revenues amount to 62 000 000 BGN. - The costs are BGN 128 358 000. - Subsidy of BGN 68 058 700. of which 1,700 BGN for transfers between budgets and accounts for EU funds. The allocation of expenditure on policies and budgetary programmes shall be confirmed as follows: - Policy in the field of development of an effective diplomatic service - Public Diplomacy Policy - BGN 730 700 - Active bilateral and multilateral diplomacy policy - BGN 19 915 900 The maximum costs that can be borne in 2017 and the maximum costs obligations that can be incurred in 2017 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which amount to BGN 104 879 900, shall be confirmed. Targeted current and capital transfers to abroad for official development aid and humanitarian aid totaling BGN 6 000 000, which cannot be spent for other purposes, and no more than 5% of these funds can be spent to administer the aid. In line with the implementation of the central budget, additional for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planned to be provided 9 200 000 BGN. for capital expenditures, mainly for repairs and renovation of properties abroad, for equipment of NATO's new accommodation and others. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 8 votes for the European Parliament and 4 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Following is a report from the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u166	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I will introduce you to the report of the Defence Committee. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At a regular meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Defence Committee discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. 13 MPs took part in the meeting. The meeting was attended by Deputy Ministers of Defence Desislava Yosifova and Orhan Ismailov, Director of the Directorate of Planning, Programming and Budget. Angel Marinov, State Expert at the Ministry of Finance Marusya Grbacheva and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Laura Kendova. The Deputy Minister of Defence Desislava Yosifova presented to the MPs the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which for 2017 was set to be BGN 1, 080 267 000. It is distributed in two main sections of revenue of 44 000 000 BGN. and expenses 1 024 953 000 BGN, including capital expenditure 55 314 000 BGN. These funds cover two policy areas and 1 008 910 000 BGN is allocated for the priority in the field of defence capabilities. either 93,4%; It is ensured that the means of defence for the next year are not lower than the level of the sector's approved minimum in accordance with the decision of the National Security Advisory Council of the President of 27 April 2015. This budget corresponds directly to the decision taken at the NATO Summit in Wales (2014). for a gradual increase in defence expenditure by 2020. Additional funds are provided for in the Central Budget for the implementation of the Air Force and Navy re-arming projects of 402 000 000 BGN. The share of defence spending in the Ministry of Defence's budget is planned to reach 1.17% of GDP without the transfers to the Ministry of Defence, and with them up to 1.2%. With the funds from the Central Budget, defence expenditures increased to 1.66% of GDP. The increase in the budget of the Ministry, amounting to BGN 78 830 000, goes mainly to: covering the insurance of the servicemen, increased by 20%; changes in the amount of the minimum wage for the country from 420 to 460 BGN. and the increase in the amount of insurance contributions to the DEA for the Fund "Pensions" by 1%. A supplement and clarification on the budget of the Ministry of Defence made the state expert from the Ministry of Finance Marusya Grbacheva. People's representatives Atanas Zafirov, Miho Mihov, Petar Slavov, Valentin Radev, Yanko Yankov, Hristo Gajev, Vladimir Toshev, Korman Ismaylov and Angel Naydenov took part in the debates. The majority of the MPs united around the thesis that Budget 2017 is a step forward in implementing the adopted course for gradual increase in defence spending. The planned, together with the central budget funds, growth of 0,3% compared to the previous year is in full line with commitments made to increase defence costs and change the cost of staff-support-capital expenditure ratio in favour of capital expenditure. These targeted funds will help increase the defence capabilities of the Air and Naval Forces in a complex and difficult predictable international environment. The increase in army support funds by about 7 million. lv. will partly stop the decline in their preparation and is a good prerequisite for acquiring new abilities from formations. In their speeches, part of the MPs pointed out that despite the increased means of defence that are going to cover compulsory payments, the DOD budget will not provide the expected by all the appointments in 2017 of 500 holiday servicemen, the increase in wages of all civilian employees working on a minimum wage, as well as the need for support funds, spare parts for military equipment and ammunition, and the cost of increased admission of students. No funds are planned to cover the expected costs of border guards by the armed forces. The recommendations of the Defence Committee in the adoption of last year's budget and of the Ministry of Defence's.20 for the launch of the process of acquisition of a new armored machine for the Land Forces have not been taken into account. This puts the main type of armed forces at a disadvantage with the Air Force and the Navy, which could lead to a collapse in their ability to carry out the ever-growing tasks ahead of them due to the leakage of the resources of the old war machines. There is also blame for this the Ministry of Defence, which did not speed up the process of updating the project and its adoption by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, which is why the Ministry of Finance has no reason to plan the necessary funds. According to the MPs, it is unacceptable the basis for determining the basic monthly remuneration for the lowest position of the servicemen to remain at the level of 2015, provided that the minimum wage is planned to increase to BGN 460. With such detention and a sensitive delay on the basis of the minimum wage. The Ministry of Defence will not be able to implement its program to overcome the personnel in troops, which is already up to 25%. Moreover, the process of leaving the armed forces has become out of control, with other methods and means it can be strengthened. In general, the lack of funds in the Ministry of Defence's budget is estimated to be around 200 million. BGN, which should be granted in order to hold our armed forces at their current level of combatability. In the 2017-2019 budget forecast of the Ministry of Defence in programming format are properly structured sections which define the Ministry of Defence's mission, capacity and organizational development and defence policies. The objectives, benefits to society and the organisational structures for their implementation are defined. The main parameters of the 2017 budget forecast are allocated to basic programmes. The total expenditure under the programmes is correctly scheduled and divided into government expenditure and administrative expenditure. The MPs noted that the Ministry of Defence could improve planning regarding the proper allocation of capital expenditure in priority directions and programmes. Anxiety among the MPs is the ongoing under-financing of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. The consolidated expenditure of 40 million 478.4 thousand. lv. do not allow the fulfilment of the obligations arising from European and national legislation. The shortage of funds under the programme is directly related to the national security of the country. The shortage of over 83 million. lv. under the programme "Processes for emergency situations of oil and petroleum products and target stocks of On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 8 votes in favour, 4 votes in opposition and 1 vote in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. A report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Mr. Rumen Ivanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, No 602-01-64, together with an updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2017. At an extraordinary meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, together with an updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, representing reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Nadezhda Genova The position on the submitted Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 was presented by Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. The draft budget of the Ministry of Interior (MI) provides staff costs for the intended actual number for 2017. A total of 46,000 employees. Of the planned current expenditure on the draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017, a total of 1 billion. The Commission 653 thousand. BGN, of which 1 billion 106 million. Seven hundred and sixty-three thousand. lv. are estimated as staff, representing 90% of the budget. For maintenance and other running costs, 111 million remain. 890 thousand. lv. These funds cannot provide the minimum needs of the structures of the Ministry for the implementation of the main activities in the protection of public order and security, countering crime, guarding the state borders of the Republic of Bulgaria and ensuring the fire safety and protection of the population against fires, disasters and accidents, as well as other activities involving the Ministry, requiring the provision of significant resources, namely the issuance of Bulgarian personal documents and others. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). $520,000. lv. The necessary costs of maintenance under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with Nine hundred and ninety-six thousand. BGN, declared to ensure optimal needs of the structures. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: 947 thousand. lv. commitments and urgent needs should be ensured. In the framework of the designated draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017 funds for capital expenditure remain uninsured at really precise needs, totaling 53 million. 137,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the 537 thousand. lv. It should be borne in mind that the so-defined draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017 cannot also provide funds for 2000 staff members of the Security Service to counter migration pressure for one year will require about 25 million. BGN, and for 3000 employees, BGN 37.5 million.; funds for the protection of public order and the fight against crime during the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria of the European Union in 2018, which will require an additional amount of around 21 million. lv. No funds have been provided for the State-owned enterprise "Center for the provision of services" with effect from 1 January 2017 and costs for the provision of the activities of the issue of the Bulgarian personal documents. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 33.8 million. lv. The draft budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017 related to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 requested funds from the Ministry of Interior structures for 2017 as follows: for 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Eight hundred and BGN 794. for 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is 790 thousand. BGN 002, which should be provided for the allocation of the expenditure provided for in the central budget for these activities. When presenting the draft budget of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the President of the Commission Evtim Kostadinov specified that 3 415 000 BGN were provided. The planned funds will fulfil the objectives and tasks planned for 2017. However, it also raised the question that this budget does not provide security funds for the sites mentioned in the Law. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, there are budget funds of BGN 2,450 000, of which BGN 2,250 000. for current expenditure and 200 000 BGN for capital expenditure. Mr. Karadjov supports the budget policy at stake, but draws attention to the negative trend of the indicator "Personal" and noted new activities in 2017 and 2018, as the adoption of a new Data Protection Regulation is under way, which will require additional activities from the Commission. In connection with the construction of a training center for repair of the provided building are needed 1 200 000 BGN, which is not provided for in their budget. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 on the activities of the State Agency "State Reserve and Wartime Stocks" provides for budget funds of BGN 40 478 400. Mr. Peev said that it does not reflect the real needs of the state in this area. The main problem is the commitments under the Law on mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum products, where another year there is a default and the deficit is 94 million. lv. and with regard to state reserves and wartime reserves, where the deficit is 86 million. lv. The discussion was attended by the President of the Commission Tsvetan Tsvetanov, the national representative Atanas Merdjanov and Valentin Radev, who expressed a position related to the need to discuss between the first and second votes to secure the deficit of funds in the sector. They also raised the question that this budget does not provide funds for the protection of the sites of state structures. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, 3 votes against the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, together with an updated budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, representing the reasons for the Draft Law and the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft budget of the judiciary for 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. With the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we will be introduced by its President. "The People's Representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Regulation for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 15 November 2016, discussing the quoted bill. The main parameters of the agricultural bill are as follows: 1. The draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2017 The revenue provided for is EUR 159 million. lv. The proposed cost ceiling is approximately 205,5 million. BGN, of which: for staff of 113.5 million BGN 7,8 million for capital expenditure lv. It is described how these funds are allocated under budget programmes, the maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made and the maximum amount of new commitments. In the context of current expenditure, 15 million have been established. lv. for the provision of a public service to protect against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems and 1.7 million EAD lv. to ensure the implementation of the activities of the Executive Agency, the Certification Audit of European Agricultural Funds Funds, which cannot be rerouted for other purposes. 2. According to the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2017 The planned revenues amount to BGN 11.2 million. The expenditure ceiling of the fund is around 367.7 million. BGN, of which for subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations lv. It is described how these funds are allocated under budget programmes, the maximum amount of expenditure commitments that can be made and the maximum amount of new commitments. Common agricultural policy The single area payment scheme for direct payments provides for the use of 1 553.5 million. lv. European funds. In order to finance market measures, the total budget amounted to 131,3 million. BGN, of which 86.5 million lv. European funding and 44,8 million lv. National co-financing. The second pillar of the common agricultural policy for rural development provides for 775.6 million. BGN, of which 623.2 million lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. National co-financing and advance payments. Under the Common Fisheries Policy The funds our country plans to absorb under the European Union's fisheries policy programmes are 34.8 million. BGN 26.1 million lv. European funding and 8.7 million lv. National co-financing and advance payments. The State Fund will continue to finance expenditure on value added tax for municipalities under approved support projects under the various programmes. It is intended to maintain the tax preference for a reduced rate of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production, with 84 million established for this purpose. lv. The period of application of the VAT reverse charge mechanism for the supply of cereals and technical crops within the maximum time limit until 31 December 2018 shall be extended. The tax relief under Article will also apply. 189b of the Corporate Income Tax Act, which constitutes State aid to farmers. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill. It proposes that between the first and second votes of the Bill these staff funds should be increased by an additional 4.5 million. lv. at the expense of reducing maintenance costs. Thus, the increase in salaries in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Regional Takes note that in relation to the provision of the activities of the Executive Agency, the purchase of anti-urban missiles worth 5.5 million is necessary; BGN, which are not planned in the budget of the Ministry, because until now the funds are provided by decrees of the Council of Ministers from the reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenses. The Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Agriculture has called on the MPs to support the additional increase in staff funds. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria was said to refrain from supporting the bill. The ABB Parliamentary Group has stated that they will not support the bill. The political party GERB parliamentary group said they support the bill. The Reformation bloc also said support, but stressed that they would oppose possible populist proposals between first and second readings. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Food: - with 0 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 0 votes against the Council of Ministers and 15 abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly not to support the first vote Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under Art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. - with 9 votes for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602 01 64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2. "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, the President of the Commission will introduce us to the people representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November, The Commission of Education and Science has examined the above-mentioned Draft Law 2016. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Education and Science: Mr. Dian Stamatov Deputy Minister, Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General, Mrs. Sonya Krastanova, Director of the Directorate of Finance and from the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Alexandra Dimitrova, State Expert at the Directorate of State Revenues and Acad. Stefan Vodenicharov Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences; Prof. Stefan Vodenicharov Lyuben Totev "President of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in Bulgaria; Mrs. Yanka Takeva "President of the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers; Assoc. Ljiljana Valcheva President of the National Branch Syndicate "Victitious Education and Science" (SSC); Mr. Valeri Apostolov Chairman of Syndicate "High Education" at KT "Supporta"; Prof. Anastas Gerdjikov Mr. Vasil Velev Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria; Mrs. Yana Vangelova Chairman of the National Representation of Student Councils, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations. In the field of education and science policy, the bill was presented by Mr. Krassimir Valchev, Secretary General of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Law proposes that the total estimated cost of education for 2017 should be 3,350,0 million. BGN, or 3.6% of gross domestic product. The cost increase compared to 2016 was 229,5 million. lv. The total amount of funds provided for the pre-school and school education system is 2,473,1 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. As compared to 2016 The increase in costs in the pre-school and school education system is envisaged to implement the following activities and policies: - increase in the remuneration of teachers and staff in the system of pre-school and school education - 138 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - differentiation of the cost standards for financing kindergartens in order to ensure the shortage of funds for institutions from the pre-school education system in small and medium-sized municipalities lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - increase of the cost standards for technical professional directions in professional high schools - 4 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - provision of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits for free use by students in I, II, V and VI class in connection with the introduction of the new educational structure lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - extending the support of the state for the preservation of the Bulgarian ethnocultural space and of the national and spiritual identity of Bulgarian citizens abroad by financing the study of Bulgarian language and literature, history and geography of Bulgaria in Sunday schools abroad lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - to provide physical access to educational institutions through the introduction of protected kindergartens, to extend the right of free transport for students from 16 years to the completion of secondary education, as well as to the maintenance of buses provided for the use of the schools.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - realization of the concept of inclusive education laid down in the Pre-school and School Education Act - 6 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - implementation of the Strategy for the implementation of modern information and communication technologies in schools through the implementation of e-learning educational content lv. The draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 plans to finance the following main programmes and activities in the system of pre-school and school education: - Supporting the education and training activities of children and students in kindergartens and schools..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. The funds for additional funding of protected kindergartens and schools are also included in this activity. - Supporting equal access and support for the personal development of children and students - 297,8 million BGN, the largest is the share of the expenses for the full-time organization of the school day for students from I to VII grade. It also includes funds for student scholarships, student dormitories, cognitive books, textbooks and study kits for free use by students from I to VII grade and in preparatory groups, transportation to children and students, inclusive education of children and students with special educational needs, support to students with prominent gifts and others. - Development of kindergartens and schools - 58,0 million lv. for improvement of the material base of municipal and state kindergartens and schools; for transport to pedagogical specialists lv. - Realization of national programmes for secondary education - 58,0 million lv. - For the preservation and development of the cultural identity of children and students in Bulgarian communities abroad, organized by Sunday schools abroad...................................................................................... lv. In the field of higher education, the budgetary policy is aimed at implementing the reforms launched in the sector, which are in line with the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education and the Higher Education Act adopted by the Forty- Third National Assembly. The figures for higher education for 2017 increased by 15.1 million. The total amount of the loans amounted to 734.1 million. lv. The support funds for the training are 326.1 million. BGN, of which 135.3 million lv. the total maintenance amount is determined according to the comprehensive assessment of the quality of training and its compliance with the needs of the labour market. An increase of 3 million is also envisaged. lv. of the funds for student scholarships and 1 million lv. for consolidation and optimization programmes of state universities. A mechanism shall be established to ensure that no less than 75 per cent of the revenue from the training fees and from the State budget for the maintenance of training, determined on the basis of the comprehensive quality assessment received in a separate professional direction, will be used to finance costs for the same professional direction. According to the "Science" function, with the 2017 budget project, the estimated funds increased by 37.9 million compared to 2016. lv. An additional 7 million is envisaged. lv. For activities under the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure, as well as 7 million lv. for access to full text international databases of scientific publications. The transfer to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is 78.3 million. lv. By the Ministry of Education and Science and includes an increase of 5 million. lv. as compared to 2016, with the aim of increasing the remuneration of employees. The following discussion included MPs Milena Damyanova, Stanislav Stanilov, Stoyan Mirchev, Boyka Marinska, Borislav Velikov, Snezhana Dukova, Galya Zaharieva, as well as representatives of union organizations in the field of education, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Council of Rectors, the National Representation of Student Councils and employers' organizations. Fundamental support for the Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 was expressed. Mrs. Yanka Takeva stressed that the increase in funds for the pre-school and school education system is the most significant because, for the first time since the 1990s, the reform started with the adoption of the Pre-school and School Education Act was pre-funded by financial resources. It was said that high scientific achievements could not be achieved without good basic education. The proposed draft budget for 2017 provides funds for improving the material base, for the first time funds are laid down, except for the purchase of new buses, and for the maintenance of the old fleet. It was clear that the funds envisaged to increase the salaries of pedagogical specialists by an average of 8 per cent in 2017 are ahead of the minimum wage in the country, as a measure to attract young specialists to the pedagogical profession. It was proposed to differentiate standards for technical professional directions. A positive assessment was given to the Project Budget in the field of higher education, as for the first time in years funds were provided for the implementation of the reform of higher education. Representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences expressed concern about the size of the salaries of lecturers in higher schools and researchers. Questions were raised as to the possibilities for an increase in the subsidy provided for the science function. There were concerns that the budgetary philosophy carried out creates adverse conditions for the development of Bulgarian science, as well as that there is a lag from the rate of increase in the share of state funding for the science of gross domestic product provided for in the National Reform Programme. The representative of the Ministry of Education and Science explained that there was a thorough dialogue with the scientific community on the organization of scientific infrastructure, the introduction of budgetary programming and the mechanisms for evaluation of scientific work, which would have a direct impact on the level of remuneration of Bulgarian scientists. The opportunities offered by the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" were also mentioned. After the discussion was concluded and the outcome vote was held:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u173	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Vice-President Ivan Cholakov, the national representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its regular meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Minister Krasen Kralev presented the Draft for the State Budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. He informed the MPs that the draft law on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 fixed expenditure of 74 million for the Ministry. 429 thousand. BGN, which is 2 million. 217,000. lv. or 3,1% more than 2016 The allocation of funds is for the following defined policies: - Sport policy for students in leisure time. The funds provided for for 2017 amount to 15 million. 424 thousand. BGN, which is 1 million. 951,000. lv. or nearly 15% more than in 2016. This budget programme also includes the funds for State-sponsored activities required to support the six sports schools financed through the Ministry's budget, kindergartens, etc.; - Sport policy for excellence. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 641 thousand. lv. Or an average of 1 million. 80,000. lv. less than 2016. This comes to the point that this year there will be no Olympic Games. In 2017, the restructuring of indicators and funds under budgetary programmes continued with a view to implementing the philosophy regarding the activities that will be financially supported, namely by giving priority to federations who have athletes with won medals and subpoenas ranked by the last three summer Olympic Games; - A policy in the field of bringing sports objects and facilities into a form that conforms to modern international standards. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 158,000. lv. The reduction in funds compared to 2016 was 760 thousand. lv. In conclusion, Minister Kralev explained that the 2017 budget continues the trend for targeting more funds for children-youth and mass sports, as well as the expansion of the covered sports under the Program for the Development of Sports for people with disabilities. Last but not least is the sports infrastructure where the funds are directed to build and reconstruct training and sports facilities. Director of Labour Market and Labour Mobility Policy Ms. Elka Dimitrova presented this part of the draft budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which relates to the implementation of employment policy for unemployed young people up to 29 years of age. Within the framework of the budget programme, the provision of employment and the improvement of the quality of the workforce of unemployed and employed persons is provided for 73 million. lv. implementing the European Youth Guarantee. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2017 provides for 2 million. lv. for the activation of 3,000 inactive young people up to 29 years of age and 10.2 million lv. to provide employment to 6000 young people until 29 C.E. The budget for 2017 of the State Agency for Child Protection is 1 million. 415 thousand. BGN, with this amount not changed compared to 2016 On the part of the Ministry of Health Deputy Minister Dr. Adam Persenski presented the budget programme "Medicosocial care for children in disabilities" included in the draft budget of the Ministry of Health for 2017. Following the discussion, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has voted as follows: 1. Under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, including a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:......................................................................................................................... 15 votes.................................................................................................................................... 2. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with an opinion from the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2:............................................................................................................ 5 votes. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. The Health Committee will introduce you to the President of the Commission, Mrs. Daniela Daritkova. The Committee on Environment and Water follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), Dr. Glinka Komitov, Governor of NHIF, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Dr. Petar Moskov. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that a level of expenditure is planned with the 2017 draft budget to ensure the financing of the commitments and activities that are legally assigned to carry out through the budget of the Ministry of Health. According to the draft budget for 2017, the total estimated costs of the Ministry of Health amounted to 458 million 847 thousand and 700 BGN, with these funds to finance activities, policies and programmes in the field of public health protection and control, activities under national health programmes carried out by the budgetary structures of the Ministry of Health, emergency aid and all other activities related to public health. Priority areas and activities will continue to be emergency medical care, e-health, mother and child health care, hospital care facilities as well as drug policy. Minister Moskov stressed that the implementation of the reform in the sector will continue on the basis of the adopted changes in the Law on Medical Institutions and in the Health Insurance Act, which will be aimed at improving access to complex medical activities, increasing the satisfaction of Bulgarian citizens with the quality of the provided medical services, adequate funding and achieving financial sustainability of the sector in the medium term. The budget of the Ministry of Health will finance programmes and activities carried out by public health budgetary structures, emergency aid, stationary psychiatric assistance, medical and social care for children, treatment abroad and others. The planned financial resource will be spent to secure national programmes and central supplies for the prevention, control and treatment of socially significant diseases, to provide vaccines for compulsory immunizations and reimmunizations, as well as training for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system. The state's commitments regarding the financing of certain activities in hospital care institutions that remain state-owned..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2017, the Ministry of Health will continue to provide a transfer to the National Health Insurance Fund to finance the costs of medicinal products and activities for their implementation under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act, for activities for health uninsured persons, including activities for outpatient follow-up of patients with mental and skin diseases, intensive treatment, activities under art. 82, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Act and the supplementary payment of the amount for visiting a doctor/meditator in dentistry and medical institutions by persons who have exercised the right to a pension for internship and age. The 2017 draft budget also estimated funds for health care in municipalities in line with the increase of the minimum wage of staff in nurseries, children's kitchens and health mediators, providing for an increase in the number of health mediators. The President of the National Patient Organization, Dr. Stanimir Hasrdzhiev, drew attention to the need to increase the funds for the financial provision of the National Programme for Prevention and Control of HIV, the medicinal products under Regulation No 34 for patients with AIDS, tuberculosis and dependences and the mandatory and recommended immunizations and reimmunizations, according to the Immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. He pointed out that the financial parameters proposed in the bill would be difficult to carry out planned activities under these policies. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the following results: 1. Under a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Under a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the above results, the Committee on Health suggests to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u177	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. A report from the Committee on Environment and Waters will introduce you to its President Stanislav Ivanov. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading a Draft Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva Minister, Ms. Reneta Georgieva Executive Director of POSDOS, Mrs. Maria Glovdeva Accountant at POSDOS; by the Ministry of Finance Ms. Nikolina Apostolova Senior Expert at the Directorate of State Expenditure and Mr. Konstantin Iliev Senior Expert at the Directorate of National Fund. Minister Vasileva presented the draft state budget in the part of the Environment and Budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. It stressed that the environmental policy carried out during the 2017 forecast period will be implemented through consistent and coherent implementation of environmental projects and by reducing the overall pressures of different sources and economic activities on the environment. Among the main priorities in the field of environment is the continuation of the accelerated construction of the country's ecological infrastructure and the Natura 2000 ecological network. These activities will contribute to improving the quality of life of the population and protecting ecosystems, as well as to fulfilling the country's commitments to the European Union. In the area of climate change reduction, it is intended to ensure a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure long-term planning of adaptation measures to climate change. This will be implemented by taking national measures and introducing European and international mechanisms. One of the main highlights in the environmental policies carried out over the next three-year period will be the development of the environmental potential of the economy. The introduction of environmentally friendly technologies and productions will continue in reducing the consumption of primary raw materials and resources. Other activities are the prevention and limitation of industrial pollution, the promotion of recycling, the development of agri-environment practices, organic agriculture and eco-tourism, which protect the country's natural wealth and prevent adverse effects on human health. In the coming years, the Ministry of Environment and Water will focus its efforts on improving the quality of the monitoring and information on air, surface and groundwater, soils, forest ecosystems, waste, noise. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will implement geo-defense measures and activities to curb landslides, erosion processes along the Danube coast and the Black Sea coast and prevent accidents and damage. The planned funds in the field of environmental protection for 2017 will finance environmental projects and activities related to the construction of small water supply networks and facilities of local importance for drinking and domestic water supply of the population. It will also provide funding for projects for the construction of waste water treatment plants, sewerage networks and extracting collectors, facilities for the protection of the mermaids and the shores of the derettas from erosion, facilities for regulating the flow of rivers and the creation of water areas of local importance. A significant part of the planned funds will be targeted at projects related to the construction of new or re-cultivation of existing landfills, installations or waste management facilities. Financing of specialised machinery, separation facilities and installations for treatment, processing, separation, recycling or recovery systems for waste is also envisaged. The measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, lv. The Draft Law on the State Budget for 2017, the Ministry of Environment and Water defines revenues of 55 million. BGN, at 48 million lv. for budget 2016, or a significant increase due to the new approach in the accounting of public fees collected. The estimated revenue for 2018 and 2019 is 53,101 million and 54,331 million respectively. The revenue includes expenditure on staff, maintenance and capital expenditure, with the total expenditure set out in the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water for 2017 amounting to 46 million. BGN, at 44 million for 2016 The estimated expenditure of the Ministry of Environment for 2017 is the highest for the policy in the field of environmental protection and use. 787 thousand. lv.; for the policy in the field of the National Environmental Monitoring System and Information Security...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Three hundred and thirty-seven thousand. lv. and for the programme........ 16 923 thousand. lv. More significant costs are to store, strengthen and restore ecosystems, species and their genetic resources. 163 thousand. lv.; integrated water management and water protection 781 thousand. lv.; Environmental Impact Assessment and Management 33,000. lv. and the management of the waste supposed to 2 million. 683 thousand BGN Mrs. Vasileva further pointed out what will be realized with the help of transfers and funds from PUDOS and what funds are envisaged for environmental projects of municipalities. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, President of the Commission, thanked Minister Vasileva for the presentation of the bill and pointed out that the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and the budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2019 in a programming format, focusing mainly on the part concerning the competence of the Commission, the Ministry of Environment and Water and environmental and water policies. After the opening of the debates, the People's Representative Manol Genov asked questions about the expected revenues and their formation, as well as about the Regulation governing this and received detailed answers from the Minister. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, after calling for other speeches and gratitude for the participation of the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water in the meeting, ended the debates and announced the vote on the Draft, after which the Committee on Environment and Water supported the Bill by 7 votes for the Ministry of Environment and Water, 3 votes against and without abstentions and expressed the following opinion: The Commission supports the Draft Law and its indicators regarding environmental protection and water protection and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a first vote Draft on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Her report will introduce you to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Nastimir Ananiev. Next up is the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 15 November 2016, a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; Mr. Valery Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Milcho Lambrev, Director General of the DS National Company The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikola Kolev, Vice-President of the Communications Regulation Commission, and Mr. Konstantin Tilev, member of the Communications Regulation Commission; Mr. Alexander Yolovski, Vice-President of the Ministry of Finance and Trade Organizations. The Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. He stressed that the budget in the part of "Transport' for 2017 is in line with the main assumptions and parameters set out in the draft of the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019. The concept of the Project is built on the following mandatory rules: - the expenditure ceilings approved by the Council of Ministers as a framework for the development of the draft budget for the period 2017 - 2019; - funds from European Union funds, including national co-financing, as well as the absorption of the DIS, including loans with final beneficiary trading companies, are planned under the central budget; - for 2017 and 2018 an increase is envisaged in the amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund "Pensions" by one percentage point each; - the increase of the minimum wage from 1 January 2017 to 460 BGN is also reported, and the amount is reserved for 2018 and 2019; - the maintenance of the health insurance contribution of 8%. Regarding the ideology of the preparation of the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications for 2017, Minister Moskovski focused on the fact that with the latest amendments of the Law on Electronic Governance, the State Agency is being established. In this context, the programming structure for 2017 has been changed, formed by two policies and six programmes, namely: - Transport policy; - communication and information technology policy. Programs: Programme 1 supplier development and maintenance of the transport infrastructure. Programme 2 supplied, transport management, safety, security and security; Program 3 "Search and rescue in water and air transport" Programme 4 "Investigation of accidents in air, water and rail transport'; Programme 5 "Species and Information Technologies Development" Program 6 "Administrative services," medical and psychological expertise. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 400,000. lv. Most of them, about 42%, are generated mainly by state fees collected under Tariff No 5. A substantial share of the fines collected is also about 10%. An essential element of the revenue is the revenues from concessions, with their total volume expected to be almost 25 million. BGN, i.e. 46% of the total planned revenue. The total expenditure on the Ministry's budget for 2017 amounts to 270 million. 668 thousand. 600 BGN, by main directions are distributed as follows: For staff, 27 million. 330,000. 200 leva.• • • • • • • For current maintenance 233 million. Eight hundred and sixty-seven For capital expenditure, 9 million 471 thousand. £400. The following subsidies and capital transfers are included in the Ministry's budget programming format for 2017: "БДДДС "Сиспи". In the proposed budgetary framework of the Ministry of Finance, funds are planned for BDZ in the amount of 227 million. BGN, distributed as follows: - a capital transfer of 35 million. lv. for the supply of wagons; - A subsidy for passenger transports lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - compensation for certain categories of passengers - 17 million lv. DS "National Company" "Railway Infrastructure" $240 million has been secured. BGN, distributed in directions: - a capital transfer of 105 million. lv. for the repair, modernisation and construction of railway infrastructure facilities and - A grant of 135 million. lv. for ongoing maintenance and operation. The capital transfers provided for the NRIC amounted to 105 million. BGN, for ongoing support - 135 million lv. DS "Port Infrastructure" In line with the framework proposed by the Ministry of Finance, a capital transfer of 11 million is envisaged. lv. For the rehabilitation and modernisation of port terminals in 2017 Road transport A total subsidy of 52 million was envisaged. Three hundred thousand. BGN distributed as follows: - a subsidy for intra-urban and long-distance passenger transport in less populated mountain and border areas, amounting to 14 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. and - compensation for free and reduced travel costs for citizens in the country, amounting to 37 million. $800,000. lv. "Български потългарски поти" ЕАД The budgetary framework for 2017 provides for compensation for the Bulgarian Posts at the amount of 38 million EAD. lv. The increase in funds for 2017 is linked to the provision of additional funds of 24 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. for the compensation of the company for its universal postal service for the period 2011-2014 and 13 million 400,000. lv. compensation for this service for 2015 The necessary funds of BDZ Holding EAD for 2017 on the initial draft budget are 560 million. lv. In relation to a notification made to the European Commission on State aid to the BDZ Holding EAD, the amount was specified in the amount of 602 million. BGN, and the funds are necessary for: - Payment of debts to financial institutions, Ministry of Finance, DS NKJI lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Investments in new rolling stock - 210 million lv. The report of the Minister of Transport on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 concerns the problem related to the maintenance of the navigable route along the Danube. In relation to the forthcoming decisions of the Joint Bulgarian-Romanian Commission, the conclusion of a dredging contract in 2017, which is an entirely national commitment, is necessary. In this regard, the need for means to perform drag on the Danube River is the addition of specific critical points based on hydrometeorological expectations in 2017 amounting to 3 million. Nine hundred and £800. The State Communications Policy for the period 2017 - 2019 will focus on the implementation of the following priorities: - maintaining conditions for free and effective competition both in the electronic communications market and in the postal services market as part of the single internal market in the European Union; - development of modern electronic communications and postal infrastructure; - creating conditions for the accelerated construction of high-speed electronic communications networks; - overcoming the lag in the construction and development of electronic communications infrastructure in weakly populated and remote areas; - ensuring the provision of an accessible, reliable and effective universal postal service and its storage in a liberalised postal market; - development and modernisation of national postal networks. The budget of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2017 was presented to the members of the committee by Mr. Nikola Kolev. The revenue provided for the CRC's budget for 2017 amounts to 60 million. The planned capital costs amount to 1 million levs. 660,000. lv. The main priorities and e-government policy were presented by Mr. Alexander Yolovski. Electronic management policy will be implemented through activities and measures aimed at: - development and implementation of a comprehensive state policy in the field of electronic management, electronic certification services and electronic identification, network and information security; - development, implementation, coordination and control of e-management projects, information and communication technologies in administrations; - coordination and control of activities for the implementation of requirements for the internal turnover of electronic documents and for compliance of information systems with interoperability requirements, as well as of activities for the construction, maintenance and use of national infrastructure for spatial information; - development, management, maintenance and operation of the single electronic communications system; - performance of the functions of the National Centre for Incident Action in relation to Information Security; - the construction, maintenance and operation of special purpose communications sites which are part of the integrated communication and information system for the management of the country and the armed forces when declaring an emergency situation. The expenditure provided for the budget of the State Agency for Electronic Governance is estimated at 19 million. Nine hundred and £900. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor from the Committee on Culture and Media, Mr. Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The Committee on Culture and Media at a meeting held on 15 November 2016 discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Finance, Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television and the Council for Electronic Media took part in the discussion. The Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov presented the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The State Budget for 2017 was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Spasova, Head of Department of the Department of State Expenditure and Finance. The project budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2017 provides for its own revenue. 900,000. lv.; cost framework of 157 million 143,000. 900 BGN, of which 151 million are provided for current expenditure. Four hundred and sixty BGN 200, for capital expenditure 5 million is provided. 683 thousand. £700. The expenditure of the Ministry's budget shall be aimed at the implementation of: - policy in the protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage; - policy on the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education; - the budget The estimated amount of the central budget for the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency amounts to 4,836,3 thousand. lv. and is intended to finance activities which the Agency carries out as a national independent information institute of the Republic of Bulgaria. For the Council for Electronic Media, the State Budget Bill for 2017 provides for revenue of 1,200,0 thousand. lv. and costs of 1, 310,3 thousand. lv. The State Budget Bill for 2017 provides an amount for the Bulgarian National Radio at 42 224.4 thousand. lv. The costs of the BNR are to fulfil the main objectives of the public operator for the preparation, establishment and dissemination of national and regional radio programmes. The capital expenditure under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television amounted to 3,900.0 thousand. lv. For the Bulgarian National Television in the State Budget Bill for 2017 the amount is 65 272.2 thousand. lv. Capital expenditure, including under art. 70, para. 4 t. 2 of the Law on Radio and Television amounted to 8 100,0 thousand. lv. The funds for BNT are mainly for the creation and distribution of the national programs BNT 1, BNT 2, BNT HD, BNT The world and regional programs. Paragraph 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the State Budget Bill for 2017 postpones for the next time the operation of § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 4 of the Law on Radio and Television, for 2017 and 2018 respectively. During the discussion, they were concerned about the budget for 2017 MPs Irena Sokolova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Ivan Ivanov, Slavcho Atanasov, Stanislav Stanilov and Petar Kadiev. Snezana Yaneva from the Bulgarian Library-Information Association and Julia Cinzova from the Sofia Library expressed an opinion on the Bill. After the discussion was concluded, a vote with the following results was held: 1. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with included a draft of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 1 and 2:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. Under the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2:....................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Culture and Media proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints "The President of the Commission People's Representative Boyka Marinska. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, no matter how much you have remained in this Chamber! At its regular meeting held on 15 November, 2016, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints examined the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Evgenia Orlova, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditure and Social Policy: Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Evgenia Orlova. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 is accompanied by the updated medium-term budgetary forecast (SBB) for the period 2017. The 2017 budget framework and the forecast parameters by 2019 are based on the updated macroeconomic forecast, underlying assumptions, realistic estimate of revenue, as well as on the reduction of the rate of increase of expenditure by relative retention of national expenditure. The expectations for the real growth of gross domestic product are to keep it at relatively stable levels during the forecast period, while in 2017 it will slow to 2.5% and in the period 2018 - 2019 its gradual acceleration is expected to 2.7%. The medium-term perspective is bound by the priority set for maintaining the stability of public finances and consists of following the targets already set for continuing fiscal consolidation and adherence to consolidation steps of the spring medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2017 - 2019. Taking into account the one-off effect on the 2016 budget balance, this forecast retains the deficit targets for the period 2017 - 2019 at 1,4%, 1,0% and 0,5% of gross domestic product, respectively, as set out in the spring-term budgetary forecast. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, including: According to the State budget, 67,445 million BGN of which: - on the central budget of 11.542 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - included in the budgets of the ministries and departments lv. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above According to the National Fund, 41,048 million lv. to finance projects with beneficiaries of non-profit legal entities under the European Funds. State Fund lv. Under the central budget for 2017, the funds (subsidies and capital transfers) for legal entities with non-profit purpose are provided for and named by Annex 4 to art. 50, para. 1 and Annex 5 to art. 50, para. 2 of the draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and amounted to 12.542 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and Annex No 5 lv.). As a general rule, the amount of subsidies of non-profit legal entities under the central budget for 2017 is maintained compared to 2016, except for the subsidy of the Bulgarian Red Cross, where there is an increase of 900 thousand. lv. The increase is to support the financial provision of activities related to the implementation of the Operational Programme for Food and/or basic material support under the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. BCC is the partner organisation with which the ASP has concluded a contract for the implementation of the operational programme. The expenditure for the implementation of the Programme has been increased due to the extension of the deadline for implementation of the Programme. These costs are related to the rental of warehouses, security and insurance of products, distribution of food to the rightful persons and others. The main group of legal entities in the Annex are the national representative organizations of and for people with disabilities (on the basis of art. 52 of SIHU). This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The Annex also includes the Union of War Veterans, the Bulgarian Red Cross National Council, the Union of People's Chitalishtes, the Rila Holy Monastery, the Troyan Monastery, the Assumption of the Mother of God, the Bachkovski Monastery, the Assumption of the Mother of God, the National Donor Fund of 13 centuries Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization, the Regional Centre for the Conservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, the Union of Thracian Companies and the Macedonian Scientific Institute. The funding of the organizations of the Annex shall be carried out in accordance with the provision of art. 4 of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, under conditions and by order laid down in the relevant special laws. The funds provided for shall be intended to support and finance the implementation of the relevant activities and policies. The State Budget Bill for 2017 spoke the MPs Boyka Marinska, Menda Stoyanova, who expressed their views on the list under Annex No 4, concerning subsidies and other current transfers for non-profit legal entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2017. According to them, the more precise criteria and justifications for inclusion in the list will be possible in 2018, when the amendments to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities enter into force. After the debate, the opinions and opinions expressed by the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints with 8 votes for the Bulgarian Republic of 2017 without the opposition and 1 vote, the abstention committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria in the first vote, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Following is a report from the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. The People's Representative Yevgeny Stoev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivaylo Tanev, Chief Expert at the Department of State Expenditures and Mrs. Maya Manolova Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Mrs. Tsvetanka Miteva Chief Accountant of the Institution; Mrs. Ana Djumalieva Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and Mr. Baki Huseinov Vice-President; Mrs. Petya Parvanova Chairman of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, Mrs. Plamen Tsvetanov Director of the Department of Financial and Accounting Activities. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Tanev. Of the institutions represented, the budget of which is examined in the committee, only two are the authorising officers of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. As regards the secondary authorising officers with a budget, it has been noted that the set parameters are not definitive and a change of their budgets is possible after the assessment of their principals. For the institution Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is provided a budget of BGN 2 950 000. Mrs. Maya Manolova noted that in the last one year the complaints and signals received by citizens are over 10,000 pieces against 5 492 in the previous year and this requires a corresponding capacity and resource. For the Ombudsman's function as a National Preventive Mechanism in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for the Ombudsman's obligations related to the amendments to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, it is necessary to provide sufficient resources to human and financial. The Committee on the Rights of the Child to the United Nations recommends providing sufficient technical, human and financial resources to support the institution's work in promoting and guaranteeing children's rights. The Ombudsman said he supports the Bill to the State Budget for 2017, noting that in the coming years a human resource with high professionalism, experience and responsibility will be needed to protect human rights and, in particular, the child, with adequate financial security. For the Commission for Protection against Discrimination the estimated costs amount to BGN 2,500 000. Ms. Ana Dzhumalieva thanked for the increase in the budget, albeit with little, but said that the funds invested in the 2017 budget were not enough to meet the Commission's commitments. The Commission as a national human rights authority is obliged to open and manage regional offices in all district centres of the country. More 8 regional offices are to be opened for the operation of which additional funds are needed for the Fund, which are needed for the recruitment of employees, funds for repair, equipment and maintenance of the work premises. Ms. Dzhumalieva said that a budget of 3 million is needed for the normal activity of the committee in charge of it. lv. The subsidy granted for faiths registered under the Religious Law amounts to 5 million. lv. With 500,000 leva. More than Budget 2016 For the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad are divided 1 350 000 BGN, for repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the country - BGN 2 410 000.; for repair and construction of prayer homes of the Muslim religion in the Republic of Bulgaria - BGN 360 000; for repair and construction of prayer homes of the Catholic Church in the Republic of Bulgaria; to repair synagogues and support the religious community of Jews in the Republic of Bulgaria..................................................................................For the repair and construction of temples of the Armenian Apostolic Orthodox Church...................................................................................; for repair and construction of prayer homes of other registered religions in the Republic of Bulgaria - BGN 80 000; for repair of religious buildings of national importance - 450 000 BGN and others. Mr. Emil Velinov thanked for the increased budget of the Directorate and said that he supported a budget 2017, in the part of "Religions" and believes that the funds allocated are sufficient. The State Agency for Refugees under the Council of Ministers has planned the budget for 2017 at the amount of 8 million. lv. Ms. Petya Parvanova said that for the overall support of the Agency and providing the necessary conditions for reception, accommodation and examination of the applications of persons seeking protection, according to estimated data, BGN 23 487 700 are needed. for 2017. The funds provided for in the Bill are based on securing the necessary activities at the expense of state budget funds. She said that the Agency she led was provided as a joint manager in the Grantovo agreement "Strengthening the national capacity of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of asylum and migration" under the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, providing funding of BGN 9 550 563. for the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 After the discussion and opinions on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 9 votes................................................................................................................. and 2 votes..............................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u187	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Following is a report by the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. The Commission's report will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its regular meeting held on 15 November 2016 examined on the first vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by the Commission for the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, interim acting President and Mrs. Diana Kunzova, Director of the Financial and Administrative Services Directorate, Mrs. Plamen Georgiev, Chairman, Mrs. Ivo Ivanov, Vice-President, Mrs. Antoaneta Tsonkova, Member, and Mrs. Stoyanka Nikolakova, Member. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission has parliamentary control over the activities of these committees and, accordingly, the MPs have taken into account the parameters laid down for them in the State Budget Bill. During the debates, Mr. Nikolay Nikolov was heard by the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest, which gave an opinion that the envisaged budget of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN for 2017 is fully sufficient for the functioning of the normal activity of its portfolio Commission. Mr. Plamen Georgiev from the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property also assessed the planned budget of 6 million. 162 thousand. BGN is sufficient for the work of the Commission led by him. He noted that if this proposal was adopted by the National Assembly, these funds would further help the Commission in its work. This budget will allow to fill in the unoccupied number of inspectors, which will affect the scope and quality of the checks. According to the bill the MPs Atanas Zafirov, Georgi Kovachev and Ivan Slavov Ivanov were involved. After the subsequent debates between the MPs and the vote held, the result by parliamentary groups is: 2 votes for the representatives of GERB; 2 votes against the representatives of BSP and DPS; 5 votes abstentioned by the representatives of PF, ABB, RB and BDZ-NS. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 31 October. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u189	Thank you. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. He will introduce us to the people representative Vladimir Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its extraordinary meeting held on 16 November 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Manuela Milosheva, Director of the National Fund Directorate at the Ministry of Finance took part in the Commission meeting. I. The State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, which is accompanied by the updated medium-term budgetary forecast (SBB) for the period 2017 - 2019 provides for the following parameters under the consolidated fiscal programme (SFP): - Revenue, aid and donations: 35 439.6 million. lv. (38.4% of gross domestic product (GDP); - Costs (including This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. (39.8% of GDP); - Deficit: 1, 330 million. lv. (1.4 per cent of GDP). The projected GDP at current prices for 2017 amounts to 92 395 million BGN, with real economic growth expected to be 2.5%. In 2017, a new government debt of 1.2 billion is planned. BGN, of which 0,8 billion lv. for the refinancing of internal debt dues and 0,4 billion lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. As a result of fiscal consolidation achieved, the level of public debt is stabilised at a low and sustainable level, far below the average level for the euro area and the EU, with no provision for issuing new external debt within the framework of the Global Medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets for 2017. Thus, the planned values of both the deficit and government debt remain within the reference values of the EU Stability and Growth Pact, which amount to 3% of GDP for the deficit and 60% of GDP for the debt, respectively. It should be noted that, in accordance with the European Seeder, the Council of Ministers continues to submit the draft State Budget Act to the National Assembly by the end of October. This, in turn, creates the necessary prerequisites for synchronising the national budgetary procedure with the European framework for enhanced prior coordination of economic policies. In view of the specific nature of its activities, KEVKEF examines the parameters of the State Budget project for 2017, concerning the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget for 2017, as well as the planned revenue and expenditure under EU funds. II. Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union budget for 2017 Our country's main financial commitment to membership in the European Union is expressed in the national contribution to the EU budget. For 2017, it is planned to be 992.6 million. lv. This forecast was prepared on the basis of the new Council Decision on the system of own resources of the EU (2014/335/EU, Euratom) which entered into force after it was adopted by all Member States. With regard to the contribution, the following circumstances should also be taken into account: - In the process of implementation of the EU budget, it is possible to impose a change in the amount of Bulgaria's contribution due to the impact of a number of factors: additional or unforeseen needs for EU budget funds in the implementation of the spending policies; a change in the amount of other EU revenue; a change in the amount of the traditional own resources collected from all Member States; periodic updates of the data for previous years on the harmonised VAT base and on the gross national income of the Member States in order to achieve greater accuracy in the calculation of their contributions, etc. - When preparing this forecast, it is assumed that the United Kingdom will be a full member of the EU throughout the period 2017-2019 and that there will be no changes in the spending or revenue side of the EU budget following a referendum held on 23 June 2016. At present, there is no clear information as to when an application for exit will be submitted and what the results of the agreement to be concluded under Article 50 of the EU Treaty will be. In general, when leaving the United Kingdom, the amount equivalent to the country's net contribution (the difference between the funds received from the EU budget and its contribution) should be ensured by increasing the contributions of the other Member States to Bulgaria that would mean an increase in the contribution by about 6,8% (in the case of relevant assumptions). III. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. It is envisaged that the aggregate amount of revenue, aid and donations under EU funds for 2017 will be 2,612,7 million. lv. or 2.8% of the projected GDP. These include accounts for EU funds of the National Fund, the State Fund (SFF) and other international programmes and contracts to which the regime of EU funds accounts applies. The estimated total costs for 2017 under European programmes and projects amounted to 4 422.8 million. lv. or 4,8% of GDP, including 3 153,9 million lv. European funds (3.4% of GDP) and 1 2699 million lv. National co-financing (1.4% of GDP). National Fund The planning for 2017 takes into account the new rules for the programming period 2014-2020, the delayed approval of the operational programmes by the Commission, the preparation phase of each of them, the characteristics of the supported sectors, as well as the nature and deadlines for the implementation of the individual projects. In this regard, the total revenue of the National Fund for EU Funds for 2017 is estimated to amount to 1,701.7 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. (3.5 per cent of GDP). The planning of the expenditure part also takes into account the need for the ongoing provision of national means of payment in relation to the rules laid down for the reimbursement of 90% of the certified expenditure prior to the annual clearance of the accounts with the Commission for 2017 on the basis of the annual accounts submitted by the Member States. At the same time, the estimated revenue has been calculated taking into account the following features: - 90% of the cost of operational programmes corresponding to European co-financing carried out in the last two months of the previous year; - 90% of the cost of operational programmes corresponding to European co-financing carried out during the first ten months of this year; - up to 10% of the amount of certified expenditure in the previous accounting year expected to be reimbursed by the Commission in the annual clearance of accounts; - the pre-financing (originally and annually), which Bulgaria is expected to receive. According to the regulations adopted at the end of 2013, the Commission will transfer annual pre-financing to the Member States in the period 2016 - 2022 and for 2017 it will amount to 2,625%, for 2018. For the period 2019 to 2022, 3% of the European component in the budgets of the operational programmes without the implementation reserve shall be taken into account for the period from 2019 to 2022. The same shall be presented on an annual basis and deducted in the clearance of accounts for the previous accounting year. State Fund.......................................................................................... The total revenue of the European Union funds account for 2017 is estimated to amount to 513.5 million. lv. (0,6% of GDP) and the cost of expenditures of 669,1 million lv. (0,7% of GDP). Common agricultural policy (CAP) Under the first pillar of the CAP, funds will be paid to support farmers under production-linked direct payments and market support schemes. The single area payment scheme in 2017 provides for 1 553.5 million to be used. lv. Direct payments to farmers. The total budget for the financing of market measures for 2017 amounts to EUR 131,3 million. BGN, of which 86.5 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. represent national co-financing. Under the second pillar of the CAP, funds for rural development will be paid. The funds our country plans to absorb under EU programmes and pay for agricultural policy for 2017 are 775.6 million. BGN, of which 623.2 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. Common fisheries policy The funds that our country plans to absorb under EU programmes and pay for the 2017 Common Fisheries Policy are 34.8 million. BGN 26.1 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. national co-financing and advance payments. Other international programmes and contracts subject to the European Union fund accounts regime Revenue, expenditure and the corresponding co-financing from the State budget under other European Union funds accounts and other international programmes and contracts to which the European Union funds accounts regime applies, including: the Internal Security Fund, the External Borders Fund, the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme, the National Trusted Ecofund, the For 2017, the planned revenue amounts to 397.5 million. BGN and the costs of 541.6 million. lv. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u192	Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; a representative of the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Nadezhda Genova, Director of the Department of State Expenditures; Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency for Security of Information; Mr. Georgi Gatev, Vice-President of the National Office for Control of Special Intelligence; Mrs. Yosifova Deputy Minister of Defence; Brigadier General Daskalov, Chair of the Office Mrs. Genova, Director of the Department of State Expenditure at the Ministry of Finance, presented the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 marking its main indicators. Point out that the increase in the security services budget is only an expression of an increased amount of compulsory social security contributions. Representatives of the institutions concerned presented the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and the updated budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, in the part of the budget of the security activities. The representatives of the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency of Intelligence, the Office of Military Information and the National Security Service expressed an opinion that the values provided for expenditure do not really meet the needs of the institutions. They pointed out that the budget has not been increased in the previous years and this leads to serious problems in the work and organisation of their activities, in view of the country's security environment and the challenges it is facing. Examples of budget values have been given to similar institutions from European countries, which have been increased in times for 2017. During the debates, regarding the bill took the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Metodi Andreev, Atanas Atanasov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Members of the National Assembly disagreed with the amount of funds set out in the budget of the Security Services for 2017 and shared their views to submit proposals to increase them between the first and second votes of the State Budget Bill and to this end there should be a way to redirect financial resources from the budget to these services. The possibility of targeted funding of the intelligence community as part of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers was also discussed. After the discussion, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 7 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. The Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. There is a word from the National Representative Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. The bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 in its part for the energy sector was presented by the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The revenue provided for in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 amounts to 255 million. In the case of a specified plan for 2016 for the same amount, BGN 244 million. 263.3 thousand. lv. In order to implement the Sustainable and competitive Energy Development Policy, the 2017 draft budget provides for expenditure of 115 million. 302.3 thousand. BGN, in the case of approved by the Law on the State Budget for 2016 111 million. 832,3 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. $37.8,000. BGN, in the case of approved by the Law on the State Budget for 2016 3 million. Seven-seven-seven-seven-three thousand. In conclusion, Mrs. Petkova said that the defined framework allows the Ministry of Energy to perform its functions fully. Mr. Ivan Ivanov presented the budget of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission adopted by Decision on the issue. 1 of Protocol No 180 of 2 September 2016 explaining the way in which the Commission is financed and the implementation of the legal provisions. Mr. Lachezar Kostov presented the budget of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, informing that he defined as progress the increase of 724 thousand. lv. in the statement of expenditure and a recommendation for the award of additional ones. After the presentation, a vote was held which ended with the following results: the vote was held:............. 8 votes............................................................ 6 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion, the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. The latest report belongs to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. It will be introduced to you by the people's representative Desislava Gusheva. You have the floor, Mrs. Gusheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad on a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. At its meeting held on 16 November 2016, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 in its part on Policies towards Bulgarians Abroad. The meeting was attended: by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Hristo Angelichin Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ladinka Mihaylova, Director of the Directorate of the Ministry of Education and Science; by the Ministry of Education and Science: Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Secretary General, Mrs. Natalia Mihalevska, Head of the Department of the Department of Administration, Control and Inspection and Finance; by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Marinela Davidova, Senior Expert in the Directorate of State Expenditures; by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad: Mr. Dimitar Vladimirov The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad examined the draft budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Education and Science as part of their policies towards Bulgarians abroad, as well as the draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad. The draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was presented by Mr. Hristo Angelichin, who said that in the revenue section the budget is 62 000 000 BGN and in the expenditure section of policy and budgetary programmes the amount is 122 893 000 BGN and after consultations with the Ministry of Finance are additionally provided BGN 5 757 000. For policy in the field of development of an effective diplomatic service are provided BGN 1 030 940 500, under the program "Management of the overseas representations and support of Bulgarian citizens abroad" the funds provided are BGN 83 126 600. The draft budget of the Ministry of Education and Science under the program "Education of Bulgarians abroad" was presented by Mr. Valchev, who stressed that for 2017 a budget was estimated for the Bulgarian communities abroad of BGN 11 234 400, compared to 2016, an increase of BGN 1 672 400 is envisaged for 2017. specifically for Bulgarians abroad. Mr. Valchev explained that the funds are allocated to the National Program "Born language and culture abroad" which provides 119 schools in different countries...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................; for Order No 334 of 2011, which provides 175 Sunday schools abroad - BGN 8 000 000, and these funds were increased by BGN 1 500 000. Compared to 2016; for PMS No 103/93 of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of educational policy among Bulgarians abroad.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................; for the Tarakli University of the Republic of Moldova - 350 000 BGN The draft budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, defined as the program "Other activities and services" within the framework of the general budget of the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Vladimirov. The funds allocated to the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad for 2017 are the same as in budget 2016. It's 943 600 leva. Mr. Vladimirov expressed his opinion that in the perspective the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad will face serious difficulties in fulfilling its functions and tasks, given the constantly increasing activity related to the certification of Bulgarian origin. He explained that additional 10 positions are needed to create a new Directorate of Bulgarian Origin. Mr. Vladimirov pointed out that it is imperative to provide an opportunity for financing of Bulgarian organizations abroad carrying out activities related to the preservation of Bulgarian culture. From the Ministry of Finance Mrs. Davidova summarized the information about the draft budget in its part concerning the policy towards Bulgarians abroad. During the discussion the MPs once again discussed the proposal for the establishment of a fund to the Council of Ministers for funding of Bulgarian organizations abroad, and also the members of the Commission to propose between first and second reading setting of funds in the budget of the Council of Ministers to support the organizations of Bulgarians abroad. The chairman of the committee discussed the possibility of providing funds for the purchase from the Bulgarian state of the building, which houses the Vseukrain Center for Culture and another building for a Bulgarian school in the city. Odessa, as well as a building for the Bulgarian community in the town of Odessa. Athens, motivated by the fact that these are issues of great importance for the preservation and preservation of Bulgarian culture abroad. After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016.........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-17.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gusheva. By doing so, we have exhausted the scheduled time for today's plenary session. We've run out of agenda for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the first vote of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016. Beginning of the plenary session 9:00 p.m. There is a debate and a vote on the bill. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
