ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, according to our weekly programme, today we begin with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 10 March 2016 with importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs; Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs; Miho Mihov and a group of MPs; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs two laws; Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs; Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Due to the extremely high public interest in this Election Code and the fact that it affects a number of rights [[SIGHS AND CALLS FROM GERB]] We also see the obligations of the Bulgarian citizens, as some of the colleagues understand, I am making a procedural proposal that the debates and the voting on this point under the Election Code be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 161 MPs: for 67, against 25, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Name of the legal act: The Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 149 MPs: 144, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u6	Paragraph 1? a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: Paragraph 1 shall be repealed. Paragraphs §2, §3, §4, §5, §6 shall be renumbered as §1, §2, §3, §4, §5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov § 1 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following 1. in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The vote is mandatory, carried out personally by the voter and represents the fulfilment of his civic debt. 2. the creation of para. 3: A single person may not participate in more than one quality in one kind of choice, a candidate, an observer, an advocate, a party representative, a coalition or a committee of call, a member of a electoral committee, an interviewer, a chaperone and the like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u7	Colleagues, speeches? Mr. Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first paragraph puts some of the most important and controversial issues in the amendments to the Election Code. For the first time after the adoption and entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the expression "the choice of citizens is their right" changes into an obligation. I would like to recall our position when the same topic was discussed months ago in connection with the proposals for a referendum. Then we supported the possibility to hold a referendum on the issue: "Is there a mandatory vote to be put in place?" "And if this is an issue which should be decided by the Bulgarian citizens themselves"....................................................................................... and if this is an issue should be deal with this issue............................................................................................................................................ However, putting the National Assembly above the Bulgarian citizens is unacceptable! We strongly object to the National Assembly turning the right of choice into an obligation for Bulgarian citizens. I see only one reason in this change. Since a referendum is about to take place with a number of issues, one of which is whether to introduce a mandatory vote, Parliament is thus not so much in a clear position about the mandatory vote, but is trying to make sense of the citizens' choice, their ruling in the referendum. Because what is the point of this change if we assume that the referendum rejects the mandatory vote? Then will the parliament meet again before the first upcoming elections to revise the Law?! So, both essentially and in the light of the consistency of the actions, this paragraph must be rejected if the National Assembly really is perceived as a representative institution and not simply as a political centre where different conjuncture decisions must be proposed. This is precisely the big problem: is it even acceptable according to the Bulgarian Constitution to turn the vote into an obligation? This is a conceptual dispute that I don't want to go into right now. Even in my opinion, there is also a trap here, where the majority says: "Let us accept the mandatory vote, then perhaps the opposition will gather voices to be attacked in the Constitutional Court, and if there is a drop, we wash our hands, we have made this attempt and then many other political events that I am talking about will have passed. However, I believe that we will not be buying this fishing rod, and for now I think that we should not rely on our initiative for action before the Constitutional Court in order to be able to show all the consequences of the decision being taken. Therefore, I pay attention, the question deserves a very serious discussion and I express the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, of our parliamentary group, that we are ready for this issue to be put before the Bulgarian citizens. If the majority of them feel that they must commit themselves and participate in the elections, whatever they may be, we will comply with that will. It may, under certain circumstances, prove to be a correction of the current political shortcomings. But you're making another attempt, and I'm linking it to what's about to be discussed. Once a mandatory vote is introduced and those who have not exercised the right to be removed from the electoral lists. In this way you are really seeking to reduce the number of voters, because those who have once left the electoral lists are too unlikely to be actively involved by submitting a special application. And reducing the number of voters, along with the technique of voting against everyone, is an attempt, instead of expressing the vote of citizens in a constructive way, to increase the votes that are subject to redistribution and thus, by reducing the votes for the main parties, to redistribute more votes. On this issue, I too will have the opportunity to speak and explain what the techniques of this fraud are, to call it, with the inclusion of such a column, which should mislead citizens that they express some will and vote against everyone, to give away the vote of a particular party. I therefore call for this text to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u9	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Velizar Enchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] You want a statement. A line to Mr. Stoilov? I won't. Mr. Velizar Enchev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I fully join the opinion of the BSP Parliamentary Group, expressed by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: "Eee! "]] Today, the importers of this amendment, which passed in the Parliamentary Commission, trample, first, the Bulgarian Constitution, and secondly, the opinion of the Bulgarian citizens - the Bulgarian Constitution, where it is clearly written that the vote is a right and not an obligation. And the opinion of the Bulgarian citizens should be heard after 500 000 Bulgarian citizens - more than half a million Bulgarian citizens in the referendum of Slavi Trifonov - expressed their desire to say their opinion on this and on many other issues. We may not accept many of the questions in the referendum, but first let us hear the opinion of the Bulgarian citizens in this referendum and then make such a radical, not to say.. a revolutionary change, in the Bulgarian Constitution, making a right into an obligation. When I talk about the obligation, let's see which countries around the world have a mandatory vote in most countries, or in some of the countries in Latin America, where until recently there have been cruel dictatorships, in Asia and in two European countries. Moreover, in Greece, honourable Members, the mandatory vote is not in such a conservative form, it does not imply sanctions, but here, if you remember, just a week ago the importer of this amendment... not to mention his name, suggested even imposing a fine of 50 BGN. for non-vote, if the vote is mandatory. Now the most important thing in my line, since I've been doing this for the second year. I find it strange that during the debate on the mandatory vote in the Parliamentary Commission, not a single Member of the Parliament, did not ask the opposition the following question: but what is the link between the mandatory vote and the reduction of the state subsidy? It's a huge connection. In the mandatory vote, in the current Law on Political Parties, which states that for a vote in parliamentary elections of a party that received more than 1% in the parliamentary elections, 11 BGN is due. for a given voice. Why does none of you not raise the question that if we are going to introduce the mandatory vote, in parallel, we need to amend the Law on Political Parties and radically reduce the state subsidy for the parties who received more than 1% in parliamentary elections by 11 BGN, as I suggest already the second or third time Five leva.? This is rejected by this tribune. Or as Slavi Trifonov's importers suggest for the referendum, to become BGN 1 In fact, if there is a mandatory vote, I am changing my opinion and I will introduce a new Bill on the state subsidy, which will really become BGN 1. for a vote of a party that received more than 1% in parliamentary elections. Otherwise, if this Law on Political Parties remains, then mandatory voting parties that are in parliament, parties that are not in parliament, but get more than 1%, will become party banks, savings banks. Is that what you want?! That is, the State subsidy will essentially double in the mandatory vote. Therefore, I believe that political morality, respect for the Bulgarian Constitution and above all compliance with the vote of the Bulgarian citizens in the referendum of Slavi Trifonov imposes this proposal to issue a mandatory vote. Let the Bulgarian people in the referendum decide whether or not there should be a mandatory vote and then rule, as Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said very well, in a parliamentary hall, and then, of course, we discuss all these issues in the relevant parliamentary Commission, but not in the middle-night meetings, knowingly in the middle of the night, so that the Bulgarian media cannot attend. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Do you have any lines? No. To speak, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Citizens who are 18 years old, with the exception of those who are incarcerated and who are suffering imprisonment, have the right to repeat, have the right to elect state and local authorities and to participate in questions to the people. This shall be read in Art. 42, para. 1 of our Constitution. You are now trying to convert a right into an obligation with clear consequences that this will lead to the withdrawal of fundamental rights, because this is also found in Chapter 2 of our Constitution. "Main Rights of Bulgarian Citizens" - one of which is the right to choose the authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria who will manage them. In parallel to this obligation, you introduce a little further down, because the texts are related to the administrative obstacles for the Bulgarian citizen to be able to exercise this right, namely, if he has not voted in previous elections for any disrespectful reasons, whatever that means, he will be written off the electoral lists. He may continue to exercise his right to vote if he eventually submits a notarized application for which he must go to pay. On the one hand, you create obligations for the Bulgarian citizens, on the other hand, create an administrative obstacle to this right. Moreover, with this Bill you are trying to introduce the electronic remote voting. Then, when the Bulgarian citizen has an obligation to vote and can do it electronically, remotely, outside the sectary electoral commission, outside a controlled environment, somewhere from a room, from a computer, this citizen will be obliged to exercise his right to vote, in the way that pressure is put on his free will. Because no computer specialist can guarantee that there will be no repression or pressure on the free will of the citizen. On the contrary, it will stimulate the buying and trading of votes. Third, you're trying to create an area abroad without a clear idea...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u13	Mr. Popov, § 1 we are discussing, not the Bill at first reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u14	On the contrary, there is a link between compulsory voting and an area abroad. First of all, no one knows how many mandates will be in the region abroad. And no one can determine it. Looking at the ceiling, you determine how many terms will be on the principle of error. Secondly, those people who are Bulgarian citizens and live abroad will have no obligation to go to vote, but for those who are on our territory, on the contrary, there will be such an obligation. Dear Members of the National Assembly, selective law is equal and it is equal for every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of where he is located in or outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Those who are abroad cannot be equal to those who live here in Bulgaria. You don't have to turn one right into an obligation. At least I think it's unconstitutional. But Mr. Yanaki Stoilov is right, let's not get into this subject, there is a Constitutional Court that will eventually rule. However, the consequences of introducing such an obligation will not be good for the development of our democracy, the rule of law, pluralism. There are indeed several European countries, including neighbouring Greece, introduced such an obligation, but there you see the results. The common European principle is that this is a right, not an obligation. That's why I also join the app, expressed by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov § 1 to drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? First Mr. Philip Popov for speech, after him Mr. Dimitar Lazarov and after him Mr. Georgi Bozinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have more than 200 paragraphs to consider and indeed, in order to be constructive and be able to do the work, I suggest that, especially on the left, stop populism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u17	What's populism?! We're discussing serious matters!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u18	It was nice for all these things to have colleagues on the left of the Legal Commission. We had a few extraordinary meetings, including late nights, to say them there and to have a debate on the substance. They were hardly present, in the vast majority absent from the meeting, quite silent. Now they come and they're super active, and they tell us how we almost don't understand...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u19	They have that right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u20	...even though so much effort and work has been thrown. I did my work specifically on this paragraph, and I looked at what they were saying about a year ago when we discussed the so-called President's referendum. I urge you to take a look, you yourself on the left look, to see how you voted when the issue proposed by the President was dismissed to hear the will of the Bulgarian citizens whether there should be a mandatory vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u21	I said we voted!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u22	...and a large part of you, a colleague on the left, voted against. Here, indeed, Mr. Stoilov said in his statement that he would feel more comfortable if there were a ruling of the Constitutional Court, which was not, but in general, the tuning at the time on the left was against it and this referendum was not accepted. If it had been held then, things would probably be much clearer now. But to get back to the paragraph, fellow Members, I would like to point out to you that if such an obligation is really created for Bulgarian citizens, it is very important what the sanctions will be, first of all, and whether there will be any sanctions at all, because we in the Reformation bloc categorically said that there should be no sanctions. We have made our own proposals, not to have sanctions for the non-voting, but rather to seek the opportunity to encourage the active citizens to vote. These people who are engaged, who work, who raise their families and who still find time in their busy daily lives, because most in private sectors and on Saturdays and Sundays work and still go and vote. So let's really think about incentives for these people, and it's about serious incentives, so they can be motivated and really define the future of our country and not be excluded from the political process and almost marginal groups with a controlled vote to determine who enters this parliament and who enters the municipal councils and how the state is managed. So first and foremost, I would like to draw attention to you and call on you to support our proposals for incentives. They're generally accepted, but, accordingly, when we get there, I'll pay attention to the difference... Secondly, it is very important for us to have a real choice, for people to really be able to choose from quality candidates, to have competition, not to have party-ordered lists and not to work the preference so that they can be rearranged, and, on the contrary, to have a real opportunity to compete within the party lists proposed by parties, and then people to feel motivated and to choose the best candidate they like best. Because, colleagues on the left, you've suggested that the offer be dropped. Well, when we get there, we'll talk about it. This is obviously not possible for choice and is not an option for competition. And another important thing should be noted, because it is really important to have quality choices and competition, it is really important not to harass people, not to be sanctioned, but to create incentives and it is really important to consider this measure, if we are looking for it as a healing measure for our electoral system, to really work, but not to remain some kind of sensuous character or something wishful, which does not create any action in the future or only create problems or additional attitudes against public-political life, at all, against the way in which politics are being made in our country. So I really call on you to be constructive, not to be specific, not to be populist, but to remember what we have said there is - not a year earlier on this subject and indeed who has supported it then, and who has not supported hearing the voice of the people in the referendum and of the issue that has fallen, and on the basis of which we are really making the decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. My fellow Members, I call on you to concentrate on the texts that are being discussed. Indeed, this text is fundamental, and so I leave a little bit more to make references, but please, second reading is, you all know, to concentrate on specific texts. Is there a line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Slavov, obviously when you lack clear arguments, you are serving and handling, and you are making some suggestions for populism. This is an extremely important topic and it is not populism to talk about it. In terms of the referendum. Mr. Slavov, I would remind you that at that time we proposed that there should be such a question for the mandatory vote, but should it be backed up with sanctions? You then rejected it as an offer. Let me remind you of that. Regarding the mandatory vote, what you said. It is a problem for the subjects, the political parties to force the voter, the people to go and vote, to support one party or another, one candidate or another. You don't have to force them to go and vote. With regard to the preference, we have not proposed to drop the preference, but you should keep in mind that the preference should not distort political representation. I am giving you these lines and I ask you not to fall into an extreme populism with regard to compulsory voting and preferences, because this is an extremely important issue concerning the future of our Republic and the governance of Bulgaria at all. We cannot, with one consensus, clap our hands, embrace ourselves, accept such an extremely important issue. And whether we have given our arguments to the Legal Commission or not, we are giving them to ourselves here in plenary, because in the Legal Committee there was obviously an agreement regarding all the proposals that we made, most of which were such texts to drop out, and you voted without even hearing our motives. Well, there's no point in expressing our motives, since there's no sensitivity. I hope, at least here in plenary, that there will be such a hearing, and that is why we will continue to express our motives here so that Bulgarian citizens can hear them and assess how much your proposals meet our understanding of democracy and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u26	Mr. Slavov, a very short line to you: however undemocratic is the mandatory vote and, more precisely, the sanctions, if you do not vote in a mandatory vote, it is even more comical to give material incentives to vote. After all, the elections, Mr. Slavov, are not a raffle and if we rely on financial or other incentives to get Bulgarian citizens to vote, the situation in Bulgaria is really very difficult. Therefore, it seems to me that your proposal for stimuli for voting is comical and you should withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u27	The third line is Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, and your statement is logically contradictory. I'll tell you that's because you're struggling on black to say white, the right to define it as an obligation. Either this is an obligation, as you claim, or then there is no need for incentives. Let's encourage voters to do something that is generally not bad and should stimulate turnout, but if we go this way, there is no way to define it as an obligation. Let us define only incentives for the vote, but for the obligation to drop. Moreover, it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov. I suggest you on the issue of incentives and preferences to make a duplicate when we get to this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u30	Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Shortly, colleagues, in each of the lines. What I heard from my colleague Popov, I understood it as a confession that he really was not at the Legal Commission. That's what it sounded like to me. It sounded like a kind of confession. What my colleague Enchev said about me proves that he has not made enough effort to read carefully what we are voting on today. Because from the Reformation Bloc, we don't offer any tombolas. On the contrary, we have offered incentives precisely for working people to be able to benefit from a tax discount, to benefit from a tax that they would owe on their income for the year in question. This has nothing to do with the raffle. This is a measure right to the working people a discount from the tax they would owe. It's not a gift, or it's not some reward, and it's even less a raffle. So, colleagues, it is nice, before we speak, to read carefully the texts that the Legal Committee has reached after a lot of work and propose them to the plenary. Indeed, there are also problematic texts, but there are also a number of ones on which I think we have found a reasonable compromise and which should be supported. Finally, what my colleague Georgiev paid attention to is that for the exercise of this obligation, if objective opportunities are really created, it is easy to exercise, without any difficulty for the people, what we in the Reformation bloc see, for example, in the remote electronic vote and what will be introduced further, albeit initially experimentally, indeed then this would not be a problem for anyone and very easily could be exercised. And the importance of voting is hardly necessary to convince you. I hope you all understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The word is the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are still at the first paragraph, which concerns mandatory voting. It's normal to have statements from the left and from the right. I want to talk about the political sclerosis associated with the arguments that, in the compulsory vote, Bulgarians abroad had no equal rights, as those in remote places are supposed to have no opportunity to vote, so they have no equal rights with those Bulgarians who vote in Bulgaria. That's one of the arguments. Well, put him in the Constitutional Court. C 2009 for the amendments you adopted and introduced a majority vote, there was a constitutional case. Did they have the same equal rights to vote majority, as they voted in Bulgaria, 29-31 majority electoral districts? Do they now have the same equal rights when they can't vote for the list? Under the current Code of Conduct, Bulgarians who vote in Bulgaria are voting for a certain list in the electoral region. Do Bulgarians abroad now have these equal rights that they can exercise preferential vote? Of course they can exercise a preferential vote because they don't vote for the list. Two thousand and nine years, the Constitutional Court, then repealing the Law adopted by you to raise the threshold for coalitions, ruled on whether or not the rights in connection with the majority vote were violated. This is called political sclerosis under the still-acting Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u33	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lazarov, how will you determine the mandates abroad? On what principle? Do you know how many voters are currently abroad, how many will be in half a year, how many will be in a year? Where are you going to get these terms? [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] How will you define the mandates and how do you define them by this Election Code? Based on: sample-wrong viewing in the ceiling, we define four mandates, nine mandates, seven mandates. And who will represent these MPs with the list from abroad? Doesn't every member of the National Assembly elected under this Election Code represent all Bulgarian citizens? Those who are chosen abroad must only sit in the air. They can't go around their election district. And what will be their election district? * Washington, Brussels, Warsaw, Vienna who? Ankara?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u35	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u36	I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u37	Is there a second line for Mr. Lazarov? A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u38	Madam President, in my speech, I have not spoken of a electoral area or how mandates are defined. There's time, and this moment will come, and you'll talk there. But surprisingly, in the presence of political sclerosis, you do not forget the supporting points you speak every minute. We haven't made it to an elected area overseas. There is a methodology how they will be determined and how they will not be determined. We talked about this. You raised the question in an elected area abroad that they did not have equal rights and that there was no equal rights in the compulsory vote, as you say, the Constitution required for those who voted abroad in view of the mandatory vote. We're still at paragraph one. Please. I understand your problem, but these support points don't seem to catch dikish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u39	The word is Mr. Kazak. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Colleagues, let's alternate the parliamentary groups. You are the third representative of your parliamentary group, the rest have not yet stated one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that everyone who speaks on the subject of compulsory voting should first declare whether he supports the issue contained in the draft referendum of Slavi Trifonov, whether he supports Question No 3 in the project: "Do you support the introduction of mandatory voting? "The person who supports this issue should remain must vote against the introduction of mandatory voting in the Election Code now because you cannot both support the idea of asking Bulgarian citizens whether to convert a constitutional right into an obligation and, on the other hand, to prejudge this issue by voting on this amendment in the Election Code. We just need to be consistent or wish to hear whether the Bulgarian citizens agree to be obliged to exercise their constitutional right to vote, or we do not agree to hear the Bulgarian citizens and we are ready to resolve this issue in the Election Code instead. Now get to the point. A lasting and consistent position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from the very idea of transforming a constitutional right into an obligation, is that this is unacceptable, unconstitutional. Moreover, the transformation of one of the main constitutional rights guaranteed in Chapter 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution, entitled "Basic rights and obligations of the Bulgarian citizens" under the Constitution itself cannot be implemented by a simple law, not by a code, not even by a simple amendment in the Bulgarian Constitution! With regard to the fundamental, constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens, the Constitution itself requires that any violation of those rights can be carried out only by a Grand National Assembly, honourable Members. So playing here with the transformation of a fundamental, constitutional right into an obligation into a simple law, as is the Election Code, is unacceptable and will be abolished by the Constitutional Court, no matter how euphemistic you will formulate it, whether you will formulate it as a civic debt, as a moral debt, or any other similar definition. A record that reads: "Vote is mandatory" is in blatant contradiction with art. 42, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution and will be repealed by the Constitutional Court immediately, without any hesitation. Therefore, I urge you not to play with this topic, not to be so light, to put aside populist motives and close party interests that you do not realize where they are taking you, and to support our proposals for dropping this text. Recently, the Bulgarian Prime Minister quoted you as one and Bulgarian, and not only a Bulgarian proverb, which reads: "Powerful beauty does not happen. You can't force people to love you or vote for you. I say this especially for those who have asked citizens to vote. Dear colleagues, with an obligation you will not provide more support or cause Bulgarian citizens to love Bulgarian politicians or political parties. No problem will you solve on the contrary, you will create new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u41	- What's the line? I won't. Radan Kanev has the floor. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! I doubt there is a clearer example of the huge gap that is carved between Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian so-called political elite. We regret to note that there is no other one, by voting on the Election Code, from the attention that we devote to the Election Code, compared to the attention that we devote to questions that interest millions of Bulgarians. And vice versa, from the indifference which, quite naturally, millions of Bulgarians have towards the topic of the Election Code, compared to the interest they have towards other topics. It's been a long time since I've seen this room so full... [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u43	Because you don't come to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u44	...and I'm sure I won't see her for a while. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u45	Colleagues, please have a normal atmosphere in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u46	This was expected, Madam President, so there is no need to make a remark even There's no problem here. The point is that such intensive, 24-hour preparations for the adoption of the Code and such an intensive vote, which will be available today, I am sure that there will also come a proposal for an extension of parliamentary time...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u47	There will be no such proposal. Today and tomorrow we work until 2 p.m. there are committee meetings. For information to all Members of the National Assembly. Sorry to interrupt, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u48	Thank you. Good news. All this shows the extent to which the political representatives of the Bulgarian citizens are interested in the procedures that provide their work.. procedures that do not concern and do not affect the work of the Bulgarian citizens. Today we are dealing with ourselves and something worse than ourselves. We deal with this on a violent legislative path, with the specific paragraph we are now discussing at second reading, to oblige Bulgarian citizens to fill the huge gap between us and them, which we have dug ourselves. A wilderness that is our sin is to be filled by imposing an obligation on others to appear to the ballot boxes and vote for one of us. That is, where there is no confidence, there is the most severe demonstration of distrust for many years, constantly reducing participation in the electoral process, that we create trust by forcing people to trust us. Because the main problem that we can solve with the mandatory vote is that people who don't trust us, worried about certain sanctions, go and vote. There are several arguments that are made public in favour of compulsory voting. One of them, let's face it here, is to reduce the result of colleagues in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because their constituents had voted in order and ours did not. In love with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, there is no way you can accuse me and we have noticed more than once that the attitude is mutual. However, the problem is that their constituents trust them more than our voters do, we will not resolve it with an obligation to vote. Moreover, who makes this argument very little knows the model of voting of Bulgarian ethnic Turks, of Bulgarian Muslims. They punish us in a basic way by not voting, which means that by forcing them to vote, we will be very surprised by a higher result of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, not lower. There's another argument, and it's that we're going to cut the buy vote. Colleagues, this is, to put it mildly, the wagon in front of the horse. The first question is: who buys vote in Bulgaria? Does only DPS buy vote in Bulgaria? I'd be very happy if that were true. However, there were huge problems with bought votes in tens of hundreds of municipalities, in which there is not a single vote for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. So the vote buys other parties that will vote today for the mandatory vote to fight the bought vote they buy themselves! Is that what's gonna happen? And eventually we will provide incentives for compulsory voting to bribe Bulgarian voters officially, under the law [[the President signals that time has run out]] With their own money, as Bulgarian taxpayers! I can't accept such an argument. And I can't accept us acting like an old maid looking for young voters with money on a violent path! [[Radio, applause and laughter by GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u49	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Since there are no new ones, something new to hear from the speakers, I am making a procedural proposal to end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u51	A reverse opinion? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the opposite view of what was done by the MP Bajraktarov for the following reason: the mandatory vote is news in the Bulgarian political life and deserves to be discussed. Obviously, the interest is great and many colleagues, in my opinion, who have signed up for a speech, have not yet been able to do so. Besides, Mr. Bayraktarov, you have no way of knowing if they'll say anything new and whether the debate has run out. I'm asking you to support me. I'm sure more arguments will be heard against this completely ill-conceived text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u53	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u54	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, we are voting on one of the most important laws that Parliament is dealing with in general. In this regard, I call on you not to approach formally the law laid down in the Rules for the termination of debates when this is done as a procedural proposal, but in view of the fact that there may be Members of Parliament who have a desire to participate, to make editorial amendments. Before you proceed to an end to the debate, let us know if there are any MPs who have signed up and who are willing to make such editorial amendments. Otherwise, they will be deprived of this possibility if the procedure for termination of the debates is formally applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u55	Dear Mr Kazak, I share your opinion that this is a major issue and one of the main proposals for amendments to the Election Code. We should make a difference on the issues that are important, for the first time offered in a new way to solve, and my personal opinion is that on these issues all MPs who have been declared so far should be heard, and after that speech, because it is indeed a very important issue. However, since such a procedure has been carried out, I have no sole authority to divert it and not to put it to the vote. In view of the above, I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the deliberations under § 1. And I will vote against you, Mr. Kazak. Vote 182 MPs: 91, against 75, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u56	I'm doing a re-voting procedure because Mr. Atalay couldn't vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u57	It's a re-vote. Vote 181 MPs: 90 against 79, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] The word for speech is Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u58	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! The history of mankind has very vivid pages in the struggle for electoral rights. [[The FPG members shall leave the hall.]] We'll wait for the Patriots to come out, Madam Chairman, don't worry. They have reason to be afraid of what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u59	We're listening, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u60	I repeat, the history of mankind is plentiful with very vivid pages of the struggle for electoral rights. It is a legitimate question of what state democracy is in and what is the self-confidence and self-consciousness of the majority in this Parliament if it proposes a mandatory vote. Obviously, when people fought for electoral rights, they had the hope that by means of power they could realize their inherent interests and influence their destinies. When voters withdraw from this right, it is an assessment and distrust of the government itself and of the mechanisms for building power themselves. However, I take the floor to address all the parliamentary groups that are ready to support the mandatory vote to each and every MP. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are consistent when you vote for a mandatory vote, you must also support the following consequences. Firstly, the 4-percent barrier to the entry of parties and coalitions into parliament must be determined by the total number of voters in a given election that you have obliged to express their attitude. And so, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u61	Mr. Bojinov, that's another paragraph. Let's stick to the wording of § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u62	Madam President, I repeat: whoever supports the mandatory vote must be prepared, if he is a consistent politician and responsible to his constituents, to support your parliamentary group's next proposal, that those who voted negatively for the proposed candidates must count their opinion and the total number of candidates voted for and rejected must be determined the 4-percent barrier...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u63	Well, that's how it's gonna be, Mr. Bojinov. Wait till it's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u64	Madam President, don't edit my speech! I address those who escaped. They fled because now they will vote for mandatory, and then they will reject the other proposal and go to people to present themselves as patriots and politicians. And you fear this truth and logic of things. Not by yourself in this case, but by those you need to support you. That's why you're interrupting my speech. Let me finish with just the words that this game cannot be hidden from the voters. This concern is not in the interests of the voters. This care serves those who fear that they cannot gain enough trust in the Bulgarian society and therefore play this game for themselves and not in the interests of the people. It cannot be hidden from them and this game will receive its assessment when with one percent will drop many nurses of the public nursery, and many who barely jump the 4-percent barrier to serve other interests rather than the interests of those who supported them. That's why my words bother those who left the hall and are called patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u65	- What's the line? Mr. Karakachanov, first line. There's gonna be a second one. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov, for having no doubt. I'll give you a line with the best feelings for you, but we have to be exact. First of all, did you not specify from which beginning of mankind Adam and Eve are we counting the beginning of mankind, or from modern times when elections are being produced in normal countries? [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, the mandatory vote is a topic that we at IMRO and since the beginning of the existence of the Patriotic Fronts are constantly maintaining and it is not for any conjunctural reasons. In our history there are no conjunctural moments, no moments of doing or not doing anything at the expense of other political formations, which, when in power, behave in one way when in opposition, behave in another way. They are usually patriots only when they are in opposition, and when they are in power, they make all kinds of compromises with everything that is conjunctural and useful for someone else, but not for the state Bulgaria. That was my line. I will reserve the right to speak, too, in order to argue the very mandatory vote as necessary for society. So respect your colleagues more, because if we enter into such.. which ones are invented, who are not invented, who are konncture, who are not konjunctural, who, who, who, what served me, believe me, the account, when we strike the line, will not benefit the party on whose behalf you are speaking at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u67	Second line, Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to disprove who was before me for the fact that the MPs from the Patriotic Front have left the Chamber out of fear. On the contrary, they left out of disgust for the political hypocrisy that was raging from this tribune. You can't have a party talking about world history, and your own story from a year or two ago won't remember! I particularly remember how her President of this party announced that he would introduce a mandatory vote that this is the salvation for democracy. Now, right at 180 degrees, we're talking about the other one. I remember again a year ago when you were defending this party, mandatory voting. All this may be very convenient for politicians who are accustomed to being in this parliament forever and being re-elected by the fact that disgusted people from their lies then do not go to vote. Well, in this case, if the mandatory vote passes, the disgusted people will go to vote and vote against those politicians who are accustomed to being in this parliament forever. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u69	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u70	Mrs. Chairman! To the last Member's statement when, a year and a half ago, we were about to make a statement, whether the voter should rule in a referendum on compulsory voting, and this is a different case than the one in which the political class, as you call it, or the MPs, will oblige voters. And don't speculate, because this is a consistent position of BSP. As for my esteemed MP Krasimir Karakachanov, I, when I said the story, did not mean the prehistoric for which Adam may have, under limited circumstances, but still made a free choice. [[Radio.]] I was referring to those times when in Bulgaria women were not allowed to vote and the background of our present party in its other political dimensions has led this struggle and successfully brought it to this that Bulgarian women, true, in a limited format, first, and then everyone, can vote. As for the eternal MPs, I do not worry that for the seventh time freely, without being obliged, a sufficient number of Bulgarian voters have sent me to this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u71	The word for speech is Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. Let's get Karadaye ready.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u72	Madam President, honourable Members! Following the Commission's logic, where the report says that a sanctioning action to the mandatory vote will not be supported, it is not really mandatory. It only becomes mandatory on paper. We are simply recording that there will be a mandatory vote, but in fact it will not be because there will be no sanctions. If we adopt a mandatory vote with a call, I am firmly against it. There can be no restriction on the democratic right to choose people through an obligation. We can't force people to like us and choose us. It's up to all of us who have elected positions from the local authorities, all the MPs who are here, to get people to come out and vote for us. At the moment, you know what Parliament's rating is and in principle politicians. People don't like us. Why do we have to force them to like us? Let's make them like us with what we do. I also like the supplement that's put in for the civic debt at the end. Yes, going out and voting is a civic duty, but we cannot oblige people to do that duty. It is a personal choice, a personal desire in the presence of one. I'm hoping we can accept the option of stimulating people so they can get out more. The idea of mandatory voting is to get more people out, to have more representation, to have more people express their opinion and thus to know that more people are represented in parliament and in the local authorities, and that their desire and, their choice has made the choice of people who are here and in the local authorities, but we cannot oblige them by coercion, by sanction. If we vote on the text, as proposed by the Commission, it will write on paper, but it will not be on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u73	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Karadaye. After him to cook Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have made an offer to dismiss § 1 and our considerations have just been set out here, from the stands, by Mr. Kazak. I'm taking the floor to make a suggestion eventually if we don't accept this proposal. As in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 42, para. 1 it is settled that Bulgarian citizens have the right to choose and this right is not an obligation, but a right of the Bulgarian citizens, but in para. 2 it is said that the organisation and order for the production of elections is determined by law, from this point of view, Madam President, unless our proposal to reject § 1, I am making a specific editorial proposal in § 1, item. 1 where the text is mandatory, it is carried out personally by the voter and it is a performance of his civic debt and a comma to be placed and the text to continue: the right of every Bulgarian citizen to be able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u75	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has become some bad practice in parliament to import texts that have a camouflage character. Here very recently we had another bill, supposedly for local taxes and fees, and lobbying for taxis were being considered. We are now being presented with an amendment and an addition to the Election Code, but in fact the purpose of these amendments, especially the first one, which sounds like getting the voter to vote for us, even if he doesn't want to, is rather false. The goal is, if possible, to vote for the politicians he does not want, but even if he shows in any way by giving an empty ballot, or by putting in some special box, in which he says he does not want to vote for either of us, then this thing counts as a real voice and practically give its vote for the first, that is, those who hate them most, to give their vote. What are you doing? What are you really doing? You make a man go to the polls, even though he can't look at you and me, including... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That's right, mate. Mrs. Tsacheva will extend me the time for these agitators you're making, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u77	It's not certain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u78	...then you tell him: because we oblige you and you will be obliged to vote, you might try to show us that you don't want to vote for us, and that's why we'll outsmart you with a clever mathematics.... that we not only respect your voice, but consider it even the first, the most abominable. Ladies and gentlemen, these attempts at official victories, these attempts at mimecry of folk love are not from yesterday. Already in 1892 "1893." Aleko Konstantinov described the handsome ones like you who imported these texts. He wrote them very accurately. Because with this mandatory vote you are tabling, so to speak, many problems in the Bulgarian society, people no longer know what to do. There are people who just don't have the money to run away from the state anymore. You chase them every step of the way. In fact, you're forcing them to go and vote for you. Where do these people run off to?! They can't escape their politicians. So I'm going to offer you another text editing of this one. If you'll allow me, I'll leave it to you, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u79	For the stenogram, offer it as well, read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u80	You will now hear it, it will become clear. So as early as 1890, this text was invented by Aleko Konstantinov because of those like you. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 of his Law of Election is a Faeleton, it is not a real law, it says so: Three days before the election, as well as on the very day of selection, there is moral influence on voters and the arrest of the educators. [[Laughter and excitement.]] If voters are busy stopping on road traffic or otherwise, the police will see to it that the ballots are released in the polls instead. Here's your permission, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. [[Replyes: "Bravo!" and applause by BSP LB. Laughter and excitement.]] But why do we have to make people waste their time on election day going, voting, proving to you how much they love you? Well, he's gonna get confused and write in the box that you don't like it, and you're not gonna like it. So let's just take this article right over here. 5 on Aleko Konstantinov Bay and make it clear that whoever does not go to the urn, the police, the Ministry of Interior will take care on his behalf to get the ballot released. You have to show care for the people who chose you to do your job at the same time. You're looking for a professional victory, aren't you? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u81	How to be included in § 1's Decision Project? With a corresponding paragraph, as Mr. Karadaye did, a comma goes on and on?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u82	It says: art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u83	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Karadjov, after all, it is nice to have some respect from the parliamentary platform, and compared to things that are not comparable, not to be done. At least because of the fact that you claim to be a moralist and a fighter for rights, freedoms and any other protection, as you were from the beginning of this term when you had fought hard against the DPS. And at one point you started meeting for the Constitution and stopped, even apologizing to the DPS for what you said. You of all people are to account for us as importers, accusing us of something that is immoral, little by little is wrong! Because it wasn't us from the Patriotic Front who went to meetings at the DPS for the Constitution, it was the two of you talking to each other right now. [[Applause from GERB. MPs Grozdan Karadjov and Radan Kanev are speaking.]] Isn't that right? I can't tell when you're right, when you're moral, when you're not?! When you talk about this period: 1892 - 1893, look at what happened and what was created.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u85	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u86	Thank you, Madam President. As we have entered the field of fairies, I will quote today a great Bulgarian, I will rather paraphrase his statement from the Slavic History of Bulgaria: O, foolish MP, because you are ashamed to tell the truth? [[Laughter and excitement.]] And the truth is, you shined, not to continue the folk tale that once again it's important to hug the DPS [[Applause from GERB]] and to protect this unconstitutional party on the grounds that, you see, the mandatory vote was something very scary and something very unconstitutional should happen in this Bulgarian state. However, I will remind all of you in your election campaigns that you explicitly told the voters that you would introduce a mandatory vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u87	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u88	Read your election campaigns on the left and on the right, because today we witness something else: left and right hug against the Bulgarian citizen. I don't understand that! [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u89	Third line? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Karadjov, you surprised us today and we made a new discovery: after we realized that you are already an opposition, you have just informed us that you are no longer involved in politics and are no longer a politician. You spoke and you spoke. You blamed us politicians and branded us with all the blackest things that could exist. If you're sincere, I expect you to leave this room to be honest until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u91	A hole, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague of the Patriotic Front, in any of my words, I have not mentioned any of you. [[Reply from the Patriotic Front.]] To a large extent, I'm surprised what this total recognition from your group is. I really didn't mean any of you. Those who will vote for this proposal, perhaps, but that is in the future. We haven't voted yet. So my respects to the Patriot Front Group. There are, however, principled things. The first principle is that the DPS is an ethnic party. I've been saying this from the beginning, and I keep saying it. Yes, their constituents vote as an obligation. Yes, it's a social and political phenomenon. Yes, we need to find a way to deal with this because a party cannot oblige those living and speaking Turkish in certain regions to vote for them. Again, this is a social phenomenon. They found that way. This false preposition that you offer us to punish reciprocal DPS and punish the entire Bulgarian people with a mandatory vote, excuse me, I do not accept it. So if you recognized yourself in some of my words, I'm sorry, it wasn't you. That's the fifth time I've told you! And as for whether it is relevant or not, I will bring you back to the present moment, to what I have read is absolutely relevant. There is a party in parliament that has an account now to support you. This is a thin political account. We will now support them, then the Constitutional Court will remove it for them, but we will also make a commercial, and the Alush-Verish will pass. Is this the game you're buying? Is that politics? Is that what we're doing here in this parliament? And you're telling me I've distinguished. No, I specifically said in my speech that I'm getting into it, like all of you. That's why it's you too. I'm not going behind this offer. And I argued why. For even in the days of the thousand eight hundred ninety and one year, there were such measures that people should be obliged to walk. So quiet, so good and so little ketek, but let them go!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u93	Mr. Chavdar Georgiev has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! Clearly, what is proposed as § 1 of the Bill is a kind of false start. There is no way that the vote is mandatory. This is contrary to our Constitution. It defines the vote and the right for everyone to choose as freely, voluntarily, as a general, as a direct and so on. Therefore, Madam President, in order to be as constructive as possible, I propose that we make a simple correction in this paragraph and the word................................................................................ 1 to be replaced by.. free and voluntary.................................................................................................... 2 in respect of para. 3 The expression of another likeness, because it is legally unprecise, to be dismissed. I'm making these proposals for an editorial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u95	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, indeed § 1 has caused a lot of debate, but we need to go back and see exactly what is being offered and how clean it is. Understand that recorded voting is mandatory, but without a sanction in the Law, it would mean absolutely nothing. Perhaps one of the lawyers should stand up and say where something in the legislation is prohibited and does not result in sanctions from it?! Or further on, perhaps you will introduce some standard as a sanction that you are not telling us at the moment, or you are deluding us that such a norm will not exist in a mandatory vote. Another, a moral obligation has been introduced in terms of his civic duty. In the same way, all voters can turn to us. Give it to me. We'll take it to this moral standard. I'm joining Mr. Georgiev on para. 3, where it writes and other similar (s) where, under the other (s) similar (s) it can be understood that.................... the meaning of the text is.... those involved with the electoral process, the electoral is the main part and the focus of the electoral process. Understand that we are in different times where the mandatory vote that we have proposed is some form of alternative, but it is not the form of an alternative to getting society to vote, because in this way what do we say to them? That we're out of political ideas, out of good governance. And let us oblige you, or we will give you a material raffle to participate in to stimulate you. This is in no way an option for elections to stimulate democracy in the country. Yeah, we had an offer, too. This House has voted not to enter. And why didn't you come in? Because we demanded that there be another constitutional norm when there is a mandatory vote, that there be an educational censure. Yes, we required additional provisions to be introduced. Otherwise, the proposed text is empty. We accept it, but if we don't accept a penalty further, what does it mean?! How are we going to oblige them? How do we sanction people? Who's gonna sanction them? With what? It'll be moral. That he has it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u97	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Ahmedova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several statements have highlighted the truth about why this article is being proposed. It was formulated by several importers, namely that it is done for anti-DPS purposes. Fellow importers, if you think you are doing this anti-DPS today, I assure you that today you are doing this anti-Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. If you respect the rule of law, if you respect your own people, you will never make it an anti-party, despite the will of the supreme law of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is unacceptable that you, the importers of this obligation, should be called patriots. Because if you don't respect your country's supreme law, you can't respect anything else! In this regard, Madam President, I am making an editorial proposal of the text: the vote is carried out personally by the voter, it is a performance of his civic debt on the grounds of art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u99	You are opposed to what Mr. Karadaye proposed here to put a comma and then to continue by guaranteeing the right of every Bulgarian...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u100	That's his offer. The proposals are not accumulated, they are voted separately. My proposal is to put the editorial to the vote: the vote is carried out personally by the voter, it is a performance of his civic duty in the performance of art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u101	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would ask, Mrs. Tsacheva, that you do not organize the work of the DPS with the proposals. However, it is good for them to gather together and make proposals to know what they are importing and not one to import one, the other to waste the time of the National Assembly. Our other proposal for a mandatory vote has been directed against the practices that the DPS has introduced during the elections for 26 years. The practices that you have introduced in order, under threat, with incentives and all kinds of other things, causing people to vote for a single party in certain regions! [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]] And you talking... [[Reply by MP Rushen Riza.]] Well, look at the results in each municipality where the DPS has positions and you'll find out what the practice is. [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]] The example is seen by all Bulgarian citizens and everyone who deals with politics in Bulgaria. You're in formation, with these primos, you're asking us to do this so that this influence can be limited. All these practices, which are unacceptable in a democratic state, you introduced them! And even worse, you have taught other parties to do so. [[Relation of lines between the MPs Rushen Riza and Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u103	Colleagues, please no dialogue outside the regulated way in this House! Second line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u104	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I apologize in advance for what I have to say. We've been doing this for so long, so much pressure in this room because of this stupid thing. Legally, that's bullshit! There can be no obligation when there are no sanctions. Who are we lying to about introducing a mandatory vote?! I am strongly opposed, first of all, as a lawyer, because this is unconstitutional and we are all aware of that. I'm taking a line, Mrs. Ahmedova, to tell you that you're not right at all. This text is not against the DPS, it works for you. He works for you because it brings your constituents together again. To you, colleagues from the Patriotic Front, I can tell you: since you resent the fact that the DPS has spent so many years putting such bad practices in order to go to their voters and supporters to vote, I cannot understand why you want to take the entire Bulgarian people to the polls in order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u105	Third line, please, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My line is on the thesis of the anticonstitutional nature of this proposal. I can't agree with him, and I'm going to bring non-legal, not legal, but political arguments. Those who today express such a thesis show social hypocrisy. In Section II, Article 4 (1) is replaced by the following: 9 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government is clearly stated: national referendums can be carried out on issues decided by the National Assembly. Gentlemen, I ask you simply: why are you and you, when it comes to a referendum on this issue initiated by the President of the Republic and a civil movement of over 600,000. The voice, you thought it was possible, and today you're saying it's anticonstitutional? It's insecurities and hypocrisy! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u107	We were for the referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u108	A hole, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u109	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Angelov, the first line was yours. There is no need, Madam President, for you to deal with the DPS to organize us. Rather, organize a course on the Staff Regulations to train some of the colleagues what the Rules say, who can what and who should do what! Perhaps Mr. Angelov has not yet been able to read it and does not understand that any MP can make his own proposals at second reading. Regarding the other lines, I never understood because the lines were not to me, they were rather to the other replicating ones. Mr. Angelov, you should be aware that this is the practice when you make such proposals, they always work against the one who proposed them. The movement for rights and freedoms does not really need anyone to deal with us. We can organize ourselves, we can defend our own rights. We know our rights and obligations. Colleagues, I call on you: you better deal with yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u110	The word is Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I don't think I'm going to surprise you because I've spoken against mandatory voting many times. In any case, this debate in the Bulgarian Parliament came to light. There are some expectations that our sick democracy will be cured with this miraculous pill called "Vote." Why do I say sick democracy? Because, unfortunately, practice shows that in the electoral process very often there are opportunities for manipulation, bought vote, corporate vote. It is believed that, in the event of a mandatory vote, the weight of the purchases and the corporate vote will fall sharply and this will improve the quality of the electoral process. I personally believe that in order to deal with the corporate and the bought vote, we need all the institutions in the country and we, as a Bulgarian parliament, to make the effort that is being made to distance Bulgaria from these harmful, shady and bad practices for the implementation of elections. In practice, the right to choose is freedom. Freedom is a choice. But can there be freedom when you impose a binding choice on me? For me, compulsory choice is not freedom. This mandatory choice, if not realized, and for me the vote is a conscious choice, is like forcing someone to work on a computer or forcing them to play the piano. It's very interesting if you forced someone to play the piano without learning about it and realized that he needed it, what work would he perform, what music would your ears hear? More or less the same music will hear your ears when the mandatory vote takes place. I'm sure we'll make Frankenstein, which we'll have a hard time getting rid of later, and it'll be hard to control. Force someone, in this case the Bulgarians to do something, will probably get a work that will not be liked at all by the Bulgarian society. It's a matter of philosophy and world sense, fellow Members. Let us reduce the burden of the DPS by voting on a mandatory basis is not true at all. If you follow the statistics, you will see that in all these years, a maximum of 60% of people with Turkish ethnic consciousness voted. If we really do make the mandatory vote effective, because for me this is not a mandatory vote, we are simply introducing the term.................... but as Mr. Atanasov said without sanctions, I cannot accept that this is a mandatory vote. Most likely this will mobilize the electorate of colleagues and they will demonstrate an even better result and will have even more weight. I mean, this argument didn't work out either. I think it would be good when we look at established democratic practices, to really strive to achieve their levels. Tell me, are there any of the big, rich democratic countries, with one or two exceptions, and, unfortunately, in the negative sense that the mandatory vote was put in place? Why didn't they introduce a mandatory vote in the United States, in Germany, in the UK? A mandatory vote in Greece has seen the result! It is imperative that the vote in Belgium, if I am not mistaken, was without a government for two years. However, unlike Bulgaria, in Belgium they can afford to be two years without government and things to move on established tracks and established levels of agreement in society. So I'm still asking you, let's once again realize is it freedom to force someone to make a choice? Sorry, this does not meet the goals set by the Bulgarian society for achieving an effective democracy and for a normality in our society. Whether it's necessary or not, it'll tell the time. Even if voted today, there will probably be a bad practice, which Parliament will try to get rid of very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u112	- What's the line? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Zelenogorski, I agree with almost everything you said, except that importers did not offer a penalty for mandatory voting. In practice, however, there is such a penalty and this is the deletion from the electoral list because any deprivation, withdrawal of rights is a kind of penalty. It doesn't have to be financial. Another point is that when they delete and shape the new election lists, who will do so? Executive power, no matter who it is. And I can imagine from here on out what the future electoral list will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u114	Second line? Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u115	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Zenogorski, with all due respect to you and as former colleagues, mayors of Pleven and Plovdiv, I will tell you that you are not telling the whole truth. You're partly telling the truth. Are democracies sick in Ireland, are democracies sick in France, because there is also a mandatory vote for Senate? Are democracies sick in Australia and New Zealand? Are Frankenstein also democracies in these countries? I think we must go a long way to reach their democratic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u116	Third line? I won't. Mr. Zelenogorski's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u117	Colleague Popov, we have the treatment and it is the active registration. Yeah, I know there's an idea to enter a deletion from the lists. We have proposed not to consider doing so once you do not exercise your right to vote, but at least twice consistently, but we believe that the treatment is active registration. Unfortunately, I see no agreement in the Bulgarian Parliament to go to active registration. As for Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov, in France it is not mandatory to vote, it is mandatory to vote only in Greece and Belgium. With all due respect to our friends... [[Noise and lines from PF. Proclaims: "It's not true! "]] Okay, come on, in Ireland, and another country, okay. After all, the expectation that we will achieve high standards with the mandatory vote will not happen. Don't force people to play the piano. You're not gonna like what they're gonna play, I'm sure of it. I assure you, for 25 years we have been dealing here with a group of colleagues making elections and we hope that they will be honest. And the idea that somehow we will solve the problems with the corporate and bought vote is not, in this way it will not be solved. On the contrary, only prices will fall. So I call on the Bulgarian institutions together to deal with the bought vote and not to try to reduce its burden during a mandatory vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u118	To speak, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I had no intention of taking the floor, but apparently the previous statements have somewhat shifted the motives, shifted the essence of our proposal, and it is necessary once again, if you allow me, to scan the reasons why we have prepared this proposal, why we stand by it and appeal to you to be supported. First of all, as has been delivered and recognised in a number of speeches, our democracy is in a severe crisis at the moment, in a diseased state. After 25 years, no one can even think that the people are represented normally, democratically and fairly at all levels of elections and the respective institutions that are subject to elections. In the minds of society, the concept of elections is currently identified by pressure, fear, money, repression, risks. All this after 25 years is not a good characteristic of what happened in Bulgaria. We are proposing the mandatory vote not as a panacea, but as a first step, and it is an extremely serious step to reduce the impact of precisely these negative, I would say, retrograde processes and, accordingly, we will not hide it, that is the main reason This process must be put an end to it. I do not accept the argument of colleagues on the right that this will not happen, that this will cause an increase in the corresponding mobilisation. No, that's not gonna happen, fellow Members! I'll tell you why it won't work. Because statistics show that the results of the DPS of each subsequent election fall, in the last elections decreased by 200,000. So there's no way they're gonna dial any more electors. After 25 years the Turkish speakers realized that this party is harmful not only to Bulgaria but also to themselves, because it represents nothing but an economic octopus based on ethnic and religious delusions. You're all witnessing the split of this party, so there's nothing to worry about mobilizing...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u120	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u121	Yeah, to the point, thank you. These distortions must be removed and we are proposing the first and serious step in this direction with the mandatory vote. We would also like to recall, although we have made this argument that world practice shows that 17% of the world's countries have put in place a mandatory vote. There is no point in questioning the fact that there is one in France, in Belgium, in northern Italy, in Greece, in Australia, in Argentina, in Chile and so on and so forth. [[Noise and lines.]] Countries with a very high level of democracy, not to mention the material welfare of the population. So there are plenty of examples. And it is not right, as was said in one of the lines, to compare ourselves with Germany, to compare ourselves with Britain or other countries, definitely with quite a long historical experience in the field of democracy. With regard to the argumentation of the opponents of this Law. First of all. You can become all one by one, you can speak all you want, only it is not your right and it is not your job to determine whether this is a constitutional right or an obligation, because the Constitution also gives other rights that are realized through obligations. That is the case with the right to choose. By the way, there is no right to vote in the Constitution, there is a choice. The right of choice, for example, goes through the obligation to settle and this is not rejected by the Constitutional Court. The right to social benefits goes through the social security obligation. The right to pension is also a pension insurance policy. The right to bilateral service also requires the obligation to pay health contributions. So don't worry about the Constitutional Court's decision, but you have the right to refer it to him. Second of all, I'm stressing fat, maybe we should start with him. Right now, we're talking more about introducing a moral obligation. [[the President signals that time has run out]] ... I have two sentences only, if I may. A moral obligation is written, so we have corrected the text. Thirdly, what is this obligation without sanctions? There are sanctions. There are these sanctions, you'll see them in art. 242a. You will see these sanctions, which are related to the other last question that you had addressed, colleagues on the right. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is performed in an elegant way. I respect your arguments, honourable Members of the Reformation Block, I do not accept the arguments of the DPS, but I call on all of us to take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u122	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. For the first line Mr. Velizar Enchev, for the second for Mr. Radan Kanev, for the third for Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u123	Mr. Simeonov, I agree with you that democracy is sick. However, Mr. Simeonov, democracy is not treated with obligations and bans. Don't you feel, Mr. Simeonov, that in the last two months of your parliamentary group there have been a lot of bans? You're offering her responsibilities. You offer compulsory military service, you offer mandatory voting, you offer and you have already introduced and mandatory fingerprinting, which is a practice from the Third Reich to Hitlerist Germany. Too, too many obligations within a month, which is actually undemocratic and precisely such behaviour must be treated. In addition, when waving the alibi, a movement for rights and freedoms and labeling anyone who agrees with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms under separate laws, laws and projects is too counterproductive, as I will immediately answer the opposite. By this logic, I declare that you are an ally of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because in the last year and a half together you voted Budget 2015, Budget 2016 [[crowding, comments from GERB and DPS]] , together you voted on the 18-billion-dollar debt... Wrong. Together you voted on the 18 billion debt, together you voted on the panel affair. That's a similar comparison...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u124	Mr. Enchev, on the subject of mandatory voting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u125	Yeah, that's right, I do, of course, a flashback. That is, such labeling and placing a sign of equality with labeling between parliamentary groups and independent MPs does not at all mean that we are in the same position. Just because we stand for this right together with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the law that is written in the Constitution, that voting is a right, not an obligation, does not mean that we think alike. We think alike as constitutionalists, and we do not think alike as political representatives. Therefore, please do not put such doubts, which are essentially discriminatory and do not reflect the actual truth at this time. Therefore, Mr. Zelenogorski spoke very well, I fully agree with you.. Don't treat the Bulgarian voters as a flock of sheep that you will drive to the polls just because you need to reduce the influence of a party!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u126	Second line, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u127	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Simeonov, I replicate you because I am convinced of the sincerity and the good intentions of offering this text. Many times we have had such talks on a political level between our formations. But get to the point. You say there is a severe illness in our society and our democracy. Nobody's arguing about it. Do you dispute the fact that this is a disease of trust? The crisis of trust between Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian political parties, even individual Bulgarian politicians is the severe disease of Bulgarian democracy. The destruction of this trust is due precisely to the behavior of the Bulgarian parties and politicians who today propose a medicine to oblige the people whose trust they have destroyed to go and vote. We'll deepen the disease. We're giving the wrong medicine. Nobody's arguing about having a disease. Except we're giving out a drug that will deepen the symptoms of the disease with very severe consequences. With regard to the argument for the DPS, a great deal has been said. All I'm saying is that it's a shame to sit in this one and discuss how to reduce the result of a party instead of rising up, not speaking harshly, and go... I see that Ms. Karayancheva is smiling, she is doing it, and looking for the trust of the voters of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms instead of wondering how on a legislative path we can somehow make life difficult for them. This thing does not happen in the legislative way, but becomes like Mrs. Karayancheva with work in mixed areas! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u128	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u129	And in terms of buying votes. Imagine a few hundred thousand people who, due to their lack of trust, have not made political choices in years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Wouldn't money be a much stronger argument for them than for people who make political choices?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u130	Third line, Mr. Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't accept, Mr. Simeonov, talking about democracy by a third party. We are part of Bulgarian democracy and if it has its diseases, we are part of them. The treatment of democracy is always with more democracy, that is, with more rights, with more civil responsibility and consciousness, and not with some form of involvement of some moral obligation. Be assured that the introduction of such obligations in situations like ours, where there is a bought and controlled vote, where there is a low freedom of citizens, especially during the election day and election process, there will be much more opportunities for pressure from local authorities, whether party or local administration, on voters and to be prompted, urged and pushed to go to vote. This will certainly not be good for Bulgarian democracy and I do not see it as a medicine. Why there is a mandatory vote in some countries? This must be addressed in the context of these countries and why this has been introduced. Certainly there the situation is very different and the reasons are different than the situation in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u132	A hole, Mr. Simeonov. Before that, colleagues, let me inform you that the debate is being monitored by our guests students from St. St. George's School. Cyril and Methodius. In the village of Bhutan, Kozloduy municipality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u133	Greetings to the young villagers of Bhutan! Bless you! Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Regarding the lines...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u134	I understand now, I'm sorry, Mr. Simeonov, that there are other guests. All guests are welcomed, it's just the information I have. [[Applause.]] Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! We're listening, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u135	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In terms of lines. Mr. Enchev, you say that only obligations and bans came from our parliamentary group, and, on the other hand, often many of our opponents accuse us of populism. These are two conflicting ones incompatible. It's not populism when you do your duty without regard to your political rating. That's what we've been doing for over a year, unlike you. Secondly, the duty of military service. Yes, we demand that there be such an obligation. Every Bulgarian male citizen must protect his homeland...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u136	Please, for lines that are beyond the subject of the debate, don't take offense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u137	Yeah. I won't talk about the Third Reich. I just want to remind you that on the three of these you had a match to our position when you were a host at Skat TV. I would also like to remind you that very often, rather, you support the proposals of the DPS and one of the most important Mr. Korman Ismailov's what more pressure than the local administration, Mr. Ismailov, would it work? There, the pressure is already over 100%. As engineers say, because I know you guys have some kind of flings, the nut has already broken the thread there, if you know what I'm saying. [[Radio.]] And Mr. Kanev's crisis of trust, Mr. Kanev. Embarrassingly, you say it is, how are you going to reduce the DPS score? Okay. We will take this risk of being accused, condemned and shamed. It's a shame, yes, we'll be ashamed. But the most important thing for us is not our political career, but to do something good for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u138	Thank you. Mr. Karadaye, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly's debate so far, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the liberal national responsible political force in the Republic of Bulgaria and it is inevitable that others do not measure with it. But we see that there is a more important topic than the point that we are looking at at at the moment, and it is the topic related to the notions, fantasies and attempts of individual MPs [[Field lines]] and different formations. From this point of view, there is clearly also a topic of reducing the electoral burden of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u140	What do you have against me, Mr. Karadayi?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u141	For this reason, Madam President, we propose that the item on the agenda be postponed and that we move on to discuss the so important issues that have been raised so far. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u142	Which dot? The whole point of the Election Code?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u143	Yes, Madam President. We're proposing a t. 7 on the agenda relating to the Election Code to be postponed, the MPs who have anything to say on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to share their views and by freeing ourselves from emotions then to move on to consideration of the Election Code and to deal seriously with the Election Code. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u144	Dear colleagues, there has been a procedural proposal for a change in the order of work of the National Assembly. Is there a counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote Mr Karadayi's proposal to postpone the item of consideration and voting in today's plenary session. Vote 179 MPs: 51 against 110, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. There are no other MPs to participate in the debate... There is now. Mr. Kardzhaliev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u145	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u146	I've announced the word, then I'll give you a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u147	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I regret this two-hour debate which took place in the highest institution in the Republic of Bulgaria. The epilogue of the debate on compulsory voting is in two sentences. The first is that this proposal is made only for one general purpose and this aim is to minimize the influence of a political party..A movement for rights and freedoms.......................................................................................... And the second sentence is the first time in so long, especially some speakers have increased to such a degree the self-esteem of all supporters and sympathizers of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that I can't help but thank them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u148	Please, to the substance of the text we are discussing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u149	This text is one of all in the last months and years that we can bring into the section "Anti-DPS." The anti-DPS thesis has always been an alibi in the hands of all political parties, without exception. The anti-DPS thesis has always been a test of legitimacy, an attestation for a bright future. The anti-DPS thesis was an oath of allegiance and a first argument even for the existence of certain parties. This debate has proven it once again. And I can say with confidence that we are a strong, powerful party. [[Applause from DPS.]] If we are challenging exactly such a debate, this in an unparalleled way, which has no analogy in retrospect, increases both self-esteem and copys those complexes, which along the tremors in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, someone tried to instill them in the Bulgarian society. I will tell you a secret that is to the detriment of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in this way, by binding vote, you will not be able to minimize our power. You will not be able to lower the relative share of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in Bulgarian public life. In other ways, however, you can. The word is one. It's called integration. Integration, which contains one component. It is called recognition of identity because if this component is not there, the opposite is assimilation. And assimilation leads to a natural reflexion for unity and for a reaction right in the direction I'm talking about. I'm finishing up once more with gratitude. If you are asking how this integration should be carried out, look at the vicious attempts of various parties in recent years. See and the experiments of the ruling party, compare these approaches and then you will see that when minorities are present in different areas of public life, then you can rely on these voices and then maybe one day, but I don't see it in the bright future, the DPS will either be in another form, or it may not even exist. At this stage, I alone thank you for the supported and plenipotentiary self-esteem of all sympathizers, all supporters and all members of the political party. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u150	First line? Colleagues, once again, I ask you to stick to the specific texts we are in the second vote, we are not discussing a specific political force. Please, according to the editorial proposal, let's be constructive. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u151	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, I would agree with you that much of the vote, political attitudes in society, the emergence of new patriotic parties from different spectrum argue with the existence of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. But I will not agree that this is the only antiquity, the only anti-conception in our society that defines our political life. First of all is anti-communism, Mr. Kardzhaliev. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] Around it is structured the entire department of the government, received posts, distributed money. And all based on the denial of his father's past, his grandfather's and everything else! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] So we will not allow the DPS to raise this thesis that around anti-DPS speaking is structured a part of political space. The whole political space is structured by the anti-communist principle, which you shared for a while, even wanted to ban our party from this tribune! When the door opens and when it starts on the anti-trust principle to structure political life, to vote the laws, to do the Election Code, because you're right that's what we're doing right now, we're not going to get to a good end. Those who believe that with some political scorns they will strengthen democracy are deeply deluded. She is sick not only in Bulgaria, she is sick in Europe and in the United States, who believe that they have applied Greek democracy on their territory. She is sick because you see how the so-called pre-elections are being held with a lot of money and television, without citizens! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I suggest you give up, honourable importers of this amendment. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here today it has been heard several times that compulsory voting is more a measure against buyings, corporate vote and all those heavy manipulations that we have been watching for quite some time in the elections. When Mr. Kardzhaliev says that he understands this as a reduction of the outcome of the DPS, there is no way not to make a single conclusion, Mr. Kardzhaliev that you recognize this result and these vices of the Bulgarian political process related. With regard to the replicator before me... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The line line can't, but I can't help but notice that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u154	Your line is to Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u155	... The BSP seems to perceive themselves as a Communist party. I do not know that you are called the Communist Party. I would be very interested to hear the PES and the Chairman of the PES how they feel about this. Thank you. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kardzhaliev, there is some very timid, very clumsy attempt to reverse the statements of those who spoke before you that these are anti-DPS those that today's meeting has almost become a discussion on a topic that is related to the DPS. In addition, a very interesting thesis that DPS is a powerful, strong party. Mr. Kardzhaliev, these are not anti-DPS at all, but these are the anti-monopoly and anti-mafiatization of elections in mixed regions! That's it! That's it! [[Reply from DPS: "Mafia! "]] Because the DPS mobilizes and monopolises these areas in an election way. Therefore, I do not support the relevant text, but I do support the reasons why colleagues from the Patriotic Front have tabled it. [[Applause from PF]] because people are tired of turning election results into political influence, which then makes you a strong and powerful party! Yes, a corrupt party, but in what way? In public procurement, you have to suck them into the appointment of judges and prosecutors in the purchase of sentences. Is this the strong and powerful Corpulent Party? Yeah, that's exactly what the strong and powerful Corpulent DPS is against, which are these texts, but only against his mafia practices! It's that the text is inappropriate, it's inappropriate, I repeat it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Kardzhaliev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, you are right.. Anticommunism is ideology, which has enjoyed a very selfish purpose in the last 25 years in Bulgaria. This debate, this debate is developing. In recent years, however, the other thesis, namely anti-DPS speaking, although not in the same systematic order, dominates the Bulgarian society. But otherwise I agree with your finding. With regard to the two colleagues from the Reformation Block, or I don't know who's from where already, I only have two sentences. Dear Mr. Delchev, dear Mr. Karadjov, with or without a mandatory vote, today is a good day for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I assure you the DPS will have good results. And the second sentence, because I do not want to continue with your style, a question of courtesy and political culture, will ask the stenographer to help me write down, please: Dr. Kardzhaliev waved generously with his hand and sat cheerfully in his place. Thank you. [[Happy excitement and applause from the DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After Dr. Kardzhaliev waved generously and sat in her seat...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u162	Do your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u163	...is clear that the debate is over. You can see that we are going to be generous and indulgent, which is why I am once again doing a procedure to end the debates, as we are going in another direction which is atypical and not required by MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. A reverse opinion? I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debate. Vote 179 MPs: 150, against 21, abstention 8. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. The debates are closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u165	Colleagues, we have a vote coming up. Similar proposals came from the MPs Georgi Kadiev, Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva, Hussein Hafuzov, Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The proposal is identical to that of § 1 to be dropped. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly, which I have quoted. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 193 MPs: 76 against 100, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u166	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a re-voting procedure because many of my colleagues have not understood what is being voted on. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote, honourable Members, the removal of an unconstitutional text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u167	It's a re-vote. 195 MPs voted: 83, Against 99, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Under Paragraph 1, the Commission's text in its report has received editorial proposals made by the parliamentary platform. I will put them to the vote in the order of the proposals made. The first one at the time was Mr. Karadaiyi, who proposed in t. 1 of art. 3 sentence 2 to be amended as follows: The vote is mandatory, carried out personally by the voter and represents the fulfilment of his civic debt, ensuring the right of every Bulgarian citizen to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Karadayi's editorial supplement. Vote 190 MPs: 34 against 105, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. The next two proposals belong to Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. He proposes in t. 1, para. 1 sentence second to change and give its new version:.Vote is free and voluntary, carried out personally by the voter and represents the fulfilment of his civic debt. We vote on this proposal by Mr. Chavdar Georgiev. They voted 193 MPs: for 76, against 86, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2, the proposal to create para. 3, he proposed that before the Union should be put in place of comma and at the end of the sentence of the outgoing text and another similar one. We vote on Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal. Vote 194 MPs: 62, against 85, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. The latest editorial proposal belongs to Mrs. Ahmedova, who proposes in point. 1 sentence second to read: The vote is carried out personally by the voter, it is a performance of his civic debt and is done on the grounds of art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We are voting on Mrs. Ahmedova's proposal. Vote 188 MPs: 55 against 88, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. We vote § 1. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 197 MPs: 110, against 75, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Come on in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u168	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure. Some of my colleagues have failed to vote. They also expressed opinions, but I see in the vote another way they vote. And let the colleagues of the BDZ, the patriots do not do the math that they will survive this vote. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u169	It's a re-vote. Vote 193 MPs: 109, against 74, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[Applause on the right.]] First negative vote, Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u170	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against this proposal for many reasons, many of which my colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups have spoken, but not for this to repeat their arguments, I have taken the floor for a negative vote, but to tell you that this just adopted proposal in this § 1 proves with great force the huge crisis in which the political system in Bulgaria and, in particular, the political parties and the so-called political class. This is proof of total bankruptcy and our complete inability to convince the voters in ours, in our belonging to democracy, to the Constitution, to rights and freedoms. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u171	Second negative vote? I won't. Colleagues, I'm calling a break at 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u172	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Here you are, Mr. Valkov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am taking the procedure in relation to my last vote on § 1 on the Commission. Please respect my voice for my voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u174	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 2. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "No choice and voting is allowed in a national referendum on the same day. " The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u176	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This text first meets the remote electronic vote and I am obliged to make an explanation so that you do not get the wrong impression, or colleagues who have not attended the meeting of the Legal Committee to remain under the wrong impression of what is happening. We've looked at two concepts, colleagues. They were either to sign in the so-called "Corporate" of the Law the remote electronic voting, as it is written machine, and in the transitional and final provisions to arrange for the so-called "experiment" that is, at the moment, until it enters into force and until it is verified that it is truly reliable, guarantees the secret of the vote and everything else, or to sign everything in Transitional and concluding provisions, given that we have united around the the thesis by 2019 to conduct a number of experiments to ensure precisely that there will be no problems and will work well. After all, the Legal Committee prevailed on the view that it is better to go to Transitional and Final Provisions fully sign the remote electronic voting, so in the rest of the text you will see how the Commission's proposal is that they drop out of the corps of the Law because they are written elsewhere. I hope that there will be a remote electronic vote, it is written in Transitional and Final Provisions, just will not be in the corps of the Law. Although I would support this provision, because my personal belief was that it was better to sign it here and in its systematic place in the Law, and in the transitional provisions to settle only the experiment, but both options I hope will work equally well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making an offer in the order of art. 80, para. 1 to extend the deadline for making proposals between first and second readings under the Family Aid Act for children by two weeks, or a total of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u180	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Stefan Kenov to extend the deadline for proposals under the Bill to three weeks. Vote 100 MPs: 85 against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Are there any other statements under § 2? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u181	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! We must reject BSP's proposal, which says the following thing: "The production of choice and voting in a national referendum on the same day is not allowed. " With which they say the following in a simple way: if there are elections and referendums in a given period, to be held separately to spend the state twice separately a huge resource. What's the point and what's the logic? In addition to the fact that the state will spend a huge amount of resources, the aim is to make people go and vote twice to participate in a similar form of consultation with them and in elections afterwards. And there's a hidden purpose. Here it should be said that BSP has a third hidden purpose. The third hidden purpose of BSP is for the referendums to have a low participation because, when you separate them from the elections, the chance to have a massive participation in the direct consultation with the people is small. That is, BSP pursues three goals, which at all costs, colleagues, we must reject, firstly, because they are not democratic, secondly, cost expensive, and thirdly, in practice denigrate and remove the content part, make the idea of the referendum meaningless. The idea of the referendum is a good idea on complex issues on which there is a public debate, it is good to hold such referendums, but it is also good to have the participation in them mass in order to be representative. Colleagues, I appeal to all the parliamentary groups together to reject this poor and thoughtless proposal by BSP colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dimitrov! This proposal is a discussion about it, it can be supported, it can be rejected. I would like to draw your attention to a few arguments that you can take into account. Firstly, since you voted that it is mandatory to participate by citizens in each scheduled vote, one argument is dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u184	We didn't vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u185	How could you not have voted? Not only was the majority formed, but there were such voices. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Okay, okay, thank you. But the argument's off anyway. Now everyone will be forced to vote, so whether they are together or separately, this argument is no longer relevant. Secondly, in some cases combining the elections with a referendum is a very risky undertaking. Imagine if the next parliamentary elections were to be held in Britain in total with the referendum on the referendum on or against the stay of the UK in the European Union. Do you think that in this election campaign there will be another topic other than the topic of the referendum and that there will be another orientation of voters to parties, besides their opinion on the main question: whether they should stay or not in the European Union? The third argument is that in some cases you find it difficult to take a position in or outside the majority. One of the changes that will be made in the second scroll, of what we are about to see, is that the Election Code is changing so that the upcoming referendum together with the presidential elections cannot be held now. Then how will you vote for or against? These issues must therefore be addressed in a broader context. I am making this statement not so much in defence of the BSP proposal, but to show that the issue is much more planned and needs a much more objective discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u186	Next line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I thank my colleague Stoilov, who himself defined his proposal, that of BSP, as a discussion. Consider, fellow Members, a proposal whose importer says it is a discussion, obviously should not be supported. Secondly, Mr. Stoilov is a lawyer, and I'm surprised he's very supportive. He was also chairman of the Legal Commission of Parliament, but supported a text that contradicts another law. In the Law on referendums, the principle is different. Thirdly, as the text of the BSP is written, it reads: "It is not possible to make choices and vote in a national referendum on the same day. That is, the elections and referendums can never be on the same day. Not on a case, not on a question, even managed to find a topic for which to say whether it is appropriate. The way you wrote this text means never, on any occasion, under any circumstances, a choice and a referendum not to match. And because I know that with BSP there is always a hidden meaning, in this case the hidden meaning is that referendums are not sufficiently involved and are compromised. That's the whole point. I understood you as soon as I saw the importer and the text. The work has become clear. Colleagues, it is important that this text be rejected, because if it is not there, it is possible that the parliament for a referendum can judge, if it is a topic, as Mr. Stoilov said, that it concerns the whole European Union, that it should be sidelined from the elections, that it is a topic on which a separate debate should be held, which enables Parliament to decide that the referendum does not coincide with the elections. But such an approach has nothing to do with the idea that the BSP is now proposing always and on all occasions that referendums and elections should be on different dates. Such an approach is wrong, incorrect and with a clear secret goal that the referendums in Bulgaria should not be representative and their results should not be mandatory. Colleagues, I appeal to you together and strongly to reject this BSP proposal, which one of the importers himself said was debatable. Mr. Stoilov, without being an importer, said it was a discussion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, perhaps the text requires a clarification of whether it is always or never, but in principle this proposal is in the right direction. I'll tell you why I think. After introducing the mandatory vote, there are people here in this House who have made elections once, twice or three times, and others have made them dozens of times. I would like to ask Mr. Dimitrov as a defender of the thesis for dropping this proposal. Does he imagine the difficulty of the electoral process in the participation phase of the majority of voters? I'm picturing it in front of a section. When you have to answer a few questions, how many minutes does it take? How long does it take to respond to the referendum by adding it to them? How is this technologically linked to the mandatory vote as a prerequisite? We assume that in the mandatory vote, people will fulfill this legislative will and will go to vote all. We need to think when we are generally defending a thesis about what it looks like in its application. And in her app, it looks like a nightmare! It seems a nightmare to voters, it seems a nightmare to those who will hold the elections. Here, to some colleagues in their stands, it seems like an abstract political thesis. However, it is not abstract. If I have to summarize this thesis to the previous and to the next in the whole amendment of the Election Code that is being proposed to us today, this is how to get people to vote on legislative, administrative terms. Not how to convince them, not how to voluntarily apply their will, not how to be set on fire by the ideas of a referendum, a question or a political cause, but how to bind them and lead them to the polls. It's this election code today! I will quote Mr. Dimitrov again, since he was the only one who spoke the other way around. There'll probably be other colleagues after me. Because we were afraid of high electoral activity. I will ask the opposite question: why are you afraid of the low electoral activity of referendums held alone? Why? You go and convince people that this issue is vital to them and you make them vote. But because you know you can't do that, you say: "Let the elections be in one." Why does it have to be easy for the voter when it can be difficult? But let it be so difficult for him that it is even impossible for him. " - This is your idea of electoral democracy. We're totally against it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u190	The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u191	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Tsonev, we are not short-lived in this room. Obviously, for you and your colleagues from the DPS, I will have to remind you who sabotaged the Law on referendums and changes last year? If you remember well or hope now that you have heard me, you will remember that there was then a proposal that the threshold for validity would be reduced to 40% of those who participated in the referendum. This was rejected after explicit tyranny by many representatives of the DPS and all kinds of procedural and other catch. There was another proposal that said: "When a referendum was held together with a national type of elections, the result of the referendum is valid, regardless of the number of voters, as long as more than half of them have spoken positively. " Mr. Tsonev, we have reached the absurdity right now in one law to write two different things practically about the same kind of election. If you open the Law on referendums, you will see that for a local referendum, when it is held with local elections, it is valid regardless of the number and activity of the people, as long as more than half of them have voted for......................................................................... However, this is not valid for national choice. There must be minimal activity and representativeness achieved by no less than those who participated in the last parliamentary elections. If this isn't a double standard, what is it?! Once again, this happened mostly because of the obstructions and everything possible, what you did back then from the DPS, in order to ruin these rather good texts, which would have given much greater weight to the civil consultations and referendums. Don't let this room fool you. It's obvious what you did then. The DPS is really afraid of referendums. They said it to each other more than once and then, obviously, and now. You don't recognize and believe that it almost takes away the rights that you have in this room to decide the fates of the people. You don't want them to decide. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u192	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u193	Dear Mr. Tsonev! Once again, if someone did not understand by chance, you support BSP's proposal that a referendum and elections should never be held on the same date, always be on different dates. This is BSP's proposal. Nothing more, nothing less. I repeat: there will never be a match between referendum and elections, always on different dates. I would ask: why do you want to abuse the Bulgarian voters? If the referendum can coincide with the elections and this means an answer to one or two or three more questions, usually, in most cases, the answers to the referendums are with.......................................................................................... For a number of people this means travel, compliance, expenses and so on. Secondly, why are you asking the Bulgarian state, which is barely dealing with the deficit inherited by the Oresharski cabinet, which was above the EU eligible, to pay twice for a referendum once for elections? I couldn't understand your arguments from what you said, Mr. Tsonev. I don't understand why you want us to pay twice for a referendum, a second time for elections? If your constituents now ask you why you want to bring them into transport costs twice and so on, the vote for a number of people means moving, traveling and so on, I am sure that you will find it very difficult to answer this question. After all, I repeat: the BSP's proposal is never, never to have the referendum coincided with the elections. Again: I understand, it is possible, exceptionally, that the referendum could be held separately from the elections, it is possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u194	Third line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u195	Dear Mr. Tsonev, you should not be afraid of high turnout. We have seen that 1 million 400,000 people voted in the NPP referendum. In the last referendum, 30% more voted on almost 2 million Bulgarians. This means that when we make a referendum with another choice, electoral activity is higher, more people participate in the consultation and a more representative sample can be obtained. I agree to accept BSP's proposal only if the thresholds for a referendum are dropped. Let us not have limits and thresholds for validity, let us listen and then we can hold referendums at any time. However, when it is bound by a threshold for validity and electoral activity is key, then I do not see why it bothers you to drop this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u196	Any other MPs? [[National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor for the duplicate.]] I apologize! You have an opportunity for an asshole, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues of the Reformation Block! Mr. Ananiev, it's not us at the DPS who are afraid of high electoral activity, it's you. You fear that it will be low electoral activity if the referendums are not together with other elections. Make sure she's tall. As for what you and your colleague Slavov said about the threshold, how do you overcome the will of voters through representative democracy? Imagine that the Reformation bloc voted for a million and seven hundred thousand so voted for the UDF in a distant time, and you have been given a political task to carry out. A referendum is being made and with 200 thousand this million and seven hundred thousand is crossed out, and with a successful referendum of 100 or 200 thousand, without a threshold, this representative democracy is being deleted, this majority of one million and seven hundred thousand. There must be money between the imposition of a majority through representative democracy and a certain subject must enter through direct democracy. That's why there should be thresholds. I'm not saying that this threshold is fair, but there has to be a threshold, and it has to be close there somewhere. Whether it is we of the DPS who are afraid of the referendums will repeat once again: no, we are not afraid of the referendums, nor are we afraid of spending. We fear that our voters will not be able to vote, because when you order a thousand people, as the average number of voter section, it seems you have never been there during elections, you will see... Ask here the so-called election guys. [[Laughs. A line from the MP Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Okay, the ones who make choices. You will see that this is virtually impossible. They won't be able to vote, believe me. They won't be able to vote! What you're suggesting is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u198	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsonev, it's called a photo of the election day what you wanted to say. Since all the arguments have been heard both for and against, I propose that the debate on this paragraph be terminated in order to save time and, above all, taxpayers' money. There must be pragmatic, quick and clear work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. A reverse opinion? Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am inversely opposed to the termination of the debate on this point. I don't think all the opinions have been heard at all. A proposal aimed at limiting the possibilities for political decision-making on the way to the universal consultation is particularly important and all positions should be heard carefully before we make an informed choice on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov to end the debate under § 2. Vote 131 MPs: 98, against 22, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 138 MPs: 115 against 11, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u203	Mr. Radan Kanev, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u204	Honourable Members, I would like to reschedule this text. I saw that new MPs were entering, and as I look at the character of the majority, I suspect that some of the factions have gone wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u205	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 147 MPs: 119, against 16, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Mr. Kanev has a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u206	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it because in the heated discussion only a few minutes ago, the issue of the Bulgarian political parties' trust towards the Bulgarian political parties was fundamental and we commented whether this trust could be won again by an obligation to vote, and we have just once again carried out one of the ugliest acts of the Bulgarian political elite against the Bulgarian citizens, and it is a legislative change affecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens Adhok, on a specific occasion, contrary to a legal provision, voted very soon with certain express motives. Because everyone in this Chamber, everyone in this vast majority of opposition and government, who supported this text, submitted by the BSP, knows that this is being done on a particular occasion, and that is what the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens know. And precisely because of this type of decision in Bulgaria the confidence of all political parties is ruined because they can gather 150, 180, 200, more than 200 MPs in a coalition every time political parties feel threatened by the voice of the citizens. I voted against it for one more reason. The reason is that if we are going to oppose the referendums there are such arguments, serious arguments against the referendums, we should have the valor to go out and say it: society is not ripe for referendums, nonsense will happen, harmful things will be voted on. Whoever is of this opinion, come out and say it publicly in the eyes of the Bulgarian citizens that he is very pleased to receive their vote in elections in order to take a political position and exercise power, but not their vote when he does not receive personal power. And one more question: why is it mandatory? [[the President signals that time has run out]] When we are chosen, it should be mandatory, and when they decide matters without us, it should not be mandatory. Is there an answer to this question?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u207	Second negative vote? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer for § 2. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 141 MPs: 131, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u208	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u209	Statements? I won't. We vote. [[Noise and lines. Replies from BSP LB.]] Please suspend the vote. Colleagues, we supported Mr. Mikov's proposal, which means that § 2 for changes to the current article. 5 remains to be taken into account by the rapporteur when presenting the texts, the numbering of the paragraphs. To date, we have followed the paragraphs and the correct report should be: the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 3...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u210	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u211	That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u212	I'm counting on the numbering to be checked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u213	Yes, it is true from the Financial texts, but it must be clear that § 2 of Mr. Mikov's proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u214	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u215	We vote. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on § 3 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 127, against 13, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u216	Paragraph 4. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the words "the territory of the country" are divided into "the territory of the country" shall be replaced by "the territory of the country" and "the territory of the country"
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u217	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 3 on the report, which in fact becomes § 4 for changes to art. 7 in the version of the Commission report. We vote. [[Reference between President Tsetska Tsacheva and the rapporteur Mr. Danail Kirilov.]] Hold on, guys, there's an unsupported proposal. Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Noise and lines.]] What's the paragraph? Under § 4, before I erred and put to the vote, I rushed, in the version of the Commission, the debate was closed. Now we go back and we're in voting mode. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is identical with the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs to be dismissed. I put this proposal to a vote which the Commission does not support. [[Reference between President Tsetska Tsacheva and the rapporteur Mr. Danail Kirilov.]] Vote 149 MPs: 114, against 18, abstention 17. It appears that the proposal of the MPs has been accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u218	Madam President, honourable Members! In addition to having colleagues who failed to vote and still entered, I think there was a confusion in whether it was the third or fourth paragraph and some of the colleagues failed to understand. However, fellow Members, the point of this proposal is to enable it to be further defined in the Election Code, the so-called "election area', or "election regions abroad'. If we do not now make this proposal, further and ask for it no longer, we will not be able to create an electoral area or electoral regions abroad and our compatriots abroad will have to continue to vote, as they have voted so far, that is, not for personalities and not with lists, but only for parties and votes to be poured into the national result. I therefore propose that we rethink and really give them the opportunity to vote like all of us in the country and to have an elected area abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u219	I would like to re-vote the proposal of two groups of MPs - the parliamentary groups of DPS and BSP left Bulgaria, respectively, which propose that § 4 be dismissed. We are voting on the proposal of these MPs. Vote 160 MPs: 137, against 18, abstention 5. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] The motion is accepted. Paragraph 4 by importer dropped out. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We say that we want an increase in activity, we invite Bulgarian citizens to vote, we say Bulgarian citizens abroad how important they are to us, but we do not want to have a electoral area abroad. Why? Why should our compatriots in other countries not be able to vote for specific MPs, as is happening in the country? Why can't they vote preferentially, for example? Why can't they choose their MPs? We will introduce and introduce, I hope, although I no longer know... I see a new model in which BSP and DPS offer and GERB supports them. I don't know why this is happening. I don't get it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] This is the second time it's happened. But the question is this. By introducing remote electronic voting, life and health, we will allow Bulgarians abroad to vote. However, they will not be able to vote for specific MPs. That is, their motivation to vote will be much lower. Why are you doing this? I know why BSP and DPS do it, they're clear to me. They don't want any higher activity. The DPS is interested in that vote from Turkey and nothing else. BSP is clear, they do not want any of the Bulgarian compatriots abroad to vote. But I don't understand you, colleagues from GERB. Why not give our countrymen abroad the opportunity to vote remotely electronically and, secondly, to vote for specific individuals to send to parliament and to protect their interests plus the interests of all Bulgarian citizens? This is a model where we increase the desire, the motivation to vote, upload activity and enable our compatriots abroad to have their MPs chosen by them. Why don't you accept this model?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u221	Second negative vote please, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u222	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against this proposal because so far my understanding was that we agreed to have such an area abroad. So it turns out that this consent was a little bit in the other direction. I am also surprised at the DPS colleagues who in the last elections were the first political force abroad, why were they scared of this area abroad? I can't figure out this agreement that we got, where it's gonna lead. I hope it's not up to an election code that's going to cause a lot of trouble in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u223	Third negative vote? In the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u224	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and I call on you, when someone is going to make a negative vote, to get up and to justify why they voted negatively, and not to ask questions as to why others voted differently. It's none of his business! He's not our mentor, he's not our teacher, he's not our moral example, so that we can follow him, and he can teach us what to do. We're all sitting here, we have willpower, we have consciousness, and we can vote the way we want. So I ask you very much: the next time someone comes out here, to argue why they voted against and to take their word if they deviate from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u225	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I will adhere strictly to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Once § 4 has dropped out, there is no way for me to submit the Commission text to an amendment, so report the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u226	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of Parliament to dismiss the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 1 (Commission .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 2 the words "not later than 50 days' shall be replaced by "the 50th day'; "the 50th day' shall be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u227	Statements, coworkers? I won't. The debate is closed. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Mr. Karadaye, I was looking at you because you have an offer. Please, you have the floor. A little faster to react! [[(Radio.) A line from the MP Mustafa Karadaye.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u228	I'm giving up my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u229	According to § 5, there is a proposal by Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs for his dismissal. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u230	Madam President, in order for my colleague Karadaij to be able to calm down and if he decides to take a reply or a separate statement, I specify that the proposal in the paragraph that we are commenting on concerns the restoration of the administrative order of appeal to the governor of the district governor of the mayor's order to determine the selection committees. The regime that we are amending was proposed by colleague Karadayi in the working group, which was led by colleague Maya Manolova. We believe that this order, which he had proposed to appeal to the Regional Election Commission, gave a defect, there was no consistency of deadlines. Therefore, our proposal is to return to the old order of Karadaye's general administrative appeal before the governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u231	- What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Karadayi. You have the opportunity for a personal explanation and a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u232	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity to make a reply to Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, the inappropriate deadlines in our opinion do not cancel the principle of the general supervision of the electoral committees on the election process. This text, which exists in the current Election Code, is derived from the practice and has been repeatedly proposed by the Central Election Commission to various versions of the National Assembly. The practice is as follows, honourable Members. Municipal mayors formed polling stations much earlier before election committees existed. The voters at this time do not follow these orders of the mayors and they are not public, but subsequently, when the electoral committees are already appointed and preliminary electoral lists are announced, voters learn where their addresses are and then start complaints to the respective electoral committees and to the Central Election Commission, but the deadlines have already expired. From this point of view, in our view, the order of appeal to the electoral committees is the right order and this shows the practice. The appeals are received in the electoral committees, but it would be appropriate for the time limits to be in line once the electoral committees have already been set up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u233	Second line? The lines are for Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u234	Madam President, honourable Members! I support the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov because I will give you an example in Kardzhali: because in the Selective Region Kardzhali villages under the 240 Maya Manolova Election Code have become 370, additional sections have to be opened. The mayors of the municipalities refused to comply with the Law and it was so that for a month neither the municipal election commission nor the Central Election Commission could take a decision. Everything was left in the hands of the mayors. They didn't want to comply with the Law. The district governor had absolutely no authority to solve the case. So for a month and a half we have been wandering around in a closed circle, no one can get the mayors to do the work and comply with the Law, and the Central Election Commission held 10 meetings, of which none came up with a solution. I think Mr. Kirilov's proposal is appropriate, and should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u235	This is the importer's offer he defended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u236	Yeah, the importer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u237	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u238	Fellow Members, there was an opportunity to present the two points of view. I suggest you decide by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u239	Do other MPs wish to make a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs - § 5 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. We are voting on the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly. Vote 148 MPs: 37 against 93, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 147 MPs: 39, against 88, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 4 on the Commission report. We vote. 140 MPs voted: 107, against 23, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u240	Proposal from the National Representative Iliya Iliev, Mithat Metin and Alexander Metodiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 is created a new para. 10: In the event of a request accompanied by an EGN and signatures of more than 400 Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights before the mayor of the municipality concerned to create a new section or move an existing section in accordance with their permanent address registration, the mayor is obliged to comply with the request. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u241	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have made this proposal because very often there are complaints from Bulgarian citizens from across the country, especially at an advanced age, people who are difficult to move who cannot afford to go to the polling stations because they are based in places that are quite far from the polling area of residence. We believe that with this change we would encourage more people to go to the polls and give their vote. With the change being made in the Election Code, we aim to increase voter turnout. I think that with the proposal we would contribute to facilitating many Bulgarian citizens and, above all, increasing voter turnout. Four hundred voters are about half of the voters in one polling section. We believe that the will of these Bulgarian citizens, if they really want this, should be heard and it would be good to comply, because ultimately the voter decides whether to go or not to the ballot box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u243	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u244	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to express my disagreement with this proposal. First of all, I would point out that there are many polling stations that include 1,000 citizens in their composition. And give the right to 40%, not more than half, but 40% of the citizens to determine where the polling section should be. [[DRF lines]] ... Please don't speak from the court. ...as in large settlements can be long distances, it is absolutely unacceptable. The law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government clearly states in what cases civil signatures are made and the mixing of a line which is described in the Law on Direct Participation, with order in the Election Code will cause only one mismash. With regard to hard-moving voters, reminding colleagues, the Election Code has long been able to do mobile sections and such are done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u245	Second line? Mr. Iliev, I'd like you to come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u246	Thank you, Madam President. In our proposal we are referring to a minimum of 400 signatures, no one said in the proposal that they could not be more. There could be 500 of them. We can fix it this way. However, we believe that the will of citizens should be heard because we have complaints from many places in the country's territory that polling stations are often based in areas quite far from the electoral area of residence of the citizens themselves. We believe that if this is done, it will be only in the interest of the Bulgarian voter. There is no political motive here and this proposal does not serve any political interests. Colleagues, I'm asking you to make a very logical assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u247	Any other MPs? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, this is another attempt to pass a text with which to carry out the so-called controlled vote, another attempt! That is why we have a principled position. I suppose most MPs here will also express one because they should express a principled position. It's even more cynical when you try to cover up the controlled vote in the form that, you see, people with disabilities wouldn't be able to vote! Dear, you know that from the people with disabilities who are registered, you can never collect 400 people in one section! Just because there aren't that many people in the same section! There are precise and clear statistics in the Central Election Commission, in all the protocols that you can open in the archives of the CEC website to see for yourself, colleagues, how many people who are normally accompanied have voted in such a section. I'll tell you now, so you know. The number of such people according to protocols, as reported and I have observed it from four choices made in a row, is between 16 and 19 people at the most! It is no coincidence that when we voted on the Family Aid Act for children, I said that this is a disinteresting group of people because there is simply no infrastructure to go to the respective polling section! It is for this reason that the mayor, knowing the infrastructure in the municipality, knowing where he has installed facilities for disabled people with wheelchairs to be able to reach the section, should offer such a section that is accessible to all people. And not inaccessible, and the section to be determined by the tyrants of certain marginal groups, as has happened many times and so far continues to happen in practice. That is, to refuse a huge group of voters to go to a place that is practically dangerous to their lives for the simple reason that it is a criminogenic zone, and there to be, you see, by any chance the polling section! Come on now, guess if this isn't a controlled vote in a criminal way! We from the Patriotic Front cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u249	- What's the line? Mr. Mithat Metin, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u250	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Bayraktarov, I can't understand what criminogenic zones and marginal groups you're talking about! Here we are talking about Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian voters. You're making a profoundly wrong suggestion. And I pay attention to you, Madam President, that we should not allow MPs to behave so disrespectfully from this high tribune and insult Bulgarian voters. What we are proposing is a deeply humane and right to self-determination, because in our practice, as politicians on the ground, we have often encountered how a mayor of the municipality decides to move a section just because he does not like how Bulgarian voters vote, whether they are from the centre or not, whether they are from the neighborhood. Then, to punish them, he says: "I will move the section five kilometers away and move it, no one can react. And here, as legislators, we say so: the main part of the electoral corps, in this case, a section, 50% we have taken from the small section, if they wish the section to remain there, no one can tell them to move it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u251	Second line, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Bajraktarov, you started going out on the parliamentary platform as if you were going to the market. You still didn't hear me and you didn't understand maybe, or at least you didn't want to. In our motives, which we have set out, it was not just about people who are disabled, but about elderly people who do not have transport, who live remotely. Or if the mayor has designated the section in a place that is not convenient for these Bulgarian citizens, and if they have expressed their will supposed to more than 400 or 500 people, with their names, signatures and CNN in the petition, this means that they do not agree! Then how is it more logical to comply with the mayor's decision or the voter's will? Of course, with the will of the voter. Our motives are enough is not only what you said. And I ask you very much to listen a little better when there are motives, and to speak more correctly, because you often come out unprepared.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u253	Third line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I fully agree with you. To my agreement, I will also give an example, which is from the elections in the municipality of Avren, the village of Dubravino, because during the consultations with the mayor there are respectively such talks for people who are practitioners, who are going through such negotiations, know that such negotiations are taking place, where the composition and number of sections are to be determined. In Dubravino there are two sections where one is the so-called center, the other is the so-called mahala. It turns out that the two sections must be distributed into the so-called centre. The representative of the DPS says the following: "Okay, Mayor, let's move the section over now! The mayor says to him: "There is no municipal space, we cannot provide such a room, at least there is no electricity in it. " The Mayor says: "How will you provide the electricity?............................................................................................ He says, "Just like that." And that's how he points with his fingers. [[Finger clicks.]] Understand that this thing, no matter how much you put it in another way, to put other shells on it, that older people were distant... I don't know if there's such a populated area as 400 adults, and there isn't a section there. The only ones are 6 to 9 people, and transport is organised and can be transported, there is a corresponding transport there. Understand that not everywhere there are conditions for moving the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u255	You have the opportunity for a duplicate, Mr. Bayraktarov, with respect to all Bulgarian citizens and voters without qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u256	Thank you, Madam President. I thank my colleague Alexandrov for his consent and the addition he made in his reply. My colleague Mithat Metin. Colleague Metin, it is good to read the Constitution well and know that the people's representative has the right to express his opinion freely from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u257	But not to insult!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u258	No offense to anyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u259	There is not a single insulting line or word spoken in my speech. You tried to instill once again, manipulating the Bulgarian citizens that someone was trying to insult them. That's about your line. If you find an insulting line in the transcript, I'll come out and apologize. But you won't. It's your technique from the DPS to insinuate and insinuate someone's guilt all the time. As for Mr. Iliev's line. Mr. Iliev, if you were prepared even one tenth of my training, you wouldn't have an equal. [[Noise and lines.]] But this is just an impossible mission for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u260	Please, no assessments and qualifications for both Bulgarian citizens and MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u261	That's a response to a reply, Madam President. Mr. Iliev, from now on, I will give a wonderful example, which has fortunately already been realized and showed its usefulness. Elections were held in the town of Kyustendil, where, following a decision of the mayor, several such sections were shifted and the results were radically different for the simple reason that the action could not be exercised -- a controlled vote on a huge group of marginal groups, which is controlled precisely by Tartars, who, notice, if I have to go back to the example of colleague Alexandrov, can always submit electricity from private energy. Always! No problem! They know it, they can do this thing! This must be an insult to that huge part of the Bulgarian voters who honestly and respectfully pay both electricity and water, while others, making private energy, steal them in the most unpardonable way. That's what this is about. Therefore, this proposal cannot be supported. It is dangerous to be supported. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u262	First, Mr. Kamen Kostadinov's procedure in the manner of conduct, then for a statement Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u263	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I address to you the reply represents a brief statement within two minutes, in which the replicator disagrees with the main statement of the replicate. Please, when a Member of the National Assembly stands on the stand, who, in the form of a reply, stated in the beginning that he agrees with the speaker, simply take away his floor, because there is no way with the reply procedure to express agreement with the Pre-speaker. There are other ways of speaking and I ask you to follow them, as there is an abuse of a procedure that has a completely different meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u264	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. I share your understanding that the line expresses a point of disagreement with the previous spokesperson. Very often replicating colleagues begin with partial consent and then develop their arguments of disagreement with the speaker. That's why I've been waiting all along to get to the arguments for disagreement with Mr. Alexandrov. You're right. We didn't wait for them. In essence, it was supported by the speech of the speaking MP. Mr. Kazak has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debates on this text and the speeches on the part of the Patriotic Front are clear evidence of how, when there is an effort to guarantee equal rights of Bulgarian citizens, some MPs with more nationalistic attitudes agree that these Bulgarian citizens should be harmed, to be deprived of constitutional rights, but if such restrictions are imposed on their voters, then they would raise a ruckus to heaven as the leader of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria... I am very interested if the mayor of Kozloduy gets the crazy idea to deprive the village of Bhutan from the polling section and to point out that all residents will have to vote in the village of Glozhevo, and if people rise up in the village of Bhutan, how will he react? Or how will another MP from the Patriotic Front react if the mayor of Velingrad gets the crazy idea to deprive the residents of the city of Lujene in Velingrad of the right to have a polling section and send them to vote everyone in the Chepino district, or for a little more interesting aside from Velingrad, for example, in Draginovo, or in Saint Petka? How, then, will this MP react? Would he agree? Wouldn't he support the residents of the Lujene district if with a signature they wanted to return to the section where they live? But when the mayor of Kyustendil municipality not only has this crazy idea, but also realizes it to deprive hundreds of citizens, residents of certain neighborhoods, from their natural right to vote in a section located in their neighborhood, and to make them go all the way to the other end of Kyustendil to vote, and naturally, therefore the turnout of these citizens is low, because many of them do not want to walk to the other end of Kyustendil, he finds this to be the most normal, most democratic, justifying it by making up those for a controlled vote. Honourable Members, if we claim to be Democrats, although I know that fellow Members of the Patriotic Front do not have such claims, but I appeal to the other Members of the National Assembly, if we really believe that all citizens are equal, that they are entitled to equal access, including to the polling stations, and if we consider some mayors of municipalities who deprive hundreds, thousands of their citizens of their right to vote in sections that are accessible from their residence, we must support this proposal. If there is a controlled vote, if there is unlawful practice, they must be sanctioned by the relevant competent authorities. There's police. Here we will assume that there are teams, joint teams of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution. Let them do their job! Not to use these illegal practices as an excuse to deprive Bulgarian citizens of the right to vote in sections that are normally distanced from their address of residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u266	First line, Mr. Dimitar Lazarov, Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u267	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, if we read the Election Code and what we just voted on, and before we had it as a practice, the definition of sections can be appealed and ultimately comes to a decision of the respective administrative court, so that the hypothesis, if someone wants to close the sections in Hicks and concentrate them in just one area, is simply an inappropriate example. Yes, it's also subject to judicial review. Just don't fool our speech, albeit emotionally, the audience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u268	Second line.. Mr. Bayraktarov, third "Julian Angelov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kazak! I hope you understand well how untenable your speech is for a simple reason the mayor of Velingrad could have had, I will try to quote you, a crazy idea only if he was chosen from the list of DPS. [[Noise and lines.]] Fortunately, however, in Velingrad's history, there has never been a elected mayor from the DPS. [[DPS lines.]] As far as the Lujene district is concerned, all sections of the Lujene district are located in schools, i.e. they are equally accessible to all voters. It's a practice that's been imposed for years, and it's because I've worked hard for it myself. [[Radio.]] At the very least, the kind of people you pretend to be educated about, at least learn in elections where the road to school is, which is a good thing. But I will give an idea to the current mayor, who is my classmate, my friend, a very good boy, a clever, veterinarian. [[Noise and lines.]] It is supported by the Patriotic Front, elected by GERB, but is supported, I say, and I am helping it so far. I will give him a good idea: to organize during the elections and a kind of walk in the offices of the schools to know what subjects are studied, to pay particular attention to the office of Bulgarian language and literature, the office of history. That would be very helpful. Your speech is absolutely untenable and not subject to, I think, more of a comment. Oh, about democracy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u270	It's been a while! The two minutes have passed, Mr. Bayraktarov! Mr. Julian Angelov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u271	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kazak, you and your statement contradict each other. You say that these problems and bad practices should be solved by the institutions and not by the legislator, only for 26 years we see that the institutions do not solve these problems related to the sections, that is, it is high time for the legislator to do so so that the problems with these bad practices that are happening, as it was, and in sections in different municipal centres or district centres, where the sections are taken out of such places where we know what is happening and it is documented both with photos and with movies and with absolutely everything. But, thank God, Mr. Kazak, thank God, most of the voters you claim have found out in the last local elections that what you speak and do is not right. And for this reason, in Ludogorie or as you say to him, you have been thrown out of the local government and people say, and the people you rely on to vote for you say the following: [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u272	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u273	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dr. Kardzhaliev, some speeches really deserve that you wave your hand at them and smile at them, but still the serious lines must be answered. Why should we, when it is clear that certain powers are being abused by some mayors, try to use the method of prevention, Dr. Kardzhaliev, precisely to prevent the possibility of such crazy acts that we have already witnessed in practice? To prevent them, not wait for someone to appeal afterwards. Now you have accepted the appeal to no longer be before the municipal or regional electoral commission, but first before the district governor, then before the court. By the time it gets to the time the court decides, the election will have passed and the people won't be able to vote. As far as other arguments are concerned, Velingrad is a very nice city, only I, as far as I know, not only in Velingrad, but in most of the country's settlements are usually in schools, so that you claim some originality and exclusivity for contributing the sections in Velingrad to be in schools, seem very ridiculous. [[Heckling]] But I am convinced that, after all, if there is ever a mayor of Velingrad from the Patriotic Front, he may have such crazy ideas, because the mayor of Kyustendil, fortunately is not and can never be from the DPS, he was from the SDS, then from GERB. From all his actions and speeches, however, it is evident that nationalist ideas are the closest to his heart. So you can take it absolutely as your own. You won't make much of a mistake. [[Heckling]] Exactly. I'm convinced because he acts just like your mayor. Because if a monument of UNESCO culture in Kyustendil collapses, it will be the first to raise a banquet there instead of doing something else, I am convinced. And in the end, because you also mentioned the influence of the DPS in Deliormana, the influence of the DPS in Deliormana, do not worry, Mr. Angelov, it is there and will be there. However, I can't remember how many mayors of municipalities IMRO has. Remind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u274	Any other MPs for a statement? Here you are, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u275	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I had no intention of taking the floor and speaking, but from Mr. Bajraktarov's speech I was provoked in his part for the mayor of Kyustendil and to tell you: when we discussed our proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we motivated the proposal that we are commenting on at the moment, precisely led by the first experience, which the mayor of Kyustendil applied in the local elections and forced more than 5000 people to vote at a distance of more than 5 km, because it is so convenient for him and, you see, to guarantee his mandate as city chief. I, in turn, join Mr. Kazak, and I am glad that he (the mayor) cannot in any way be sympathetic to the ideas of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and let him continue to be mayor, closer to you than to democratic society, but I am asking myself another question: if you are holding and saying that things should be done in the right order and that this is a controlled vote, I ask the following: why in Legal Committee do you not support a real proposal in this direction?The proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which has been rejected, for the installation of cameras in the sections, in front of sections and in such a way that you do not violate the secret of the vote? Because whoever claims that the vote is manipulated before the election, before entering the section, is not a real electoral. You should know that the main glitches and violations occur inside the sections when manipulating the protocols. The proposal of the DPS was exactly such that we would come later to this text to install cameras that would be online and every voter would be able to observe what was happening inside the sections. If you accept this proposal, then our proposal, which we are currently commenting on about the sections, will be nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u276	- What's the line? I won't. Personal explanation Mr. Bayraktarov. As we are going, colleagues, not only Tuesday overtime, but so far we have been successful on Monday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Metin, I wouldn't have asked for a personal explanation procedure if you hadn't allowed yourself once again to attempt rough manipulation. This isn't helping you! It does not help you for a simple reason that even small children, unfortunately, already know that these people make up a signature, first of all, that certain cupcakes hold the debit cards [[blowing noise and lines from DPS]] through which they receive social benefits.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u278	Mr. Bajraktarov, in a personal explanation you must state what you felt affected by Mr. Metin's statement. He didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u279	I felt affected by yet another attempt at manipulation and untruths expressed in an abundant amount by colleague Metin, because, again, when you hold the social welfare debit cards... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u280	He was talking about video surveillance and cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u281	...there's no way this isn't called a controlled vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u282	Any other speeches? Mr. Karadayi, after him Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Listening to the debate on the proposed proposal, we realized that the mandatory vote adopted just now, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, is a mandatory vote according to the understanding of some MPs, but not so far, still misunderstanding or disreputing the existence of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Something else, too, we have found out, yes, polling stations can be formed soon enough when voters are not excited about elections, and they can appeal to the district governor and the court, which is within a certain deadline, but when the election topics are up to date and voters start to appeal them, and they are looking for the respective election committees, they are not entitled to appeal them there. From this point of view now, at the moment, we will not give the voters the right and opportunity to try and correct any, say, inaccuracies in the actions of the municipal administration. But there was a resonant in one of the proposals: 400 voters. Perhaps nailed an exact number is the right number because this Election Code allows 30 voters to form sections, the maximum is 1000. From this point of view, I am currently proposing that the proposal should come at least 50% of the voters of the section concerned, and for the creation of a new section the signature should contain a sufficient number of signatures of citizens for the formation of a new section. Those are my two suggestions. The text should sound as follows: In the event of a request accompanied by an EGN and signatures of more than 50% of the voters of the section, before the mayor of the municipality concerned to move the existing section, or a sufficient number of signatures of citizens to form a new section in accordance with their permanent address, the mayor is obliged to submit the request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u284	Dear Mr Karadayi, the proposal of the MPs from your parliamentary group is to create a new para. 10 which is not supported by the Commission. There is no proposal on the report for editing this text, and in plenary editorial proposals for amendment and supplement can only be made on the Commission's proposal. You are essentially making a partial alternative proposal for what colleagues have done, but this could have happened between the first and second votes before the Commission debated it in this House, which is why your request is unacceptable and I will not put it to the vote. Any other MPs? Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, excuse me, mate. There were lines, but I said that wasn't admissible. Is that what you're gonna say? Here you go. The line has Mr. Svilen Ivanov, then I announced Mr. Emil Dimitrov, who is waiting for his turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I am sorry, but the pace at which we are going, at 32 hours of the Commission, I do not know in plenary how many days do we have to look at the Election Code?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u286	Is that why you got a line, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u287	No. [[Noise and lines.]] I wanted to remind Mr. Karadayi where the sections were created. Don't miss the deadlines, I think it's more the party's duty than the voters'. When you found out that Kyustendil had a five-mile drive to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u288	He didn't talk about Kyustendil, so you can't replicate it that way. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u289	He understands what I'm saying. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] It's your duty. Don't explain it couldn't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u290	Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u291	I'm sorry, Madam President. Thanks for understanding. Just a reminder. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, there is a Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, there are also laws adopted. Some of the texts, although not within the framework of the Constitution...................... are not within the framework of the Constitution................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u292	The word for speech is Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank the chairman of today's sitting because he explained that some proposals are being made on time, not who when he remembers. The debate got very sharp, politicized, and they started attacking, which would not be right when we accept a Code that applies not now, but also to those who follow us. We started from this, could we open up an election section to every bed, because someone likes it, and then we started from 30 and we got to 400 people, or half of the voters. Let us remember that there are 12 thousand in Bulgaria. 500 sections. They have been evenly distributed over many, many years and many, many elections and in fact some great need, apart from the displacement of 3 sections, has not happened over the years. Agree that any Bulgarian citizen may want the shop in which he shopes to be down on the first floor, but can not be so in all settlements. He goes to the store to shop every day. Agree that every Bulgarian citizen takes his child to school every day, and now we say that if he has to go to that same school on Sunday to vote, it will be an extremely big problem, will make it very difficult and will create irresistible obstacles for him to exercise his original right. He has the right to vote, he has the right to go to the store and he does it, he has the right to bring his child to kindergarten or school, and they are usually in the administrative center, next to the municipality, to the community center, and that's where the sections are. It wouldn't be such a big problem if on one of the weekends they were exercising their right to vote right where they went every day, they were shopping every day, taking their children to school or kindergarten. Moreover, let us not miss the important fact that there are mobile polling stations. When requested on time, they also serve this problem. Why now do we have to rewrite and start from the beginning the creation of a Code that has already worked for so many years?! And the precedent with one, two, three mayors somewhere where someone had decided, there's still a court for this job. We don't need to rewrite and make new rules now. Maybe it's better to move on to a vote, not to look for an excuse to fight with each other just to make someone's impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u294	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u295	Mr. Dimitrov, I fully share your position that we should not have dealt with such comprehensive changes in the Election Code at all, but only concentrate on those of them who have shown defects. Whatever. The basis for our proposal is precisely these illegal practices of some mayors. You know the saying that the bad example is contagious. If they are not crossed in time with legislative measures, we risk being accepted by other mayors and becoming a broad practice. That's what we're trying to cross with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u296	Second line? I won't. Are you going to use a hole? No. Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u297	Dear colleagues, we are impressed that in this Law as well as in many others, your tézi, gentlemen of the Patriotic Front, to a large extent, but not only yours, but also of different parties, create divisions between people. That's what you do on purpose. There is a mood between some people and other people in Bulgaria because this is how a vote is won. A voter wins. I do not accept such an attitude to any issue, including in this particular case. When a prevention can be done and avoid an injustice, an option is sought to give justice, for example through the position of the Administrative Court, an appeal before the district governor. All this arises, colleagues, from the feeling of certain people that they feel more equal than others. It's no coincidence that there are videos in the public domain that imitate this kind of policy. Am I equal to you? Are you more equal to me? Colleagues, I propose on such important issues, but not only to this Law, but to all other laws, to approach from a point of view what the truth is and how we can help the voter, and not how to divide it and how to then politically consume this product. Because by dividing people, we politicians are trying to consume a certain political product in our favor. I do not think that this is how Parliament is useful to the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u298	- What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Karakachanov. Colleagues, because the dispute is heated, the last part of the proposal from our colleagues from the DPS reads: "The Mayor is obliged to comply with the request. "
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u299	My line to the speaker is this: not the Patriotic Front is the formation that separates people. On the contrary, we talk about how should be removed from the practice in Bulgaria the bought, the corporate vote, the Native American vote, which has become a practice in Bulgaria over the past 20 years. It is these formations that create similar practices and sometimes regulate them through laws, divide citizens, because one gets some benefit and the other vote for some ideas. This is the division, not by wanting to bring order and eliminate all possibilities for corruption practices. That was our idea for the mandatory vote, and that is also the idea for this member of the importers, which we will support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u300	Are you going to use a hole? No. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u301	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a maximum extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second readings under the IDE of the Administrative Procedure Code, No 654-01-37, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-21.u302	A counteroffer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal for a maximum possible increase in the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. They voted 137 MPs: 135 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Are there others willing to take up the proposal for a new para? In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Nine? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Iliya Iliev, Mithat Metin and Alexander Metodiev in art. 9 to create a new para. 10 with the edit, reported to us by Mrs. Alexandrova. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 156 MPs: 28 against 98, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, here we will put an end to today's plenary session. Tomorrow we continue with § 6 on the Commission report. Due to the expiry of the prescribed time, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow's regular meeting, starting time 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
