ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 9 to 11 March 2016. 1. Termination of the powers of a member of the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. An Apostol Dimitrov resigned from the commission. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs; a second draft Law of Stanislav Stanilov; a third draft by Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs; a fourth draft by Lutvi Mestan, Mustafa Karadayi and Aliosman Imamov; the next draft is by the Council of Ministers; there is another Law by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. 3. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014. Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. Participants: Volen Siderov and a group of MPs; the second one of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs; the third one of Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs; the fourth one of Georgi Kadiev; the fifth one of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; the sixth one of Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; the tenth one of Natimir Ananiev and a group of MPs; the eighth one of Miho Mihov and a group of MPs; the ninth one of Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs; the tenth one of Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; the eleventh one of Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs; twelveth of Dimitar Delchev and a group of national representatives; the thirteen of Ts of Tsvetan Tsanov and a group of MPs; the last one of the last, fourteenth of the Law was submitted at the time by Mrs. This is intended to be point one for tomorrow, Thursday 10 March 2016. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Bankruptcy Act. Importers Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov First Draft; Second Draft with importers Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov, Georgi Kovachev, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. This will be the first point for Friday, 11 March 2016. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We vote. Vote 156 MPs: 142, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure received a proposal from the MPs Mrs. Boyka Marinska and Mr. Dimitar Delchev for inclusion in the weekly programme of the first vote of the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Administration, No 554-01-8, submitted by Ms. Marinska and a group of MPs. Who's gonna protect the Project? Here you are, Mrs. Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u2	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administration was submitted more than a year ago. He has passed the first vote in the Legal Committee and has submitted a report to the National Assembly. The law concerns the introduction of a requirement for compulsory higher education, a Master's degree, for certain positions in the higher administration, such as the district governors, the deputy governors, the chiefs of agencies, the deputy ministers, that is, positions that are not elected or appointed or elected by the National Assembly. I consider it illogical and unwarranted to have a requirement to hold a higher education with a Master's degree for employees in a particular administration and not to have one for managers. I believe that it is therefore time for the bill to enter for the first vote in this House in order to restore this justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. I put to the vote the proposal to include the Bill in the weekly programme. Vote 149 MPs: 45 against 3, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal is from Mr. Georgi Gokov, MP from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. He proposes to include as a point the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted on 14 October 2015 by Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. Colleagues, this proposal is inadmissible because the same proposal was made on 24 February, it is also rejected under art. 50, para. The 3th sentence of our Rules of Procedure may be submitted no earlier than the expiry of a month, that is, after 24 March, Mr. Gokov, we expect you to make such a proposal. A few messages. First, regarding bills and draft decisions for the time from 2 to 8 March 2016. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers: Plamen Yordanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead. The Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will also see it. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will also see it. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Project for a solution for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University, Pleven. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Health. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Methodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 7 March 2016 in the National Assembly with IC. No 627-00-2 received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Iliya Yankov Iliev. The same was done in pre-trial proceedings 299 of 2012, according to the inventory of the institution concerned, file 12 995 of 2015 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for a crime committed by him within the meaning of art. 203, para 1, in conjunction with art. 201, in conjunction with Art. 26, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 20, para. 4 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 7 March 2016, I informed the National Representative Iliya Yankov Iliev of the proposal received and the opportunity to get acquainted with it and the attached materials. By application of 9 March 2016, the People's Representative Iliya Yankov Iliev informed me that he agreed to arouse prosecution against him at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By my letter, I have informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Iliya Iliev to arouse prosecution against him at the request, by applying a certified copy of the application. The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2015 and in 2015. (preliminary data), labour productivity, employed persons and spent time in the fourth quarter of the This appropriation is The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move to point one of the weekly programme we have adopted: THE TERMINATION OF A COMMISSION MEMBER FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENCE OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY. By letter No 620-005 of 2 March 2016 to the President of the National Assembly, an application was received from Apostol Ivanov Dimitrov, Member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The letter states: "Dear Madam President, I would like to be dismissed from my post as a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. On the occasion of the letter, I suggest to your attention a service project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the powers of a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 7, p. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army HAS DECIDED Ends the powers of Apostol Ivanov Dimitrov as a member of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 151 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u4	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask for an extension of the deadline for submitting proposals under the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 554-01-182 from 27 November 2015, to two weeks, or a deadline of 23 March 2016. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u5	I don't hear anything, Mrs. Yordanova. What law is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u6	ZID of the C.F.R.S. Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u7	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 133 MPs: 127, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES FOR THE CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACADEEMIC COMPOSITION IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Report from the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u8	Madam President, before the report, I would like to make a procedure for admission to the House of Prof. Mr. Denkov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u9	Guys, the noise in the hall is so loud! I didn't hear Mrs. Yordanova now, I don't hear what it's about, what to say about the colleagues who are in the back row of the House. Quiet, please. Repeat the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u10	I'd like to request a procedure for admission to the professor's room. Deputy Minister of Education and Science, second and third points.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u11	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 124 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u12	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on: - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Chambers in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-67, submitted by Svetla Marinova Bachvarova (Piralkova) and a group of MPs on 18 December 2014; - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Todorov Stanilov on 19 December 2014; - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-70, submitted by Borislav Lyubenov Velikov and a group of MPs on 19 December 2014; - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-44, submitted by Lutvi Ahmed Mestan and a group of MPs on 6 March 2015; - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2015; - Draft Law amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-121, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 24 June 2015. At its regular meeting held on 17 February, In 2016, the Committee on Education and Science examined the above bills. The meeting was attended by Meglena Kuneva, Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," prof. Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Rectors of Higher Schools and Directors of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, representatives of trade union, student and civil society organizations. Deputy Minister of Education and Science Nikolay Denkov presented on behalf of the importers Draft No 502-01-36. It contains two key points that are linked to each other. The first is the requirement to create minimum requirements for the acquisition of academic degrees and degrees, and these requirements must be tailored to the specifics of each professional and scientific direction. The second key position relates to the establishment of a national register containing full information on the achievements of the academic staff. Only persons covering the minimum requirements will be included in the register, therefore only they will be able to participate in the scientific jury, which will solve the main problem of the quality of competitions held in recent years. National Representative Stanislav Stanilov presented Draft No 454-01-68. He introduced mechanisms for arbitration and appellation of academic procedures, as well as uniform state requirements and national control for their compliance. The so-called National List of Committees on Scientific Fields and in professional fields is restored. The Constitutional Court's recommendation to inform the international scientific community of the procedures in Bulgaria in the languages traditionally used in the respective directions and the order by which the materials of the procedures must be published on the Internet is realized. National Representative Milen Mihov presented Draft No 554-01-121. It proposes that the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency should assume the function of a National Centre for Coordination and Control of Procedures, and that the unsuccessful system of selection and composition of the jury should be corrected by creating a new mechanism whereby members of the jury are randomly appointed. Draft No 454-01-67 was presented by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov and Draft No 454-01-70 by the National Representative Borislav Veliev. The two bills are in defence of these scientists and lecturers who complete work on their dissertations, but for objective reasons they have not had the opportunity to acquire an educational and scientific degree Draft Law No 554-01-44 was presented by the MP Petar Chobanov. It fills in a gap in the current law which has failed to provide for an institution and order for issuing duplicates of lost, damaged or destroyed documents, which puts citizens unable to prove the scientific degrees and titles acquired before 2010. The discussion included MPs Mariana Todorova, Stanislav Stanilov, Borislav Velikov, Milen Mihov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Valeri Jablyanov, Stefan Zhelev and Milena Damyanova. The present representatives of the academic community supported the need to introduce enhanced control and to adopt mandatory minimum state requirements, taking into account the specific needs of each professional direction. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science stressed that the application of naucometric indicators does not in any way alter the requirements to assess the real scientific contributions to the rule that similar in scientific qualifications should evaluate similar and active scientists evaluate active scientists. After the discussion was concluded and the Committee on Education and Science held a vote: - with 15 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-67, submitted by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs; - with 16 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 vote abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-68, submitted by Stanislav Stanilov; - with 15 votes in favour, without the opposition and 2 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 454-01-70, submitted by Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs; - with 13 votes in favour, without the opposition and 4 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-44, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs; - with 16 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers; - with 16 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-21, submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. We move on to the presentation of individual bills. First is the bill submitted by Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. You're welcome, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that lasting practice in the National Assembly is when the co-owners of a bill are to three MPs, to read the names of all three. When there are more than three, then it is called the first and then a group of MPs. Simply pay attention when billing is presented, and you, when presenting submitted bills, for this circumstance: when there are three MPs, the names of all three are read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u15	Mr. Kazak, there is no explicit norm.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u16	But that's the practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u17	I will check whether the practice of the National Assembly is consistent with what you propose, and if this circumstance is established, I will adhere strictly to the practice, if any. Now we're listening to Mrs. Mariana Boyadjieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill, which was submitted by MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and was related to the fact that the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted in 2010. In the Transitional and Final Rules in it was introduced the rule for the reassignment of the step assistants, chief assistants and scientific assistants of the position. The Law provided that if, within four years of its entry into force, these persons did not acquire an educational and scientific degree of doctor, they were reassigned to the lower academic position of the assistant. At the end of 2014, when we introduced our Bill, this rule concerned nearly 7,000 scientific staff. At the same time, the envisaged and necessary regulations were adopted with a very high delay. In practice, this reduced the prescribed deadline and created obstacles and prerequisites for the large majority of individuals to organise and manage to finalise the overall, as a rule a sufficiently long process of acquiring a scientific degree. In view of this, we have proposed in the Draft Law the Committee on Education and Science, extending the term in § 5, para. Five by two years. However, the great delay in examining our Bill, the lack of opinion from the Ministry of Education and Science, led to the reassignment of the majority of these scientific staff and, in practice, they were damaged by the lack of change in the Law. The Bill proposed by the Council of Ministers now allows § 27 to create a new para. 6, the term under para. 5 to stop running for the time during which the persons under para. 4 t. 2 take leave for pregnancy, birth and adoption, to raise a young child, in case of death or serious illness of a parent under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 163, 165, 167 and 167a of the Labour Code. This is an opportunity to solve the problem, but once again I would like to stress the great delay which, in practice, does not protect, but on the contrary, it was to the detriment of the interests of the scientific staff for which we actually submitted our bill in December 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. We will now hear the presentation of the second draft bill submitted, and it belongs to Mr. Stanislav Stanilov. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u20	My fellow Members, I will not bore you with the whole draft text by text. I will refer to several important points that aim to improve the previous Bill adopted by the Forty-First National Assembly. In my bill, the main clauses for improving the state of the academic staff are, firstly, a Commission on Appeals, which will have the last word as the final instance for verifying procedures, and most importantly, a check of the essence of the contest. Under the current Law, an examination of the essence of the competition can only be made on a proposal from someone affected by the competition and in the court. All over the world, the court doesn't know who's a scientist or who isn't. That's what reviews on purpose-made committees, judges and so on. Therefore, I propose the establishment of the Committee on Appeals to the Council of Ministers, although it may also be to the Ministry of Education and Science, which, on a basic basis, by temporary three-member committees, can consider all the appeals that take place there. This will improve control and this carefree swarm of docents, professors and chief assistants, as it is now, will be limited. The second point I would like to address is the problem with plagiarism. In two clauses, I propose sharp, firm measures against plagiarism. First, even under a direct evaluation of plagiarism, I suggest that the plagiarist should be taken away from his academic position and that he should no longer be allowed to join the academic staff. Plagiarism is a world disease. In all European countries, plagiarism is a scourge in all modern countries. Such problems arise in scientific space all the time. Colleagues from abroad are struggling with it with the most extreme measures. Here I will not list Germany and Austria, because I work mainly with scientists from Austria and Germany, what are the measures and how colleagues deal with it. We don't have the ability to fight plagiarism so far. Now, with the introduction of these clauses, I hope that we will have serious success in this regard. There are other things I've been paying attention to. At most, the main points of the submitted bills coincide with certain options. This is Deputy Minister Denkov. We have talked to him and Milen Mihov about the fact that we can unite the main legislation tabled and resolve the issue, introduce new measures. I'll say one more thing in the end. In my bill, I propose that the word "Journals" be replaced by the word "Commission" because the word "Journals" in the Bulgarian language is a foreign word. Not just that. It applies mainly to spheres of art. Science has adopted a commission. It was accepted by the Liberation of Bulgaria since the creation of Bulgarian science. The word "Commission" has an old Bulgarian origin of "comtes," committ, comita" which means an administrative unit, and on this basis a group of people who exercise control, power and so on. So I suggest we replace this word in the vocabulary of the Law. I call on you to vote on this Law, in which there is no policy, but there is a lot of ideology, a lot of theory. I believe and I am convinced that you will take this seriously and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u21	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. We will be presented with the third Bill of Mr. Velikov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u22	Thank you, Madam President. With nine other colleagues "Boyka Marinska," Milena Damyanova, Krasimira Anastasova, Cornelia Marinova, Mariana Todorova, Snezhana Dukova, Irena Kotseva, Galya Zaharieva and Stefani Mihailova we have introduced this bill. It is very similar to what colleagues Bachvarova and Boyadjieva said. It relates to the fact that, according to the provision of § 5, para. 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria academic persons as chief and senior assistant, research assistant I and II, who had not defended a doctoral thesis, had the opportunity to do so for a four-year term, but failed in many cases for objective reasons. We have responded to the request of a number of rectors for those who, at that time, at the end of 2014, had no opportunity to defend the educational and scientific degree of the Doctor for objective and, in some cases, subjective reasons. We know that the period of the individual or regular form of training of PhD students is up to three years. We haven't been able to defend a doctor's thesis in three years, even in four years, when we have an incomplete or remote form. It is obvious that the deadline could be extended. This is what we have proposed by one year, unlike colleagues Svetla Bachvarova and others who offer by two years. It turns out that at least theirs has not yet expired as a deadline. In a sense, the two bills are the same. In the Commission, it was felt right in my view that my colleagues and I should support both our Bill and theirs, because they were actually developed more fully in the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Education and Science, but it is important to bear in mind that our legislative initiative was in response to unresolved public relations at that time. I hope for the support of all my colleagues. Without speaking on the other bills, I think that everyone should be supported, as after their unification they will allow for significant positive changes in the growth of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u23	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. The next bill is from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mustafa Karadayi and Aliosman Imamov. He'll be represented by Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria, in § 5, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions annul the Law on Scientific Grades and Scientific Awards. In para. 2 of the same paragraph it is said that all rights of persons such as payment and advantage for participation in competitions and other relating to scientific degrees and scientific titles acquired under the terms and under the repealed Law on Scientific Grades and Scientific Awards shall be maintained. However, the Law on the Development of the Academic Board does not provide for a procedure in which duplicates are to be issued for the verification of diplomas and certificates acquired under the repealed law. The issue of these documents was in the power of the closed Supreme Testimonial Commission. For this reason, there is currently no institution and order to issue duplicates of lost, damaged or destroyed documents, which makes citizens unable to prove the scientific degrees and titles acquired before 2010. Madam President, honourable Members, the draft proposed by us removes this inability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The bill of the Council of Ministers will be presented to us by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mr. Nikolay Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. There are two very important elements in the Law of the Council of Ministers. One is to have national requirements for each academic position and degree. They shall take into account the relevant professional directions. The second element is related to the creation of the so-called........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This solves several problems accumulated in recent years. Regarding the general spirit of the Law, he agrees with the other bills, as they are all caused by the care for solving the accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u27	Thank you. The last bill is from the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We share everything that colleagues from other groups and the Ministry shared. I would like to say a few words about the assessment of the current Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. We do not accept his praise as the best, the most perfect and the most successful. We also do not accept the branding and rejection of the entire Law. He has had his positives, and his action for almost six years has shown good results. They can be sought and manifested in strengthening the autonomy of scientific institutions and in building a dynamic free environment for the development of academic staff. In addition, some significant negative aspects have emerged in the application of this Law. The expression of Professors became popular. People grow in the scientific career, not meeting the standards, requirements and public prestige of the Bulgarian scientist. There are therefore objective and subjective reasons. The objective reasons are rooted in the fact that the entry of the Law radically changed the existing regulatory and legal framework in this area. It blocks procedures for a long period of time, if you remember. This has created a build-up of candidates who naturally have come their way. Another essential objective reason.. and we are obliged to say it is that dynamic and rapid growth in the scientific career is related to the acquisition of better pay for researchers and lecturers in universities. This incentive to improve pay through a scientific career is natural. However, under the conditions of low funding of higher education and hence low salaries of our teachers, it creates serious social and economic pressure to cross moral barriers in the implementation of these procedures and of scientific growth. I will allow myself to quote a young colleague of ours who, in a public discussion, may have made the most accurate diagnosis of the problem. He said: "How can we combine freedom in science, freedom of career development, freedom of scientific search with the moral deficit in science? " He, unfortunately, does not concern the Constitution and legislative activity, but is an honest diagnosis of the condition of some of our colleagues from the academic and professional community. In short, I'll tell you what we're offering. We believe that two are the main problems that need to be solved with our Bill. The first is the establishment of a National Coordination and Control Centre for the implementation of procedures. In our project this refers to the establishment of a permanent committee of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. The second major problem is the poorly regulated way of selecting the composition of the jury. I use that term even though I share the opinion of my colleague Stanilov. So far, it's legal. The procedure for the establishment of the scientific jury or jury shall put into one initiative for the procedure and the procedural composition of the jury. At the time of the departure of a procedure for taking up an academic position or a degree, both the initiation of the procedure and the composition of the jury shall be determined by the same unit. This is most often the department. This combination of these two very important moments in the procedure the initiation and formation of the jury's team, the committee that should evaluate, creates the opportunity to actually create a jury in its own image and likeness. We therefore propose that at least the external members of the jury be selected on a random basis according to a specific procedure. Thirdly, we propose to be an established classification of the scientific fields, of the scientific specialities. Similar ideas are found in the Law of the Ministry of Education and Science, which clearly gives a picture of which specialist in which field has contributions, who in what specialty can be a member of a jury. Thank you for your attention and appeal to support the bills presented to your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. I'm opening the debates on the six bills on the second point of our program. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I hope that today in this House we will establish the consensus approach that we have imposed in the Commission and support all the bills, because they are all working towards overcoming the imperfections that are present in the current Academic Development Act. Of course, the most fundamental and fullest of content is the bill proposed by the Ministry of Education, insofar as it answers most of the problems that arose as a result of the adoption of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board. The assessment of the Law cannot be unambiguous because it allowed to facilitate the procedure for acquiring the degree of Doctor and the "Doctor" posts and the "Professor" positions, but also through some outstanding legal norms it allowed certain abuse of the acquisition of these degrees and positions. It is known to all fellow Members that the notion of "academic freedom' is not cumulative and can be used in different ways, to be interpreted in different ways. The country raised doubts as to whether all doctors, professors and docs had the same weight and met the same criteria. I welcome what is proposed by the Ministry because, in order for these doubts to disappear, it is necessary to introduce minimum requirements that are proposed through this Bill and to apply them both to eligibility criteria, to competitions and to criteria for the formation of the scientific jury. With these plays it is cleared and solved a fundamental problem. The next essential element is the register that is needed. We owe it to the whole society to have visibility and publicity what is the academic staff of Bulgaria. I think with these amendments the Law will be much more working, we will overcome the deficits that were created six years ago. The other accents we look at in the other five bills, although different, also work in the same direction, with one philosophy to overcome other problems. Although there are different shades, I think we should accept them because they give us the opportunity to open up a field of discussion, improve and clear all other mechanisms. In what we're being offered by Professor. Bachvarova and Assoc. Velikov in the Bill, which I am also an importer, examines the grace period for the chief assistants who do not have a doctoral title in order to be able to compensate over time for the lack of this work, to write it down and to maintain their position as chief assistants. Of course, this period cannot be postponed to infinity, as it must have a mobilization effect, so that these people finally make an effort and protect. It's nice to have four, five or six years of relaxation to make up for that time. It is also necessary, of course, to have a mechanism for issuing duplicates to verify obtained diplomas, as the Supreme Test Commission (VAC) has previously done so, and now there is none. It's quite interesting, Professor. Stanilov for a mechanism for arbitration and appellation of academic procedures. This is a return to the production of the Supreme Testimonial Commission. Through discussions, we will decide whether it is appropriate to set up one such committee, whether it should look at cases from here on in defence, or whether it should review back all acquired degrees and positions. That's a little controversial, but it's open for discussion. It is important that the competition documentation is located on the Internet for five years. This will ensure more transparency of the acquired degrees and positions. It is also very important to discuss the problem of plagiarism. Indeed, as has been said, this has acquired the size of an epidemic and we must fight it. It's an interesting idea of Assoc. Mihov for a permanent committee for the development of the academic staff, which is some kind of arbitrator and for the Accreditation Board. Indeed, we can benefit from a discussion on all the bills, make a much better, more argumentated and working law, and find the most faithful solutions how from now on the academic community and the whole society to function under objective and good rules. I call on us to adopt all the laws and finally draw up a good and working bill for the development of the academic staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u32	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, a few years ago, when the current Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber was adopted, I believe, something like a revolution was done, as it interrupted a practice related to the administration of this process. This Law was passed very positively by colleagues from the academic community and such laws actually exist in a number of European countries that are very far ahead in education and science. So in terms of legislation, I dare say that we are getting close to them. Of course, some problems have arisen over the years. In my opinion, wrong conclusions have been drawn from isolated cases and it is considered that the current Law is not good, but in the end, our academic community still does not have the necessary tradition to use one such law, which gives relative freedom to disclose procedures. As a result of the problems that have arisen, of course, have been tabled, as we have heard, several bills that are aimed at eliminating these problems. I welcome the introduction of these bills, as clearing the procedures, clearing the work of the committees will contribute to greater security in the academic staff. What is he looking for or what should he find in a law a colleague, a person who wants to acquire a degree or university rank? The first thing, these are the requirements to be met by what is asked of him. If he finds it, the law is good. The second thing, this is the technology in which this can be achieved. In the current Law, the technology is clearly outlined: The Scientific Council proposes a procedure, it goes, jury is elected, I say it very briefly, the jury completes its work and offers the Scientific Council to be elected or unelected the candidate concerned. The technology is simplified and, as a result of this simplification, I think, fewer errors can be made. The proposed bills are generally united in removing some shortcomings in the formation of the jury, its composition and the people who should be in it. That's how I'd unite them as projects. I guess that's where the problems are in the current law. I don't want to comment on them. I suppose there will be more debates in the Committee on Education, and I hope that these things will be clarified and the Commission will come up with a single opinion. I therefore welcome these proposals and call on you to adopt the proposed bills at first reading, because, once again, they will also give the necessary security to the academic staff in their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev. Mr. Stankov, after him, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u34	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I have been very carefully acquainted with the proposed six bills relating to the amendments and additions to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber. Indeed, so far, the Act in force has been well welcomed, since there have been some very difficult procedures. I was a few mandates member of the Specialized Council, I was a member of the VAC and I have to tell you that there were really great difficulties. With the adoption of this Law and the absence of a single qualification framework and a regulatory body, very serious deviations have also been allowed, which can now be corrected by these six bills, which must be united into a common one. The lack of a single framework. Every single direction, no matter where, in which university he was, had his own rules, had his own criteria, and somewhere they were too low. In many places, dissertations were not defended for the Doctor of Science, habilitations were done through monographs, which were often collective work, so too much simplified the rules and too wide opened the doors for habilitation, which for Bulgaria is unreasonable, and I think should be corrected What is being proposed now, I think to a large extent can solve these problems. I agree with many of the proposals. Professor Stanilov suggests that a jury of science should be replaced by a committee of science, which is correct, logical, and I support this because, by the same logic, committees are working in parliament. Why aren't they called juries, for example? So the right thing is to be a commission. I can tell you a few things from the kitchen, because there are many, many paradoxes that really have been causing big problems for the heads of universities. For example, in the case of positive reviews, unanimous decision of the jury, goes to a scientific or faculty council and then gets negative vote or vice versa, negative reviews of the jury, goes to the scientific or faculty council and gets support. Then many of these candidates for a scientific position or rank begin the grievances. The Rector can't solve the problem. We treat the problem to the Minister of Education and Science.. also brings it back to us again and we go to court. The court is ruling, but not always competent enough. It is therefore essential that what a regulatory body is proposed to have. Professor Stanilov proposes to be an appeal committee to be an independent body. I agree with that because this is about an appeal, so it could be an appeal committee. But the important thing is to have such an organ because it is essential. I can also point out something else that is not foreseen in the bills, but I will very much insist that the Committee on Education and Science should bear this in mind because...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u35	Mr. Stankov, just a moment! Your regular time is running out. Would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u36	Yes, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u37	Extend the time of all groups. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u38	I would like to make a proposal to simplify the procedures for the chief assistant. They're too heavy. In almost all universities the application for assistant is with a competition exam. Then the mandatory protection of a doctoral dissertation, again an examination of the specialty and the third exam is when you are already applying for a head assistant. Three times the same exam. This is unnecessary and pointless. These procedures must be simplified and I will make such proposals. One more thing I'd like to pay attention to. There is talk of a scientific area everywhere. The scientific area is a very broad concept. I'll set an example with agrarian sciences. There are five scientific directions. A member of the jury may not be an example of Veterinarian medicine in the Gors' holding. So we need to talk about a science field and a science major, which is much more correct. I will make one such proposal to consider. I will end this: I support the proposed bills. There are rational things in all of them, and if they are united in a joint bill, I believe that a good Law on the Development of the Academic Board will be obtained, and indeed all these difficulties that the heads of the field are experiencing will be simplified and the problems will be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u39	Thank you, too. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mestan for speech, then Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u40	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the debates today raise a much more important issue that is beyond the specific subject, and this is the principle issue of legislation. If you open the stenographic protocols of the meetings of the Educational Commission from 2010, you will see that the main reason why the system for the development of the academic staff in Bulgaria of super-regulated went to the other extreme. The overrated law in force, which has been assessed almost revolutionary today, could have saved those negative phenomena that we have witnessed in recent years if political culture had suggested more compliance with opposition alternative opinions then. We tried extremely hard to convince both the importers and the then majority of GERB that the decentralisation of the procedures for the award of scientific degrees and the definition of scientific positions is good to combine with the introduction of uniform national criteria. At the time, this expression, which is common national criteria, was almost perceived as a confession of the importer for retrograde. Then we shared in very modern and very retrograde. Of course, modern was the majority who actually did what? They proposed some modification of the Romanian version of a law that was adopted shortly before us. Only the Romanian brothers were very quick to correct themselves. There is a very serious study of the damage it has done to Romanian science, this superliberalization without uniform national criteria for who could be a doctor, who deserves the scientific position of a professor or professor. The comforting thing now is that it is the Council of Ministers that proposes to partially repair these damages, that is, we are heard with five years' delay. However, I believe that no matter how positive the steps that will be taken with these five or six bills that we are looking at, I am convinced that they will be united, we will not solve the main issue. There is a need for a general change in the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, because there are also a number of white fields that will not be filled with the submitted bills. For the last time, as a liberal, I will ask the question: should the scientific growth of a scientist necessarily be linked to the existence of a position in a university or scientific organization? Bulgaria, as a modern democracy, will it answer the question: if one, to call it a Czech, produces a huge scientific product at home, does not want to work at a university, but its scientific output is so significant that it is used by both scientists and students, how will we measure the level of its scientific growth? Will he be able to get a confession as a scientist? That law won't do it. There's a position, you can run. Another question to which the current Law, including the amendments, will not answer. Imagine a situation where only one candidate appears to be an associate professor at the University of X. At the same time, there is a competition for associate professor at Sofia University, which, however, represents five candidates. The fifth, last ranked at Sofia University, has a scientific output twice as valuable as the only candidate for associate professor at H University. The one with twice as weak scientific output will become an associate professor and the fifth of the competition at Sofia University will not be an associate professor. Is public interest protected? No! It's broken! It's a fundamental question. Therefore, without ideological prejudice, without dividing ourselves into synodal elders and modernists, we must very carefully look for the answer to the question: if we are to introduce national criteria, I think by the appropriate term, it is unitary science metrics or data, which is the authority that will apply them? That's a very interesting question. I asked the Deputy Minister about it in an informal conversation a few minutes ago. I hope that together we will find the answer to this question, Mr. Deputy Minister, because in your text this question does not receive a convincing answer. Of course, it is possible to apply uniform national criteria to a decentralised structure. However, this is also a question of culture. This Law is an example of one more thing: there are laws that work and give wonderful results in some countries, but they come into a slightly different sociocultural environment, they are defective and give terrible results. The decentralisation system implies another culture of relationships, including within and within the scientific community, in order not to overwhelm the collegiate, friendly relations over what should be measured the level of scientific growth as objective assessment. I think that after the amendments we will not have given an answer to this fundamental question. Of course, we will support the bills, at least because they are, albeit a small step in the right direction. My call is, however, from now on, when we talk about science, when we talk about the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, without self-target ideological breakdowns, because science does not tolerate them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u41	Thank you. - What's the line? Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u42	The problems that colleague Mestan has raised are also being debated when we are now adopting the current Law. The problem of scientific growth outside the state system is solved in this Law in the sense that you can protect a small doctorate, two small doctorates, a large doctorate and grow in scientific terms with degrees. You're already legitimate in society as a scientist. The point is that we were again under the pressure of Sergei Ignatov and with the agreement of the government, then my party supported the first government of GERB without ruling, then I stood against the minister, but nothing worked out because colleagues in the Commission and in the National Assembly did not, in my opinion, understand the essence of the problem. The question was, Mr. Mestan, whether to be a title or to be a position, because when the professor was appointed, retiring in that position, he was no longer a professor. And with one amendment in Transitional and additional regulations, so this position was valid after he retired, which is not true. The term I will now propose is to replace the debt with a calling that remains for life. There's no way we're gonna decide to give out titles outside the state. And now it's decided. For example, a guest professor, a guest professor or a lecturer one or two years at a university, the professorship, as is abroad, remains. So I don't think and I don't see a gap in how we can do it, so those who are out of the system and working and have great contributions, and temporarily go to reading lectures or not reading how to grow up in rank. There's no way to do that. There's no such mechanism. As far as the science requirements are concerned, trying to introduce some kind of system... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The criteria are the lower limit, and the scientific advice is that they work, fulfill these criteria up. What you suggested, you said that when there are national requirements, national criteria then the one who applies for chief assistant at a provincial university and who is worse than the one who is fifth on the list of Sofia University, the provincial, who is lower, must meet these requirements. If he does, he goes in if he doesn't. And the fifth one, who is better than him, if he goes there to apply loses if he doesn't go it's a right of choice. Now that's liberalism. There's a difference between liberal and liberal, so let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u43	Please finish, Mr. Stanilov. Thank you. Another line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Stanilov, this is exactly what I meant by the example of the fifth from Sofia University and the only one from the University of X. When the national criteria are gone, this chaos is created and the public interest is violated. Therefore, the right step is the introduction of the national criteria for which you and I both pleaded in 2010. As for the other question that you have put to a position or title, the problem becomes even more complex because now it is relatively easy to acquire the scientific degree of doctor, which proves to be self-sufficient as an existent minimum requirement for acquiring and scientific positions. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] Hold on, hold on. Since the second doctorate remained purely wishful thinking for habilitation, how do we measure the difference in the scientific level among doctors? How? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] Let me tell you: just because there are no other measurers, another hierarchy, we are burdening the positions of the Associate Professor and Professor with dual functionality. We have practically also turned them into measurers at the different level of scientific growth, that is, they function simultaneously as positions and as degrees. We have to be honest with each other about this. It is precisely the conversion of a PhD into an absolutely fictitious, declarative status that we replace this hierarchy of degrees with the hierarchy of positions. There is also an internal contradiction here, which should normally be decided in this Law. I think that you and I are not arguing, but rather recalling that the problems faced by the Bulgarian science the devaluation of both degrees and titles could have been saved if the government and opposition had the culture to hear from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u45	Thank you. To make a statement, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to return to the bills that we are discussing seven in number, but we must emphasise that three of them create prerequisites for a drastic change in the philosophy of the current Law. The proposals made in the proposals of colleague Mihov, Stanilov and in the Draft for a change of the Law of the Ministry of Education and Science create really conditions to improve the environment in which career development takes place given the problems created by the adoption of the Law four years ago. I must tell you that I am one of the critics of this Law in its creation, for at least two reasons. The first is that I was in the Presidium of the Supreme Testimonial Commission and, secondly, that the Law, when it was adopted in Bulgaria, has already been taken into account in Romania all the errors of the Act in force, and it has been accordingly cancelled for action due to the fact that in several years more professors, times more professors, things which respectively affect the quality of research and career development of those who really want and can engage in science. I would like to draw attention to the bills in their fields of proposals. The first round of issues to be discussed is in the project of the Ministry of Education, which proposes the establishment of a National Centre for Information and Documentation. Reading carefully the proposals made in the Bill, I was under the impression that this would be a centre that would make a register. And now there is a register of those who have respectively defended and respectively passed from one to another scientific rank, but apparently it is not enough. I want to ask: what will this register solve for us? The register is a register, there may be any information in it, but it cannot solve cases. That's why prof's proposal. Stanilov for the National Agency for Academic Appelation has much wider powers and they are really related to solving certain problems when you need to create prerequisites and committees to be able to solve them. In science there are serious problems related to plagiarism, that there should be a body that can solve these problems. The Court of Justice cannot be that body which is currently in the current Law. So we support rather extending the rights of such a National Agency, which has such control functions as well as giving opinions on certain issues. The second issue, which is also addressed by the Law of the Ministry of Education, is related to the introduction of minimum national requirements for candidates for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the holding of an academic position. At first glance, this is an improvement of the current Law. In my opinion, it is in the right direction in order to avoid the mentioned differences in the choice of doctors, doctors of science and the appointment of academic positions. However, I do not see from here on how we will continue to fulfil this commitment, recorded in law, because it is almost impossible for me to find a committee at national level to deal with the development of some minimum national requirements. What is written in the Law so monographs, so many articles and participations in conferences, patents and so on is something aggregate that does not give the direction and framework of these minimum requirements, they are different in different scientific specialities. As Professor said. Stankov, in the agricultural sphere we have five directions that are fundamentally different and we cannot narrow them down to the humanitarian directions so that we can describe them. Therefore, if the problem is not resolved in the Law how and how these minimum national requirements will be put into action from now on, we do nothing with this text of the Law. There are a number of cases that arose on the proper functioning of the Law. Professor. Stankov, once again I would like to quote him, said: "How will we evaluate the requirements of candidates for scientific degrees and academic positions?" According to the draft law of the Ministry of Education, this assessment is included in the scientific jury. Okay, but if the members of the jury decide that they can't continue the procedure from now on, what do we do? Or vice versa: the scientific jury or the scientific committee decided that the procedure should be carried out.. We have a finalization, but the faculty council selects us?! There is no answer to these questions here in the bills. So in our opinion, what is written in the MES Project is just one wish and quite complicates the procedure. Between first and second readings, we need to make an extremely strong effort for the Law to acquire in a completely different way the technology of solving these issues that you all know and in these four years you have faced the realization of scientific capacity. Perhaps a very new Law will solve the issue, but this is a projection that should be in the future, and at this stage between the two readings of the Law must be made efforts to clear absolutely all the issues at issue. Colleague Mihov presented his idea for the jury or committee to be designated randomly. This is very good as an idea, but in my opinion absolutely not applicable, given the perimeter of the scientific specialities and directions. In addition, you must have a complete register of who are leading specialists in the scientific fields, how they develop, and such a register in the Law is missing to make this random choice. It's not working for me. Rather, it is really necessary to think in terms of the management of the scientific process and career development to be subject to principles and mechanisms that create prerequisites for those who can and know to develop, because they have been admitted and exceptions are more than positive examples in this direction, from the point of view of career growth. And lastly, perhaps, the scientific titles is the term to which we should return, not the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u47	Thank you. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman! Professor. Bachvarova, one short line. I understand your arguments and reasoning about this principle of formation of the jury on external members, but it is related to a very important proposal of ours - creating such a classification of professional directions and specialties. I think he's more important than the random principle. Because if we have such a classifier, whether we choose them by chance or some of us offer them, each initiative will be linked to an argumentation: why is it, because in the classifier he does not choose them, is precisely defined in a specialty and direction. So I wanted to stress that the two ideas are connected together. I think the classificationr is more important than the other, without, of course, withdrawing from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u49	Thank you. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova? You're giving up the back. Any other speeches, fellow Members, on the six laws? If there is not, I ask all Members of the National Assembly to take their seats in this Chamber, there is a vote to be taken. [[Noise and lines.]] Honourable Members, take your seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u50	I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 131 MPs: for 131, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria with importer Stanislav Stanilov. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. The next bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria is with importers of the National Assembly Lutvi Mestan, Mustafa Karadayi and Aliosman Imamov. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 136 MPs: 125, against 2, abstention 9. The bill was passed at first reading. The next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria is with an importer of the Council of Ministers. We vote. Vote 138 MPs: 111, against 2, abstention 25. The bill was passed at first reading. The latest Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria is with importers Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 132 MPs: 124, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. And this bill was adopted at first reading by the National Assembly. Moving on to the next point: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE BULGARIAN ACADEMIA OF LEARNINGS 2014 Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Report from the Committee on Education and Science. Before that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure for access to the hall of the academician Stefan Vodenicharov, Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u52	I put to the vote the procedural proposal of my colleague Georgiev. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite Academician Vodenicharov to the hall. We're listening, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u53	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014, No 550-00-3, submitted by the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 6 April 2015. At its regular meeting on 29 April 2015, the Education and Science Committee discussed the Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014, No 550-00-3, submitted by the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 6 April 2015. The meeting was attended by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Stefan Vodenicharov and Prof. Stefan Vodenicharov Evdokiya Pasheva; from the Ministry of Education and Science Todor Tanev; from the CST "High Education and Science" "Assoc. Dr. Eng. Lilyana Valcheva; Council of Rectors Lyuben Totev Rector of the Minno-Geological University of Sv. Assoc. Prof. Ivan Rilski and Assoc. Grigory Vazov Rector of the Higher School of Insurance and Finance; from the employers' organizations Vasil Todorov, Secretary General of BCCI. Written opinions came from the Minister of Education and Science, from the Minister of Economy, from the Minister of Defence, from the Minister of Environment and Water, from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, from the Union of Scientists in Bulgaria and from the Federation of Scientific and Technical Unions in Bulgaria. Everyone is in favour of this report. The report was presented by academia. Stefan Vodenicharov. In 2014, 2943 scientists worked at the Academy, not allowing a jumping increase in the number of professors. The publication activity includes 9960 titles. Of these, 3941 are in international reference magazines. The highest share is scientific publications in the field of nanoscience, new materials and technologies and in the field of information and communication sciences and technologies. For the accounting year BAS holds 63.4% of all references of Bulgarian authors with more than 38 thousand quotes. In 2014 the budget subsidy amounted to 77 million. 278 thousand. lv. Almost the entire subsidy is spent on salaries, insurance contributions, benefits and scholarships. Their own revenues and transfers are 62.2 million. lv. They are formed by contracts under international programs and agreements, by contracts with ministries and offices, with Bulgarian and foreign companies, by selling production and services, donations, etc. To them are added transfers from the Research Fund, from other ministries and offices, from operational programmes and other programmes of the European Union. In 2014 BAS celebrated its 145th anniversary and organized a series of meetings, discussions and celebrations. BAS is the initiator, organizer and co-organizer of a number of events related to the 1,000th anniversary of King Samuel's death. In cooperation with the newspaper "Standart" took place thematic discussions under the title of "Day Order of Bulgaria" and national goals and priorities in energy, education, tourism, health care. The Academic and Industrial Club was created to help establish effective links between industry, science and education. It is concluded that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences retains its position as a leading research centre and fulfills its calling as a uniter on particularly important and painful issues for the Bulgarian society. The problem remains the attraction of young people. It is related to the inefficient policy of the state for the detention of young, highly qualified specialists and to the insufficient budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in order to perform successfully and qualitatively the tasks and requirements of national and European science and innovation programmes. The discussion on the report included MPs Borislav Velikov, Stanislav Stanilov, Mariana Todorova, Mariana Georgieva, Snezhana Dukova, Mariana Boyadjieva, Krasimir Todorov and Milen Mihov. Members of the National Assembly expressed their gratitude to all scientists who, despite the difficult conditions, are working to carry out the mission of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences as a leading scientific and spiritual center. One of the most positive trends is that the Academy becomes increasingly pό visible and pό-visible for the state, for the Bulgarian and for the foreign business, who are increasingly looking for its expertise. The high investment effect of the funds given for science was highlighted and the opportunity was discussed for the Academy to receive additional funding of 5 million. BGN, in view of the target numbers set out in national strategic documents for an increasing percentage of gross domestic product for science in the coming years. In this regard, the question was asked whether all units of BAS contributed equally to the reported results and worked as functionally as the Academy as a whole. A call was made for further promotion of the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which will have an educational effect and provide a good example for Bulgarian citizens, with particular attention to adolescents. Representatives of universities, trade unions and employers' organizations said the data exported showed a poor funding but very good governance. They expressed the assessment that in recent years the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences feels greater openness to universities and businesses, and regional academic centers are effective and active tools for connection between science and business. The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences replied that a procedure for a new attestation at all levels has started, which will determine whether there is a need for optimization of the individual units. The Academy is ambitious to make pό visible its role as an expert centre of the state. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has contracts with eight ministries for joint work and insists on additional tasks being assigned to it. The doors of the Grand Salon of the Academy are open for various events, joint events with popular media are organized. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held: the National Assembly proposed unanimously to adopt the following draft for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear colleagues, according to art. 87, para. 6 of our Rules of Procedure The BAS report is discussed after the Assembly has heard the opinion of the Commission which has just been made. We are about to hear the presentation of the importer within 10 minutes, and then we open the debate. I recall that the Members of the National Assembly may make editorial proposals under the Commission's Decision Project and that the importer may take part in the proposals and recommendations made. Here you go, Akad. Vodenicharov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try within 10 minutes to present the Reporter of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I stress, for 2014. [[Initiating computer presentation.]] This slide shows the content as the leading scientific centre of the state, expert potential, national spiritual center. In pò last year were celebrated 145 years since the establishment of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and I would like to draw your attention to a statement of the founder of the Academy Prof. Marin Drinov: Without the help of science, a nation would never reach the point of all mankind. The celebration has passed quite publicly. Several exhibitions were made in Sofia, days of science have been made throughout the country in our regional centers. 10 individual and collective projects have been awarded, 21 collectives of 16 institutions have been awarded, which have had projects over 1 million over the last five years. lv. The meeting of the academics and correspondents was quite active on this slide you see the work they have done. I just want to tell you that in 2014, they published 222 articles, one book, 19 conference reports and 19 reviews. Their public activities are at a very high level. They were members of 162 programme committees, 115 scientific sessions and led over 110 projects worth more than 13 million. lv. I would like to tell you that the members of the Academy, actually members of the Assembly of Academicians and correspondents, play a very important role in supporting the further promotion of the Academy as a national scientific and spiritual centre. The publishing activity. On this slide you see the total publications are 9960 and are divided into several sectors, the publications without referencing are 45%, the publications with referencing are 40%, which is a very good indicator of the audience activity and the visibility they have in the scientific world. The next green slide marked the results in 2014. You see, the posts on the left are referencing, then You can see that there are no changes, despite the miserable means that have been given for science in Bulgaria. Finally, it's textbooks and study aids. The next slide shows the distribution of scientific works in the various scientific fields, with the most interesting for the society at the moment are nanosciences and new materials there are 23%, then information technologies, biodiversity and biomedicine. On the next slide are distributed scientific works in referee editions, but it is very important that you look at the column with quotes: the quotes retain their level and mean how visible is the science of the scientists in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in the world scientific community, which is a very high indicator. Publications in the reference journals. Here you can see the comparison with the two main universities of Sofia and Medical, 63% are of scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. On the questions of the projects of the next slide you see that from the Fund "Science Research" in 2014 the total value of the won projects from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is over 6 million. On this slide are shown distributions in different directions. And on the next slide you can see that 57% of all the projects won in the Fund of Science are from scientists of the Academy of Sciences. On the next slide you see the additional funding at the beginning of the Science Research Fund, then from Bulgarian sources. You can see that the main funding comes from foreign sources, which once again shows that academics at the Academy have wide international recognition. The next slide shows additional funding. It is evident that compared to 2013 there is a very strong increase to 50 million in additional contracts and projects. The next slide shows the distribution of funding in different scientific directions. Once again, it appears that nanosciences are the first with 36%, then a cultural heritage and information technology. The additional funding of the next slide shows that mostly our contracts in Bulgaria are with ministries and offices, but note that about 20% come from commercial companies, which shows that the Academy is a sought-after partner from the Bulgarian industry. Further, additional funding from abroad is shown -- 58% are European projects, but, see, foreign trading companies are 30%, which also shows the great interest of foreign companies in our development. The regional academic centers are important. In 2014, we have already made contact with neighbouring countries: the Nishki University in Serbia; the Thracian University in Turkey; the Gyurgiu University in Romania, and the universities in northern Greece. These regional centers greatly contribute to the link between scientists across the country and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The expert potential of the Academy is related to the creation of the Academic and Industrial Club "Dobri Zhelyazkov," which established better links between the industrialists and the Bulgarian scientists at the Academy. And something extremely important was established Student Institute in which gifted children receive additional help for their development, and these are the gold medalists of Bulgaria of the world Olympiads. The expert development continued with a number of round tables. It was a very interesting round table with the newspaper "Standart": "The Day Order of Bulgaria" "The priorities of energy, education, tourism and health care." Some of these decisions have already been implemented by the government, which is now. A discussion was held between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the newspaper "Pressa" "International Security Conference," discussed the issue of the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine. In 2014 we were visited by Barroso's Chief Scientific Advisor. Ann Glover, who had an interesting meeting at the Academy. I would like to say to you some words that she repeated repeatedly: "Colegi, who tells you that science is done with European projects, it does not speak the truth. This, my colleagues, is just the icing on the cake. The main part of the cake must ensure the budget of the state. On the subject of scientists, the defending doctoral students are 137. On this slide you see their distribution. Then there's the division of academic positions. I would like to tell you that the number of professors and docetors at the Academy has not changed sharply, which shows that the criteria for academic growth in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are very strictly respected. The age structure of scientists is a bad picture. You see the lack of inflow of young people into science and the answer is clear: the unclear financial condition in maintaining science in Bulgaria. The average age of scientists at the Academy is 49 years, here is age distribution. And something very important is the spiritual center that we want to do at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. That year, BAS was the chief organizer of the celebrations of 1,000 years since King Samuel's death. Of great importance for the truthfulness of history was the conference we made with representatives of 13 countries, 65 scientists. All their publications are translated into English, and it would be nice if we could somehow send this book to all our embassies so that the people of the world can learn the historical truth. After that was held a conference for Boris Hristov, for Stefan Stambolov, for Peter Beron. An interesting evening was for the family Nikolay Raynov.. Bogomil Raynov, for Ivan Evstatiev Gesov. Our work with the Macedonian Academy of Sciences is also important. We had a celebration together on May 11th here in Sofia. This year we will celebrate Cyril and Methodius in Skopje. We are currently preparing together a 1000-year celebration of Kliment Ohridski with celebration in Ohrid and Sofia. We are trying without any financial support to make a dignified celebration, while in a neighbouring country is a state policy the celebration of this saint. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences traditionally hosts the presentation of new books. It was the book of Akad that mattered. Georgi Markov The other story of the greatest war. An outstanding book that shows World War II from the point of view of the defeated. It was also a wonderful book of acad. The Asparuh Story. A few words about subsidies and the transfer. In 2014, our subsidy was 77 million. 200,000. BGN, I don't want to tell you how much it is this year. The own revenues and transfers for 2014 see how they are distributed. After that, the total subsidy went mainly for salaries. The own revenues and transfers you see in the end that we are almost reaching with our own resources the subsidy granted by the State for us. Then there's the Academy's expenses. They are mainly for salaries and taxes paid. Finally, the Academy's capital expenditures. You see, we don't get anything from the capital expenditure subsidy, we do it on our own. The conclusions are very brief. The Academy is open to society, promotes the success of Bulgarian scientists and reaffirms the leading place of BAS once again as a scientific and spiritual center. We are confirmed and have reserved the place of a leading research centre, which is also visible from the results achieved. All our research is in line with the National Strategy for Research Development. Finally, I would like to read you the final conclusion: still at the foreground at the Academy is the problem of attracting young people to the Institutes of BAS. The number of PhD students working in the Academy's structure has continued in recent years, but is extremely insufficient. The active popularization of researchers' scientific achievements is there, but here is the place to note the inefficient policy of the state for the detention of young, highly qualified specialists in the country to continue their scientific career here. This issue is part of the main problem. The extremely insufficient budget of the Academy to be implemented successfully, with high quality the tasks and requirements of national and European programmes for science and innovation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u56	Thank you. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u57	Dear Madame Chairman, dearest Acad. Vodenicharov, dear colleagues! To support this report is the smallest gesture the National Assembly can address to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As we can see, he spoke for himself, respectable with his content, but impressed that his structure is such that he responds to the criticisms that have accumulated at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences over the years. I wish the structure of this report would be different next year. It is no longer right to place the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in an acquittal regime, as it is the leading scientific centre, it makes 52 From now on, I just want to confirm the prestige of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, not make it justify itself. First of all, we have seen in the report that in a non-appellative way it was proved that BAS is the leading scientific centre. We have seen the respectable achievements in science through publications, quotes, impact factor, won projects. BAS is already going to the country, opening regional centres, meaning it follows the principle of decentralisation. I believe that through it the scientific capacity of the regions will be supported. They will also be able to apply for European projects. BAS is also a major spiritual center.. follows the testaments of the Bulgarian Book Society, dealing not only with scientific but also with spiritual issues. We see that she has held a series of discussions about the truthfulness of history, about who King Samuel is and other examples.... I do not need to mention them here. BAS also contributes to the development of the state's expertise. A series of debates have been held on the country's agenda. I believe that it is through the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences that we can lay the basis for a new national doctrine and I am absolutely convinced that it is in its capabilities and capacity. It has fulfilled all the considerations of the National Strategy for Research Development. And we come up with the most important problem for funding. This is a key issue that we must resolve. This is the main gesture that we can do.. not just support the report. This year, about 77 million were separated, and another 12 were needed. Here I want to use the stands to appeal to the Minister of Finance, because the prestige of a minister of finance is directly linked to how he treats science and education. Please find these 12 million, which were not in the budget this year, so that BAS can support not only the costs of salaries and capital expenditure, but to devote more to science. It has been proven, as Mr Barroso's advisor has said, the main funds come from the budget. There's a survey of the National Statistical Institute of all companies. They are asked how many of them can devote to scientific and development. Of all companies in Bulgaria, only 11-12 percent said they had a feather in their budget for this and 75% said they had neither material nor personnel capacity to devote to science. It is clear that the main responsibility for the development of science, for innovative activities lies with the state and it must assume its responsibility. Each year, in various strategies, different priority documents, we state that our aim is to reach the countries of the European Union in funding for science and education. Here the funding for science is between 0.4 and 0,5% of gross domestic product, while on average in European countries is 1.8%, for the US Enough with the declarative action. Yes, many areas need funding, but in order to have a qualitative leap in development, we must pay tribute to science and look for the average level of funding for European countries. In the next 3-year budget framework, this is not at stake. I hope that by overcoming the budget deficit after 2018, we will move towards covering these objectives. Once again, I ask the Minister of Finance to provide these 12 million, which are needed by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the budget on other items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u58	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. To speak on my list is Mr. Mihov. He's gone. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u59	It was a tradition to go out on this stand when it comes to science, to BAS or to universities, and to speak the same words. This report was to be read and adopted in 2015. No one said that the National Assembly found no time to accept the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences' Review for 2014 in 2015, which is by law. With the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which was adopted during the 40th National Assembly, the amendment was adopted and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was asked to report to the National Assembly. Until then, there was no such thing. It was done on purpose. The National Assembly did so to see what the state of BAS was in view of the future budget and the government's policy towards science. Unfortunately, after this was adopted, the next term came a proposal from MPs to close the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the only structure in Bulgaria of such a nature, which has an international audit. If anyone has forgotten this, let them remember it. We have an evaluation by the Association of European Academies of Sciences. Several institutes, I think there were 7, have an assessment of the AAA, which means a global level. And that for a six-seven million people, hardly any of you can imagine what it is! When the time comes for the state subsidy, then it turns out no one can hear us. Everyone believes that the Bulgarians are stupid, simple and silly. I repeat it for the sixth time in this room, and they do not need high fabrics. The Romanian Academy of Sciences, which was at our level at the time, is already ahead of us. Institutes that were below our level are already climbing above it. I don't want to talk anymore. The main thing I'm going to say is that not funding the Academy deprives her of the opportunity to get a shot. They're going west. This is where you can see in a mid-level PhD exam. I've been on committees and juries a couple of times for these PhD exams. Out of three or four candidates, you can barely pick one. I think that this year we should adopt the next report for 2015, and when autumn starts to solve the budget issues, let us remember that the salaries at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are at the level of the cleaning women in the company of Petar Kanev. He will tell you how much he pays the cleaners, and I will tell you how much he receives an associate professor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. You'll see that the associate gets 100-150 leva. less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u60	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, this Annual Activity Report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014 is much richer than what was presented. The time has not reached Academician Vodenicharov. We have this report on the parliamentary groups. Anyone who wishes can look at it further. I share the opinion of Prof. Stanilov and Mariana Todorova on the issues that raised you. I'll mark two more moments. In light of the circumstances as a member of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Board, I am impressed by the active position of the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in validating this important institution as a spiritual research centre of Bulgaria. That's indisputable. I particularly support an important role in the dissemination of spirituality, the research spirit in the country play regional academic centers. The Regional Academic Center in Montana was established in 2014. In fact, it was the first regional academic center to be established without there being a scientific institute of the Academy, a university, a subsidiary or something. It also makes it an honor and personal experience for Academician Vodenicharov to realize the need for such regional centers so that there can be sprouts of this spirituality and research spirit to develop over the years. Efforts were made by the respected academicist Dechko Pavlov and his associates. I'll remind my colleagues that this is a famous scientist, an electrochemist, perhaps the best in the field of lead rechargeable systems. The cooperation that has proved to be an undertaking such as the Montbat in Montana is not irrelevant for many years. That's just one example. Such regional centres, including what has been noted in the report, a meeting of cultures over the millennia in Montana and other initiatives, must be supported. This is where I move on to the second part of my speech. Here is the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" is gaining steam. They are under way and are expected to outline the centres of excellence in the country, the centres of competence and the regional centres of competence where we can, if we are wise enough, balanced enough to distribute the funds we will have from the European Union and use the entire capacity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, strengthen it naturally. It is undisputed that we expect the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and its institutes to be the foundation of these centres, especially for excellence and competence. In this way, it will actually contribute to the creation of the necessary scientific infrastructure, something undoubtedly important. Scientific infrastructure without the people the moment at which Prof. Stanilov, and Mariana Todorova stressed, is very important. You know, between the first and second reading of the State Budget Act for 2016, we proposed that there should be an increase in the state subsidy for the Academy with the 12 million that we talked about. We were not very successful, therefore the work for 2017 should begin in this direction. From the Reformation Bloc we have an idea, of course, with colleagues from GERB and others supporting the government, we should put, and I would commit personally, the issue of science and specifically the state subsidy for science, including the Academy of Sciences, to put it in the Development Council. Consider in the Development Council in order to receive support from the Development Council, which will also be necessary for the Minister of Finance Vladi Goranov, so that he can be more relaxed that what is proposed by the MPs will be really important for the country. In this way we will gradually prepare the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and our entire community for the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the founding of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which emerges after a relatively small number of years something that is undoubtedly an event for the whole of our society. Thank you for your attention. Let us support the 2014 Annual Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Akad. Vodenicharov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I join the words that my colleagues have said about the underfinancing of the Bulgarian Academy and its, of course, significant contribution to both science and the development of Bulgarian society. More like a question for an acad. Vodenicharov. Since a modern facility appeared in Sofia, the so-called Technopark, I am interested because I did not hear from the report, what was the participation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in its construction? Are there any ideas for development and collaboration in the technology park? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u64	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Academic Vodenicharov, if you wish, when the debate is over, then answer other questions if they arise. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As noted, this is the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014. In the new calendar year, we do not have a report for the previous year. My request is that, the next time these reports are dealt with, they should be on time to take the necessary measures and adjust the research funding policy. Otherwise there is no dispute that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is a leading scientific institution in Bulgaria, there is no dispute that what has been done in recent years is aimed at the realization of the scientific products that the Academy creates. For me it is extremely impressive the development of the innovation centre. Without innovations coming from the scientific units, we cannot rely on the development of the Bulgarian economy. I would very much like to have closer cooperation with other scientific organizations in the country, such as the Agricultural Academy, in the next reporting period. The reports show how we have good cooperation with leading European institutes, there are international projects, but also those who work at the scientific field in Bulgaria have common interests, have the task, the desire to develop the Bulgarian economy and work in one direction. As a leading center the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should be the leader to lead to the realization and solution of the problems of the economy through innovation. Thank you. We support the report of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and hope that with the discussion being made, we will find the opportunity to all together support Bulgarian science, including through more dignified funding from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, acad. Vodenicharov! I wasn't prepared to speak up in advance. I would like to state my group's support for the report you have made. Undoubtedly it is much better than the previous, more comprehensive and classic more demonstrably visible. I cannot disagree with what colleagues from all parliamentary groups have said that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences sets the tone of science, of great science, of high science. I cannot disagree with the high results and scientific achievements that the Bulgarian Academy of Science has. I cannot disagree with this comprehensiveness and transparency that you say and disagree with the fact that it does not seem like a single parliament to accept this report with a year's delay, which indicates a delay in time and problems that could be identified at this time. Two things outside of what the coworkers said. Very recently we adopted a Law with which there will most likely be a research university, and scientific work will not be a priority only of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As professor. Bachvarova said you have to work with everyone else. I would like this partnership, this interaction for the development of high science to happen on this field with the participation and with the help of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I think your responsibility is different, but it is also a calling. It's about funding. Undoubtedly in all spheres there is a need for funds, undoubtedly it is a topic and gum that is not spoken of yesterday. However, I believe that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is working on many projects and there is good project funding, which is not to be underestimated. Secondly, you have started a restructuring process, a rejuvenation of the personnel that must continue and restructuring the institutes that are not functional and do not produce that result in that quality that corresponds to European and global trends. In this sense, I think that you should continue because they generate a source of revenue or less costs, so in this sense the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has more to work with. I conclude by saying that from last year, even when the Higher Education Strategy was adopted, you have given an application for being a partner of state policy, identifying the problems in Bulgarian politics, stating them to the governing authorities, being supportive and making this symbiosis. Keep up the good work and I think things will be more successful. And who else wouldn't have more money? Where, when and how, it will judge in the best form and way the government itself that divides this money. We are all for this, as long as they are available in sufficient quantity. Thank you very much. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. Dear Members of Parliament, I am closing the debate on this point. Academic Vodenicharov, if you'd like to take an attitude at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u69	Thank you. First, I want to answer Mr. Lilkov's question. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is not invited to discuss how the technopark is created and what will be in it. BAS is not informed what the future of the technopark is and what will be done in it. Otherwise, I would like to thank all those who have spoken for the support and know that despite the difficult conditions we will try to be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u70	Thank you, Akad. Vodenicharov. Honourable Members, we have a vote coming up. Please take your seats in the hall. We vote as follows: Project! DECISION on the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 3, para. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activity of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2014 Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u71	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the meeting is continuing! The fourth item of our program is scheduled for tomorrow morning. We continue with the fifth point, namely: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF DIVERSITY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Who will present the report to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In order to accept this report at first reading, I ask for permission in the hall of Mr. Krasimir Tzipov. Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior and Mr. Assen Ignatov. Deputy Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u73	Thank you. There's a procedural proposal for admission to the court. We are voting on this proposal, please vote on it. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, take your seats in this Chamber, there will probably be no quorum in this vote. Please vote. Colleagues, vote, the quorum is 68 people. [[Noise and lines.]] Please cancel the vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, take your seats in the Chamber. [[Noise.]] We're in a voting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] We canceled. Now, please, a voting regime for a procedural proposal for access to the Chamber. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite the executive representatives to the Chamber. Here's the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u74	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters, No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016. At a regular meeting held on 24 February 2016, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, and Chief Commissioner Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Tzipov. The exhibition stressed that the draft proposed amendments and additions to the priorities provided for in the Hyogo 2005-2015 Action Framework and the Sendai Disaster Risk Reduction Framework 2015-2030, which reflect the current trends and understandings of disaster risk management. The amendments aim at improving the understanding of the risk of disasters in all its dimensions of vulnerability, capacity, exposure to hazards to people and assets, characteristics of hazards and the environment. Aims to ensure strong and coordinated institutional management of disaster risk as a priority at national, regional and local level. The establishment of advice to reduce the risk of disasters to the Council of Ministers, regional governors and mayors of municipalities is envisaged. Planning to reduce risk at all levels by implementing coordination policies, which will lead to a single approach to protection and opportunities to reduce the risks of disasters. The mechanism for financing preventive preparatory and response activities shall be improved. A minimum percentage of the means of unforeseen but urgent costs for financing preventive actions and response preparation activities shall also be laid down. There is also a mechanism for improving training in pre-school and school education, as well as for informing society by using the achievements of science and technology. Temporary accommodation of injured persons in buildings for other purposes and the use of property and property provided by the competent authorities, legal and natural persons shall be provided. It is also envisaged to increase the capacity of local authorities in case of disasters by creating voluntary formations in the municipalities in accordance with the Government's Programme for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014-2018. Director of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. Nikolay Nikolov added that the aim of the bill is to create a better organization and coordination with a view to achieving better results. In the debates took part the people representative Ivan Ivanov, who said that the increased requirements for participation of municipalities and regulation of additional obligations is not clear whether they are financially secured and indicated the amount of 800 thousand. lv. The Chairman of the Committee Tsvetan Tsvetanov explained that for the first time the bill provided funds for preventive activities. He underlined that the dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities will continue, and as for the 800 thousand mentioned. BGN, this is an amount which is claimed by the municipalities and is estimated. Expressed the view that the Bill improves the disaster protection system at both central and local level and provides for integrated responsibility of all authorities. After the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes in favour and 3 votes in abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Protection, No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u75	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. The second report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters No 602-01-4 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 4 February 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Disaster Protection No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Chief Commissioner Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection, Senior Commissioner Asen Ignatov, Deputy Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Chief Commissioner Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The proposed changes aim at ensuring a strong institutional start to disaster risk management as a priority at national, regional and local level. Councils to reduce the risk of disasters to the Council of Ministers, regional governors and mayors of municipalities are planned to play the role of disaster risk reduction platforms for the respective levels. The promotion and promotion of the public and private sectors shall be ensured to take action and address disaster risk management activities. In this way, the mechanisms of the disaster risk reduction system will be improved. The role of the National Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction is also strengthened by regulating vertical and horizontal links at different levels of government. Planned disaster risk reduction at national, regional and local level is in place, which is a prerequisite for ensuring consistency between policies in the different sectors and disaster protection policies. The National Council for Disaster Risk Reduction is given the opportunity to provide guidance on the preparation of planning documents, which will lead to a unified approach to disaster protection planning. Opportunity shall be provided to prioritize disaster risk mitigation activities. The same are key to the regional use of available capacity and resource. The mechanism for financing preventive actions and response preparation activities is improved, which will lead to increased preparedness for disaster response. A minimum percentage of the funds from the contingency and/or emergency costs reserve for financing preventive actions and response preparation activities shall be regulated. In order to improve the coordination of disaster response activities, a head of operations with specific functions and powers shall be introduced, providing for a flexible approach in determining it depending on the nature of the disaster. The functions and tasks of regional, municipal disaster response headquarters shall be regulated. The conditions under which the competent authorities may declare a disaster and the time limits of action shall be revised in order to respond more quickly and effectively, manage and overcome the negative consequences of disasters. The changes are also expected to lead to an increase in capacity in terms of the readiness and response of local authorities to disasters through the mandatory creation of voluntary formations in municipalities with population of up to 20,000 people in accordance with the Government's Programme for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018. The Commission presented an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing principle support for the proposed changes, paying attention to the good interaction in the preparation of the bill. At the same time, concrete proposals were made by municipalities to improve separate provisions of the Bill, which were generally supported by the MPs who spoke. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 9............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No 602-01-4, tabled by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. On behalf of the importers, would you like to take the floor, Mr. Tzipov? No. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, a Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Disasters was presented to your attention well written, solidly written, more than 34 pages with the reasons. New requirements are introduced for both the state and municipalities. However, we all miss a major hole that emerges in the Law. The biggest problem in it is that it is mostly of a wishful thinking Unfortunately, we do not see any desire to change the way we finance all the actions that need to be carried out and, above all, to prevent critical infrastructure. During the meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, it became clear even that on this date we do not have an analysis which are the most critical points in terms of this infrastructure, which we have all seen lately what damage it does to the Bulgarian population and the settlements in municipalities. Unfortunately, I do not see in this bill this preventive activity, which is included at the beginning of art. 6 shall also be included in the Strategy itself, which must be carried out within 6 months. There is no harm, it is really good to make serious steps in this direction so that the Bulgarian population can be protected from such negative environmental impacts of nature, such as floods and earthquakes. But somehow everything gets more and more divorced. Indeed, some commitments are being made to both municipalities and state institutions, training is being started. But the main problem is funding. There is no clear commitment, since these all objects that are identified by the relevant institutions under these amendments to the Law, who will finance them, who will give the funds then to make these things happen? And in this case, the representatives of the Ministry of Interior are also here, and they know very well that the best protection against such disasters is prevention. And we don't see any possibility of making prevention. The amounts allocated even in this year's budget are extremely insufficient. The Commission referred to the fact that 800 thousand were granted at the time at the request of the municipalities. BGN, and on the basis of individual requests, at the risk of repeating, without giving a basic analysis of the main critical points in these elements of the infrastructure and where efforts should be made, to invest money in order not to get into the situations that we witnessed in Asparuhovo, in Miziya and all these troubles that people were struck by. I therefore believe that at this stage of the Draft Law, which has been proposed, at least by our parliamentary group, it will be difficult to support and we will be abstaining because we do not believe that any adequate protection of the population from such cyclical natural events as are taking place with negative results is offered in these texts. Sadly, we are constantly witnessing such events these days. We ourselves have suffered in these situations. We really need to review this situation more carefully. Moreover, we may be about to start looking at the Public Finance Act today, where a change is being made, which concerns precisely the financing of municipalities. In no case shall the financing of such projects be taken into account again. It became a regular practice to follow events, to walk, to run to cover the damage after something happened. The important thing is to be able to have one look and to have the opportunity to react, not only by training, and to units that practically do not work, as are voluntary units. My request is that, when it arrives at second reading, indeed, Members of Parliament take greater attention to this Bill and change the texts so that the State has a firm commitment in preparing the financing of the removal of such a problematic critical infrastructure and its impact. At least to do an accurate analysis of which are the most painful, most neural points, and with the assistance of the municipalities. They know very well. Not to work in a piece, as we do now, to want the individual object, after the disaster has already passed, when it becomes trouble, the municipalities to start asking for money from the state and to prove that they are extremely insufficient. The amount currently set aside and shared in the Commission, amounting to 800 thousand. BGN is extremely insufficient. Do not understand that we do not want this Bill to produce the necessary effect. Our desire is simply to make it a working norm from which Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian municipalities can benefit and have a real effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Ahmedov. After that Mr. Genov, you made a request, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The disaster protection law provides for the protection of life and health of people in the event of disasters. This Law and its regulatory framework are the main regulations governing the events related to the protection of the population of disasters in the country. I believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Disasters are timely, imperative, but not sufficient, especially in view of the fact that we have seen significant disasters in degree and character over the last seven-eight years. Seemingly from the reasons of the bill, in the process of implementing the regulatory framework regarding the disaster protection system, incompleteness and problems have been reported. In particular, there is a need to ensure a stronger institutional start to disaster risk management at national, local and regional level. In the original version of the Draft Law Amendment in preparation has been studied and the position of municipalities is taken into account on the main changes concerning their activities, containing several particularly important moments. They are creating a new order for planning and organising preventive activities and new opportunities for targeted financing of such measures. Looking at this Bill, I find that it is very different from the original version of the Law. I am referring to the texts proposed by the National Association of Municipalities. In this regard, I support the opinion of the National Association, which proposes to recover in their original version the texts of art. 6 instead of the texts set out in our proposed Project, which do not give the mayors the opportunity to make adequate management decisions in order to ensure the necessary funding of sites with which they cannot cope locally. In addition, on the occasion of the new texts of art. 6 We share the view that the possibility of targeted priority funding of prevention activities at municipal and regional level will be more objective if the terms and conditions for this are regulated in a regulation of the Council of Ministers. On the occasion of the texts of § 23, art. 41 and the new paragraph providing for the mandatory creation of voluntary formations in municipalities with population of up to 20 thousand people, I have serious doubts that the norm could not be applied in practice. In creating this obligation, no significant factors have been taken into account, such as the lack of enough young people in small towns, as well as the lack of sufficient incentives for volunteers. The project shows a discrepancy in the responsibilities of the institutions; structures with unclear status are being created contrary to the Law on Administration in the area of the award of functions belonging to the executive. I am referring to the proposed in art. 64a and (b) providing for the establishment of a Regional Council to reduce the risk of disasters. The main documents for policy in the field of prevention, prevention, management and overcoming the consequences of disasters, accidents and disasters are the National Programme for Disaster Protection (2014) and the Annual Plan for 2016 for the implementation of the National Programme. In our view, it should be emphasized precisely on the implementation of the annual programmes and, more precisely, their financial security. The disaster protection system needs urgent and real reforms. However, the proposed texts cannot ensure that they are achieved, which, in our view, is a sufficient reason for the bill not to be supported by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Replices, coworkers? I won't. The word for speech has the popular representative Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will be in the same tone as the one who supported both colleagues before me. Let us take seriously between first and second readings of the texts offered to us in this Law. The mayors of municipalities are once again involved in functions which, firstly, are financially unsecured by their delegated budgets; secondly, the municipalities themselves, in most part, do not have this financial opportunity to perform these functions and provide them financially. We were just talking about volunteer formations. Well, we in municipalities under 20,000 can't find people with that age profile to join voluntary formations. I'm guessing there's one of our colleagues here with experience in the local government. I'd like to ask one of them, when he was there, how many volunteers did he attract, and how many did he hire? If a Bulgarian citizen wants to enter such a voluntary formation, he must voluntarily do several things before that. Get a medical certificate from the doctor. It costs money, time, expenses. Secondly, to take a certificate from the psychodispanser in the region concerned that it is not reported. It's still worth money. Third, he needs to get a criminal record issued at the scene. If the person who wants to do this thing lives in the same place, it'll be a little cheaper. In order to submit documents to this committee, which is appointed by the mayor of the municipality in order to be accepted in this voluntary formation, we have to spend several tens of leva. In some municipalities, if it is from a more remote location, it must also pay its transport costs. These costs are between BGN 50 and BGN 100. There is a practice in some municipalities where municipal councils have decided eventually if funds are available to cover these costs. However, as mass practice, a massive and cardinal solution, the Law proposed does not regulate it. I would also like to draw attention to another weak moment in the Law. The mayors are involved in providing means of shelter, starting with tents, wagons, mobile houses and so on. Which municipality has such shelter funds in its assets, besides the reserve fund for municipal housing, separate for such cases. I call again for more serious treatment of the Law that is being proposed. We will abstain at first reading, we will not support it. We will make our proposals between first and second readings, but let us obtain a working Law that will really ensure both prevention and the eradication of damage in the event of disasters and accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u83	Any lines to Mr. Genov? I won't. Are there any other MPs who wish to speak? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters, No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016. Vote 98 MPs: 87, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RISK ASSESSMENT OF THE FOOD CARE. Reports have been submitted to the Committee on Agriculture and Foods (the Committee on Agriculture and Food) leading and to the Committee on Health. Welcome to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u84	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 17 February 2016, discussing the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. The Commission's work was attended by: - from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Mr. Tsvetan Dimitrov - by the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety: Anita Pashova at the Center for Risk Assessment. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dimitrov, who stressed that the proposed draft aims to separate the process of risk assessment on the food chain from the body implementing risk management and control. The Bill provides for a restructuring of the Risk Assessment Centre, which is part of the structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, at the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre (CORHW). The Centre will be a secondary authorising officer to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The Director will be appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Centre will be the body at national level that will carry out a scientifically justified risk assessment through an independent analysis of scientific information in all areas that directly or indirectly affect food and feed safety. It will be the competent authority to assess the authorisation, amendment and withdrawal of authorisations for placing plant protection products on the market and coordinating body in the procedures for the approval of active substances, antidotes and synergists. Opinions will serve as a basis for decision-making. CORHW will work closely with the European Food Safety Authority and will perform similar functions. It will also work with other European and international organisations and with the competent authorities of the Member States and third countries in the food chain. For this purpose it is envisaged that the structure of CORHW should include a contact centre for communication and exchange of scientific information. The functions of the Centre, the management bodies and the means of its financing are described in detail. The respective amendments to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act, the Plant Protection Act and the Food Law were made. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from all parliamentary groups agreed that the removal of the Centre for Risk Assessment of the Structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will ensure the independence of the evaluation and scientific analysis carried out and will allow this assessment to cover all aspects of the food chain with regard to the existing risks, including those which are currently not under the direct control of the Agency and are therefore not part of the evaluation carried out. In this regard, everyone voiced support for the Bill and expressed readiness between the first and second votes to submit concrete proposals to refine the texts. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 19 votes for the Food Chain, No 602-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain, No 602-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. We will now also hear the report of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. At its regular meeting on 25 February 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. The meeting was attended by Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health, experts as well as representatives of trade union, consensus and non-governmental organizations in the field of health. The draft was presented by a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, who pointed out that it provides for a restructuring of the current Risk Assessment Centre established by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act in 2011, at the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre (CORHR) to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The need for the establishment of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre is linked to ensuring independence and impartiality of the risk assessment across the entire food chain of the risk management and control process and therefore follows that the risk assessment body is outside the structure of the authorities controlling those processes. This distinction has been made at European Union level with the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 178/2002. Following this model of the European Commission, a risk assessment body has been established in many countries, which gives an impartial scientific opinion, which is the basis for taking management measures by competent authorities with regard to the safety of the food chain at national level. Such a model was adopted in the Republic of Bulgaria and in 2011 a Risk Assessment Center was established with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act. The existing Risk Assessment Centre now carries out an analysis and provides scientific advice only in those aspects of the food chain that are under the control of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. There are aspects in the food chain that are controlled by other departments. The Regional Health Inspections at the Ministry of Health as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, in order to ensure food safety, it is necessary to consider all aspects of the food chain as a continuous process starting from and including primary production and production of feed until the sale or supply of food to consumers, as any element may have a potential impact on food safety. It is therefore necessary to take into account the production, preparation, transport and distribution of feed used for food to animals grown for the production of food, including the cultivation of animals that may be used for food on fish holdings, as the unintended or deliberate contamination of food for animals, as well as the counterfeiting or practices of fraud or other adverse actions in relation to those activities may have a direct or indirect effect on food safety. It is also necessary to take into account other practices and agricultural production factors at the level of primary production and their potential impact on the overall safety of the food chain. In this respect, it is also necessary to include as a function of the Centre the assessment of the dossiers of plant protection products which affect plant health as part of the food chain. In view of the above, the Risk Assessment Centre should be restructuring at the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre to carry out the scientific analysis and provide a scientific risk assessment in all aspects of the food chain and be outside the structure of any control body. The food chain risk assessment centre will not have control functions on the food chain business operators, will not take management decisions and will not conduct legislative policy, but will provide an objective and impartial scientificly justified analysis that is the basis for the implementation of those processes by the competent authorities at national level. In order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to establish a separate, independent from the control authorities in the current legislation, the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre, by law. This is also necessary for the purpose of administration, as the current Centre for Risk Assessment of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency should be removed from the structure of BABBH at the same time as the creation of the new body "The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain," by amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. After the discussion and after a vote on the following results:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate to give a sign. Here you go, Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u88	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the Bill, and we believe that it is extremely important and extremely necessary. It is unlikely that all people realize the risks that we face every day with the food available in our retail chains and in our food stores at all. This bill pursues several very important objectives that I would like to focus on. First of all, the Committee on Risk Assessment in the Food Chain comes out of the structure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and goes to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This ensures its independence and impartiality because BABBH has the task of controlling it. This Commission goes beyond the controlling authority, which is very positive. Secondly, I stress that the scope is expanding in a horizontal and vertical direction. First, in a horizontal direction, everything that is related to food production, between producers, between structures that serve them and also in a vertical direction: production, buying-in, primary processing, processing in enterprises and finally throughout the commercial network, which is also extremely important. Something else I would like to stress is expanding and the scope of the products that will be controlled. Only those who belong to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency have been controlled so far, and now all plant and animal products come in here. Also, something we've been missing so far, these are imported products. We have highly increased requirements for products that are produced in Bulgaria, but for what comes from the outside, it cannot be said that control was effective enough, so this is something very, very serious. Another thing I would like to point out in third place is that the entire assessment to be carried out is based on scientific foundations. A consultative board will be established for this purpose. We were very interested in what to be a scientific advice to the relevant structure? Perhaps the best is to be an advisory council, because in addition to the specialists who are to this Commission, experts from the scientific institutes will also take part from universities. At the University of Thracian, at the University of Food Technology in Plovdiv there are such laboratories, there are specialists who are extremely prepared. They can enter the Advisory Council and thus provide a much better assessment and, accordingly, what will be offered to consumers will ensure the safety of the consumption of these foods. I believe that the bill is as well prepared as possible, but there are still a few things that we will propose between first and second readings. Once again, I say that we will support this bill and recommend to everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Replices, colleagues, to him? I won't. The word for speech is Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! At our attention is the first reading of the Risk Assessment Bill on the Food Chain. We should remind you that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act was adopted in 2011 and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency established a Risk Assessment Center. Even then, a gross mistake has been made because it cannot, as is also taken into account in the motives of the importers, assess and control, be in the same place that practically happened to our Food Safety Agency. Therefore, the proposed Bill is practically returning us to the normal application of European regulations, which require the risk assessment to be independent of the control bodies performing their functions on the spot. From this point of view, we will support the Bill, but as we look carefully at what is being proposed, we have very substantial remarks. The first, which may be a matter of discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Food as a leader, is: why should it be in the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, provided that the Centre for Risk Assessment actually solves the issues of end-users for their health, as well as the movement from agricultural production to commercial chains? In other words, there are representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Why not rise to a higher level, i.e. this structure to be to the Council of Ministers? By the way, in many countries of the European Union this is also a fact, in addition to carrying out a risk assessment, they also develop methodologies that should be taken into account when managing the food chain. The second thing that also impresses is that the Bill provides for the possibility to hire external experts in order to carry out the scientific service of the Risk Management Centre after the Centre's main function is this scientific service. If you see in the Bill, there is written in each of the functions of the Centre that it must scientifically serve. Hiring outside experts and specialists is, in my opinion, something that should not be allowed in terms of objectivity. Therefore, perhaps again in discussion, we will propose the scientific units of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, in this case it is the Veterinary Medical Institute to switch to the Food Safety Agency. The Institutes at the Agricultural Academy, you know that the Institute for Plant Protection, for example, is also in the structure of the Agricultural Academy in order to be able to use the scientific potential that the Ministry has and has to perform its functions in the way they are described in the European regulations. And last but not least, in the title of the Law, something is missing: the Food Chain Risk Assessment Act. This is the Act establishing a Risk Assessment Center for the Food Chain. The whole law is how we structure this Center. Why should it be for the food chain risk assessment and not the Risk Assessment Centre? There are other cases in the legislation for which we make a Law which defines the rights, obligations, functions that perform a given structure and it is part of our basic obligations and requirements with regard to the implementation of European regulations. We reserve between first and second readings to discuss these issues, to bring them to the attention of our fellow Members, so that a working body is obtained, not just a butaphorical structure which, in some form, leads to the fulfilment of our obligations for the implementation of European regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Belova has the word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! The political party GERB parliamentary group will support the proposed Draft. In the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we have long commented on the proposed bill. All the political forces united around the need for this bill. The risk assessment centre is the missing link at the moment. Its creation will lead to the security of food products from the manufacturer to the final customer. This will bring us closer to leading countries in the field of food control such as Germany and Austria. I completely agree, and I can't help but agree with Professor Scully's statement. Stankov for all the pros that this bill offers. To Mrs. Bachvarova I have only one addition: I believe that precisely hiring external experts specialists will lead to objectivity. In order for this Centre to function and really be objective, it should use the services of the best specialists in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u93	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Rumen Hristov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at an important bill which passed through the Committee on Agriculture and Food with full unanimity on its approval, which once again says that the bill developed by the Council of Ministers and submitted to parliament is well-vised. Of course, proposals will be made between the first and second votes, as the question of further proposals was raised by Prof. Stankov and Prof. Stankov. Bachvarova. I'd like to give a few answers, mostly to Professor. Bachvarova regarding the structure of the Centre for Risk Management, if I may say so. You know that there will be representatives by two deputy ministers from both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. So speaking of food quality, we are by no means missing out on the importance of the health of people and consumers mostly in the face of people. As for whether an advisory or scientific council, we have conducted the discussion and will probably continue it. The aim is to use the best scientific potential in the country to ensure, I repeat, the health of Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian consumers. Where should this structure be? This is also being discussed. You know that the proposal is that the Chairman of the Management Board or Executive Director be appointed by the Prime Minister. Even if it is to the Ministry of Agriculture, when the Prime Minister takes the responsibility to appoint the Executive Director, this means that we also engage the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. You are right about the institutions, but you know there is a reform at the Agricultural Academy. Then we could really raise the issue of the place of the National Veterinary Institute, the Institute of Plant Protection. Yes, they would have a place in the structures of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or partly in the structures of the new Centre for Risk Assessment in terms of their more efficient use and in relation to the upcoming restructuring of the Agricultural Academy. I ask, as you were active in discussing first reading, and in this House, to give your proposal between first and second votes. I have no doubt that the Law will be supported by all MPs, including the Reformation Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u95	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm worried about art. 9 for external experts. I hope that between first and second readings and voting maybe it will clear up and be a little clearer. What bothers me is that there are actually no criteria when they will be used, which means that at some point it can be decided that a hundred percent of all activity will be outsourced, so to speak, to external experts and then there is no point from the Center itself. That's my worry. I hope that the use of external experts will be more specific between the readings and that the exact regulation for their use will be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u98	Dear Mr. Ananiev, in the reasons the importer has explicitly indicated that external experts will be used only if necessary. After the adoption of the Law, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in a regulation or regulation will specify the exact criteria. We are only talking here about the use of external experts where necessary and the lack of potential from the Centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u99	Thank you. Second line? A hole, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u100	Dear Mrs. Belova, thank you for that clarification. The need is clear, but for me it is a little more general. My request is, if you can think about it in the Law itself, if you can't somehow have some regulation that puts the brakes on a hundred percent. It is clear that it cannot happen, but imagine that the director of this institution decided not to do any work and to completely outsource its activities. We're giving him that opportunity right now. Let's think about some text that somehow stops this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill No 602-01-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Point 7 "The Bankruptcy Act" is for tomorrow, as there are not 24 hours from the moment the Commission's report is submitted to the Members of the National Assembly. Moving on to point eight: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC FINLANDS. A report of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance has been presented. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Eugenia Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, No 602-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2016. At a meeting held on 18 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev, Directors of Directorates, Departments Chiefs and experts from the Ministry of Finance and Emil Savov. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ananiev, who pointed out the main reasons for the implementation of the bill, as well as the changes proposed. The main focus is on the financial decentralisation of local authorities and their corresponding responsibilities for the financial situation of municipalities. One of the main motives is the deepening of existing problems related to municipal budgets and the need to take action the budgetary parameters of municipalities to be brought within the requirements of national fiscal rules. The Bill provides for a comprehensive procedure for the financial recovery of municipalities, which includes: - identification of municipalities with fiscal difficulties; - opening a procedure for their recovery; - implementation of a plan for their financial recovery. Six conditions have been defined for the definition of municipalities with financial difficulties, such as the presence of three or more of them being defined as municipalities which are in financial difficulties and must enter this procedure of financial recovery. The procedure for initiating the financial recovery procedure is laid down. The maximum period foreseen for the financial recovery procedure in order to achieve financial sustainability and stability of municipal finances shall be three years. The Law provides for the budget of the municipality with an open procedure for financial recovery to be provided for an opinion of the Minister of Finance, which is examined together with the budget of the municipality in the municipal council. The Bill provides requirements for the mayor of the municipality to ensure publicity and transparency in the actions under the conditions of an open procedure for financial recovery. The changes set objectives for financial recovery of municipalities in an annual and medium-term plan based on an objective analysis of basic financial indicators in order to introduce possible consolidation measures in the management of their finances initiated by the municipal council and after a public discussion in the interest of the local community. An opportunity is envisaged, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance by an act of the Council of Ministers, to grant an additional target subsidy to the municipalities, which will serve to repay a temporary interest-free loan, provided that it is demonstrated by the municipality that the objectives and measures set out in the rescue plan are implemented in accordance with the preliminary guidelines given and the results expected by the municipality for financial recovery. The draft Law also provides for the possibility of limiting the taking-up of debt by institutional units classified by EUROSTAT in the general government sector of hospitals, BDZ, NRIC, in the event that the excess of the debt is more than 60 per cent. The bill provides for an extension of the scope of the published to date official official information on the state and state guaranteed debt. In this regard, the necessary changes to the State Debt Act are envisaged. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural Investment Funds are proposed, which govern the order of payment of financial assistance by means of the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund. Depreciation of provisions for the intended official closure of projects and changes related to compliance with the principles of sound financial management has been proposed. Changes to other laws related to their synchronization with the principles, rules and terminology laid down in the Public Finance Act are proposed. After the presentation was held an extensive discussion, where many opinions and questions were expressed. The Deputy Director of the National Association of Municipalities Emil Savov presented the principle questions on their part, which are the following: - which municipalities will be aided with this project and whether the structural imbalance in their revenue will be overcome; - objectivity and justice of the proposed system; - equality of responsibility and rights; - the need to prepare a methodology for easy and unambiguous calculation of individual indicators, etc. The MPs expressed their principle support for the bill and for the idea to require more serious financial discipline for municipalities and put the merged questions: what is the state of the municipalities and what are the current indicators; what will be the sources of interest-free loans that will finance municipalities; what are the criteria for the assessment of municipalities; what are the European practices for interest-free financing of municipalities; what will be the instrument of the healing programmes that will be applied; the need to distinguish the reasons for the bankruptcy of a municipality; the need for preventive measures and mechanisms for preventing the bankruptcy of municipalities; the need to include the element how many of these municipalities meet the legal conditions and criteria to be municipalities, etc. Deputy Minister Ananiev answered in detail the questions asked. The President of the Commission Menda Stoyanova proposed to establish a working group with the participation of Commissioners to prepare concrete proposals and texts for the second vote of the Draft. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Public Finance Act, No 602-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-09.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Honourable Members, this Bill has been assigned to two more committees: the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The two committees included the Draft Law for a meeting on today and tomorrow, which is why I had foreseen it for a debate in the Chamber on Friday, but because we are very efficient in today's meeting, we came to it. I believe that it is correct to allow the committees that are accompanying to discuss it and come up with a report, which is why I am making a procedural proposal before you to terminate today's meeting. Tomorrow, let's continue, the entire Thursday... dedicated to the 14 draft laws of the Election Code, for Friday the Law on Bankruptcy and then we will complete this bill. Is there a counterproposal, colleagues? [[Noise.]] Please vote on my procedural proposal. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. Successful work of the committees, which later have a meeting today! This plenary sitting is adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
