ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present to you a draft work programme for the National Assembly for 16-18 March 2016. 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers, 7 March 2016 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Legislative Acts. Importers: The Council of Ministers on 1 September 2015; another Draft Law of Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, submitted on 21 October 2015, and a third draft Law 3. Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2016 Importer: Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds of 10 March 2016 4. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2014. Importer: Commission for Protection against Discrimination, 31 March 2015 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Administration. The representatives are Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs of the one Law of 16 January 2015, and Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs from 21 January 2016. It is proposed that this will be the first item for tomorrow's meeting Thursday, 17 March 2016. 6. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. They are: Petar Petrov and a group of MPs of the first Law of 23 January 2015; Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs of 13 May 2015, and the Council of Ministers of 7 January 2016. 7. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 March 2016 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer: Council of Ministers, 16 February 2016 9. First vote on the Bill on Real Estate Credits to Consumers. Importer: Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016 10. Administrative Monitoring Report 2014 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration, 2012 - 2020 Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 May 2015 11. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. On Friday, 18 March 2016, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev will address the National Assembly on the occasion of the completed political consultations. Please vote on the program. Vote 151 MPs: 134, no objection, abstention 17. The work programme for the period 16 March 2016 has been adopted. There have been proposals made under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the first of which is of the MP Velizar Enchev. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to present your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u2	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! For the third time, I submit the proposal for inclusion of a point in the Program of the National Assembly meeting a point to reduce the state subsidy for the parties who received more than 1% in parliamentary elections, which is now BGN 11. per year for a given vote, i.e. BGN 44 For four years. Today, however, the third time I submit this proposal, the situation is completely different. Last week, on a proposal from the Patriotic Front, the ruling quadruple coalition voted at first reading to introduce the mandatory vote, but none of the importers of the idea of compulsory voting revealed the dirty secret of this idea, which is naturally related to money. The dirty secret of the mandatory vote, honourable Members, is that in this vote the state subsidy for the parties who received more than 1% in the elections will be doubled. I repeat: after compulsory vote the parties will receive twice as much subsidy and will become solid party banks or, if you want to call them, solid party savings accounts. This is why GERB, the Patriotic Front, the Reformation Bloc and the ABB voted. I therefore urge those who support the mandatory vote in the right part of this House and in the middle to support my request to include this point in the National Assembly's Programme. Now look at the language of the numbers and all of you who have escaped from this topic, who will vote against my proposal to include this point, should blush and be ashamed. The numbers say that if GERB is currently taking 48 million. lv. in four years, GERB will take almost 100 million in compulsory voting. The reformation bloc now, in four years, is voting for 13 million. 218 thousand. lv. In the event of a mandatory vote, you, anti-communist gentlemen, will take 27 million. lv. The patriotic front...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u3	Time, Mr. Enchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u4	The Patriotic Front: 10 million lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, that is, I suggest, I insist, if you do not support my proposal, at least become on this stand and say that what I am saying is a lie and not true, and that you are not party banks as you are about to become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, as the unspeakable in his procedural statement uttered a lot of untruths and false things. I would like to recall that it was the Patriotic Front that put forward a proposal when considering the state budget to reduce the subsidy from 11 to 6 BGN. That's what the Patriotic Front did, not the one talking. I would like to point out that the previous one, acting as a psychic, has apparently already calculated what the number of votes will be, what will be the value of the claim something that, I think, none of those present can and cannot do. Moreover, it is envisaged that if the proposals for amending the Election Code are adopted, the subsidy will be drastically reduced, and there is consensus here. And the fact that someone, in order not to be interpreted as a false statement, wants to impose a concession on this populism of this tribune [[noise and lines]] It's his problem. Please, when it comes to untruths from people who are not following and absent from parliamentary activity, make a remark to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u7	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Velizar Enchev to include the bill he presented to us in the National Assembly's Work Programme. Vote 128 MPs: 33, against 40, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov for inclusion in the program: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to be included as a point in the forthcoming weekly Programme of the National Assembly from 16 to 18 March 2016. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554 01 169, submitted on 4 November 2015 by the National Representatives Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. A report has been drawn up on the bill by a leading parliamentary committee. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am making a procedural proposal to withdraw this proposal, as the attitude of the Conference of Presidents has been informed is such that it is seen next week. In this situation, it is pointless to have a discussion or vote on this point. I just want to allow myself to inform you, fellow Members, that this bill has never been rejected in plenary. It has been supported so far in the Commission, has successfully passed first reading, and only procedurally it has not been allowed until the time for consideration, but since the attitude of the chairmen of parties, given the overcrowded programme this week, is to be considered in the next, I am making a procedure for withdrawing this proposal. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u9	I would not have put the proposal to the vote anyway, as it does not meet the requirements of art. 50, para. The 3rd sentence of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "When a proposal is rejected by the National Assembly, the MPs and the parliamentary groups may make the same proposal not earlier than one month. This happened on 17 February 2016, today is March 16th, so there is no way to put it to a vote. These are the circumstances that I am telling you to understand why the Conference of Presidents has decided not to be put to the vote. We have one more suggestion: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 16 March 2016 to include First reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 554-01-136, as of 16 July 2015. Importers: Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. The proposal was made by the MPs Mihail Mikov and Mariana Boyadjieva. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill for amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, which we are proposing, provides for the introduction of new norms that limit the possibility of broadcasting programmes that show cruelty and violence. In a number of European countries, such programmes, which contain cruelty and violence, are not subject to absolute prohibition by the Law, but could harm the physical and mental development of the individual, cannot be broadcast within certain time limits. Our suggestion is that this be between 7:00 and 10:00. With the bill, we also propose that the composition of the Council for Electronic Media be renewed to three years with a new member of the National Assembly's quota and the President's quota, and every sixth year with two new members of the National Assembly's quota and a new member of the President's quota. We will thus be able to restore justice because, following legal changes in 2010, the principle of systematic renewal and continuity in the composition of the Electronic Media Council has been violated. We also introduce new requirements regarding the members of the CEM to have no citizenship other than Bulgarian and to have at least five years of professional experience. The current legislation relating to the volume of commercial advertising is imperfect. Therefore, we propose that, in relation to the Single Standard for regulation of sound levels in advertising, which is applied in Europe, the measurement of three basic characteristics of the sound signal: an integrated thunder of sound throughout the program or transmission; a range of thunder levels in the transmission; and a maximum level of sound signal. Since the Law now allows children's broadcasts to be interrupted by a advertising spot, and this is, in our view, unacceptable, because children perceive everything that is given in a broadcast without being able to distinguish advertising from the rest of the content, we aim to ensure that consumers' interests are protected more fully in the case where television viewers are children, not allowing advertising to be broadcast during children's shows. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that you will appreciate the importance of the proposals we are making with this Bill and will support its inclusion on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Mihail Mikov and Mariana Boyadjieva for inclusion in our weekly Programme of the so presented Bill. They voted 116 MPs: 43, against 3, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedural proposal. 3 of the National Assembly's Work Programme to stay for Friday. I was going to suggest it as a t. 1 for Friday, but I think it is a good idea to comply with the President's wish to address us at 9:00 and leave it as a point, immediately after the President's address to the National Assembly. My argument is that it makes sense when we look at this subject, to invite MEPs to participate in this work. They are meeting today and tomorrow in Brussels. You know that a conference is taking place today in Brussels on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, where we are also part of our fellow Members, who have a direct bearing on European issues. I believe that the discussion will not be complete if they cannot participate here, as well as if we do not invite MEPs to the European Parliament. Let me say something that has a direct link to this proposal, so that I do not become a second time, that European issues are systematically ignored by the Prime Minister and respectively by the National Assembly. We do not carry out our duties under our own Rules. I would like to draw attention to art. 122, where it is said that the National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in forthcoming meetings of the European Council. One of the most important European Council meetings on migration and on the European semester are held this week, on a report killing for Bulgaria, which was presented by the European Commission. I think it would have been useful and important to hear what the Prime Minister's position would have been. The second element is art. 124, where it is said that in the performance of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution at the beginning of every 6 months period of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly a report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union. Such a report has been submitted, but we have not heard from the Prime Minister's report to the National Assembly since the beginning of this term, as provided for in the Rules. I pay attention to the leadership of the National Assembly and to the leaders of political groups to provide for this to happen in the foreseeable future, I hope, as early as next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. One thing at a time. I'm afraid if you accept your proposal to move the item. 3 on Friday, it will be at the expense of parliamentary control. But let the House decide whether to accept your proposal. These were the considerations to be like t. 3. Article 122 reads: The National Assembly may hold a hearing of the Prime Minister... You understand what the word can mean. For art. 124 You have very politely said that the report has been submitted. It is on our initiative that this report should be reviewed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin. 3 in the already adopted Programme to be dealt with on Friday after the President's address. Please vote. They voted 118 MPs: 47, against 17, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, allow me to introduce you to a communication on draft and draft decisions from 9 March 2016 to 15 March 2016. On 9 March 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act was adopted. Importers are Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On 9 March there was a bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code with importer Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 10 March 2016, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016. The importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. On 12 March, a Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds are attached. On 14 March 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Religions Act with importers Vassil Antonov and a group of MPs was adopted. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. The Committee on Budget and Finance is attached. An Economic and Social Council Report for 2015 was received on 15 March. The Economic and Social Council is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 10 March 2016, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 3 for 2016 of the Constitutional Court on the status of the Constitutional Tribunal. No 6 of 2015. By its decision the Constitutional Court shall rule at the request of 62 MPs from the Forty-third National Assembly and declare the provision of art. 45, para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute for January 2016 on the following indicators: R &amp; D indexes, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles; indexes of industrial production; indexes of construction production; as well as information on consumer price indices for February and final data for January 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 9 March 2015, the National Assembly received a detailed Report on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' programming budget for 2015. The report was made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. On 15 March 2016, the National Assembly received a Report on the extent of the implementation of the established policy in the field of the implementation of special intelligence funds and the budget of the Programme. The report was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We can now move on to the agenda we have adopted. Point one is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE AND LAW FOR JUDGE POWER. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016 under No 602-01-10 in the National Assembly. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be briefed by its President, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. At its meeting on 9 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Justice Ms. Ekaterina Zaharieva Minister, Mrs. Krasimira Filipova Deputy Minister, Mr. Blagovest Punev Affiliate; from the Supreme Court of Cassation Ms. Tanya Mitova Judge, Mrs. Kapka Kostova Judge; from the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev Vice-President; from the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) Mr. Dimitar Uzunov. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. The amendments proposed in the Bill are in line with the adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and are in line with the basic measures provided for in the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. The bill aims to ensure the status of the Supreme Judicial Council as an independent and effective body guaranteeing transparent appointments to the judiciary and enjoying the trust of the public and the judges, prosecutors and investigators. The envisaged change in the structure and organisation of the SJC is aimed at strengthening the independence of the judiciary, not allowing members of the SJC who represent prosecutors and investigators to participate in the resolution of personnel and disciplinary matters of judges and vice versa. The decisions on appointment, promotion and release of magistrates are intended to be taken separately by the College of Judges and the College of Prosecutors and Investigators under the conditions of open vote and without abstention. The draft provides for the establishment of permanent committees on the attestations and contests to each of the two colleges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court, in which, in addition to members of the College, the members of the College are to participate acting magistrates elected respectively for the College of Judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice, and for the Prosecutors of the General Assembly of the Prosecutors of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and by the General Assembly of Investigators of the National Investigation Service. The jurisdiction of the SJC shall remain the resolution of the common judicial system issues such as budget, annual reports on the activities and management of the real estate of the judiciary, as well as other issues of common competence. The proposal for the introduction of qualified majority for the adoption of all decisions on personnel issues aims to prevent the SJC's parliamentary quota from determining the judiciary's personnel policy on its own. Transparency in decision-making by both colleges and the plenary shall be ensured by the requirement for a clear vote and the non-restraint of voting. The proposed bill explicitly excludes the possibility for members of the SJC to receive additional remuneration for their participation in committees with the Council. The Bill proposes detailed regulation of the choice of members of the SJC from the quota of the National Assembly. It is envisaged that the nomination of the MPs must indicate which of the two colleges the specific candidate is proposed for. The choice is proposed to be made among magistrates, habilitated scholars of legal sciences, lawyers or other lawyers with high professional and moral qualities. A guarantee for the election of professionals with undisputed authority is the proposed qualified majority to take the decision by the National Assembly, according to which they should have voted no less than 2/3 of the MPs. The bill provides for the introduction of direct election of members of the SJC from the Magistrate quota, ensuring broad representativeness and transparency, clear conditions and secret voting. A detailed framework for nominations and rules for the conduct of elections from the professional quota is proposed; rules on the validation of templates and the printing of ballots; the publicity of the General Assembly; the presence of observers in all phases of the electoral process, as well as on the determination, announcement and challenge of election results. In addition to voting by paper ballots, the Transitional and Final Provisions provide for the possibility of conducting votes by electronic means or by machine voting. The Transitional and Final Provisions are provided within three months of the entry into force of the law, for real estate and movable property of the judiciary to be transferred to the Supreme Judicial Council, with all related documentation. Representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council expressed principle support for the submitted bill, such as Ms. Milka Itova and Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev expressed reservations about certain specific provisions. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Philip Popov, Dimitar Lazarov, Cetin Kazak and Chavdar Georgiev. Mr. Slavov expressed his support for the submitted Bill and raised a question as to whether a mixed composition of judges from the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court did not create a special jurisdiction. People's representatives Filip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev expressed an opinion against the submitted Bill due to its inability to achieve efficiency and pointed out some ambiguities, such as the creation of mixed courts ad hoc, the meaning of the concept of the most senior and the expression "no abstention" is allowed. The other MPs supported the submitted Bill, with Mr. Lazarov expressing reservations about the envisaged simple majority for decision-making by the two colleges on some issues, and Mr. Kazak pointed out his arguments against the intended clear vote in decision-making on personnel issues. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, 2 votes against the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For the presentation of the bill on behalf of the importer there is the Minister of Justice Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the only thing I would like to emphasise is that the report of the Legal Committee has indeed been detailed and the main point in the Bill is that the proposed bill has been drawn up with the participation of all interested parties. As we set out in the Rules of Judicial Reform, representatives of each of the parliamentary groups were invited, at their request, to take part in the Council itself and before that, in the working groups, for which I thank you. I am convinced that this is one of the reasons why the Bill, which is at your attention, receives such a large majority in the Legal Committee, which I hope we will see today and in this House. There are many important things in it, but the most important thing will be with today's vote, if it is really supported by such a broad majority as has been shown in the Legal Commission, to show mostly Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian magistrates that we have the necessary broad political support for substantial reform of the judiciary. This is not because we receive reports every year and not because we have a mechanism, but because this reform is the reform that is expected, perhaps with the greatest desire of the entire Bulgarian society. Thank you indeed for participating in the working group and in the Council, for the constructive conversation and presentation of the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I believe that the proposed bill is indeed balanced. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have also explained some of the concerns that have been mentioned and precisely the emphasis on establishing a special mixed composition between judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court in questioning the direct choice is a guarantee of trust in this direct choice. Another novelty that is not in the Constitution, but is extremely important and is supported by very, very broad and even unanimous by the Council, is the creation and inclusion of active magistrates with high professional and moral qualities, enjoying great trust among the Magistrate communities in the committees on attestations and competitions. This is one of the European Commission's recommendations. The entire bill is made with great attention, reflects very full and develops the provisions of the Constitution. The qualified majority envisaged in both colleges, in all personnel decisions, in making decisions, I stress on all personnel decisions not only in appointments, but also in disciplinary proceedings, internal promotions in office or rank, external competitions, is a guarantee that we and the Venice Commission are the only ones who will not be able to make the parliamentary quota on their own. In this way, high confidence and representativeness will also be achieved for those who will be promoted and appointed to the judiciary. Once again, thank you and may the Bill truly receive such support as it received in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u17	Thank you, dear Minister. I'm opening the debate. The word has the people's representative Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u18	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! From the Reformation Block, we will support this bill. I think all his colleagues will support him. We have also supported it in the Commission, and it really deserves to be supported, and Mrs Zaharieva's team, and of course, and she herself as the team leader, deserve to be praised and encouraged for the efforts, because indeed in a very short period of time they managed to prepare this bill, managed to take the positions of all stakeholders and, to a large extent, it is the subject of mutual compromise and consensus. In it we see some of the things that are important, which unfortunately, in the changes to the Constitution did not happen, but here is the opportunity at least somewhat sought, then, which a large part of the MPs in this Chamber had, namely to guarantee the independence of the court and, of course, the non-interference of politicians in decision making, to be achieved. This is achieved by some qualified majority for the important decisions in the colleges, which respectively provide for a minimum of 8 votes in the judges' college and a minimum of 6 votes in the College of Prosecutors and Investigators, so that they can make the most important decisions on their own. In other words, these decisions will also be taken without the participation of the votes of the so-called political quota. However, the political quota itself cannot decide without the participation of magistrates. This is quite important to me and perhaps the optimal that can be achieved on the path of legislative change after the other division of the colleges provided for in the Constitution has been dropped. I also see that the direct choice that we have been pushing so hard for is written down, which is very important. I see that the obvious vote has also been taken and it is stated that it is clearly voted on, even more so, that there can be no abstention from a vote. It must be clearly stated in the votes in the SJC whether it is a member or is it a member of the SJC, there is no abstention. Let's get to the very choice of how the members of the Supreme Judicial Council will be elected from the Magistrate quota this so-called "direct choice" which is extremely important and where I see something disturbing and I use the case that Mrs. Zaharieva is here to say it and I think that between the two readings we should think in this direction about the relevant changes. The Bill provides that these general meetings shall meet in the event of a quorum and that the quorum shall be determined to be present more than half of the magistrates on the list concerned from the total number of magistrates. But what happens if this quorum is gone? A meeting shall be held after a delay for one hour, on the basis of the persons present. From here we now come to the very decision, that is, the very vote for the election of magistrates as members of the Supreme Judicial Council, and it is said that they are elected by more than half of the actual ballots, which, you yourselves understand, colleagues, that it is something different from that initial quorum, and could mean if, for example, it drags on, so little by a party term a very long general meeting that lasts until the small hours of the night, in the end there are not so many people delegates left, in this case there are actually no magistrates present at this meeting and they practically take this decision by majority more than half of the actual votes. It seems to me that this is not only not good, but it may also prove dangerous, i.e. to make decisions with insufficient representation of the entire Magistrate community. It seems to me that here the best solution was to really bet on the possibility of electronic voting, i.e. absent from the general assembly magistrates being able to vote electronically via the Internet from where they are located. What is interesting here is what really bothers me is that in the current law on the judiciary since 2012, the amendments that are in force have indicated that within 30 months the electronic voting system for this direct election of magistrates must be built. You know that the current Law provides for such a direct choice Moreover, nine months before the expiry of the term of office of the current Supreme Judicial Council, an experimental choice has been made, i.e., a very decent procedure has been scheduled to ensure that electronic voting is carried out along with paper, standard voting and that it ensures really maximum representativeness. In the Bill we are looking at, we see in paragraphs 75 and 76 that there is a text which actually goes against this rule of the Act in force and which says that an electronic vote could be made if the Supreme Judicial Council implements such a system. Here we give an assessment to the Supreme Judicial Council, an uncertainty when it pleases to implement this system, only then. For me, it is important that there is indeed a clear deadline here, that it is stated in what time the Supreme Judicial Council will have to be ready with the voting system and that it can really be tested before the appropriate election and voted with it. The most interesting thing in all this is that the Supreme Judicial Council has done quite a lot of serious work on this issue, including funding from European funds. A project has been conducted, which has been called Electronic Justice, for the development of an electronic portal and so on, including for the development of the electronic voting system. From what I read in this Project, which has been completed, there is also a report to the Supreme Judicial Council by the Head of the Rumen Georgiev Project, it is stated in practice that things are fulfilled and I, in the way I understand it, is that there is actually readiness. Let us make this clear between the two readings, and if there is really a willingness, as this report says, I will also provide it to the Minister, I suppose she knows it, but in any case I will leave it to her, I suppose there is no obstacle then to really have an electronic choice even in the next elections for the Supreme Judicial Council, all the more so that they are not until in 2017, when it is quite possible for us to have an electronic vote and for all kinds of elections put into the Election Code. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here's a line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Slavov, I'm taking a line from you about the occasion......................... By the way, I would like to inform you that recognition of a quorum in this way is an internationally recognised practice, otherwise, if this practice is not introduced on a global scale, this means that such an event may never be held, whether it be a general meeting, or in this case a meeting to elect a Supreme Judicial Council. This is, again, a world practice that has given and proved its proper action. By the way, from now on, I will tell you that this is how the Law, which we from the Patriotic Front will also support, must be extended for hours and perhaps days. However, remember that the Law allows these meetings to be monitored online, to participate online in the discussion on the election of the Supreme Judicial Council, and we cannot from any such situation, if I may say so, in the Law to introduce an electronic vote. I'm going to ask you: How will you be sure that it is the relevant prosecutor or judge or investigator who will vote? How will you identify him? Given that you do not have such a system and there is no chance that it will soon be built. This one time. Second, how do you know that if used for example a conference link [[the President signals that time has run out]] This magistrate won't be given a side factor to vote the right way? Let us not spread out in our imaginations and create greater and more dangerous precedents than precedents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u21	Thank you. I'll give you the floor, Madam Minister, let's finish the procedure. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Slavov, last night at Group I almost joked that the weight of the provisions relating to the holding of the General Assembly and the direct election of magistrates is a mini Election Code. Indeed, the burden of the rules governing the conduct of the general meeting and the direct choice is enormous. It's too big! But this was at the insistence of judges who obviously had reason to be paranoid about matter, including developing various electoral exotics. I stress that this is not inherent matter for this regulation, that the purpose of direct choice and the guaranteed opportunity for the magistrate to participate directly does not need such a volume of legal norms. I am also convinced that, subsequently, when these procedures start and direct choices are made, the practice itself will impose simpler rules. I do not want to comment on the machine, electronic and remote electronic voting and on your proposals, however, this is your right to offer them between first and second readings, but I do not think that at first reading this is the appropriate accent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u23	Thank you. Third line? I won't. Mr. Slavov, you have an opportunity for a back-up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Colleagues, I may not have been clear enough, so let me say it again in the current Law on the Judiciary provides for such direct choice by e-voting. It must in practice have already entered into force because this 30-month period of 2012 has expired and it is currently intended to be implemented. See § 33 of the Law and you'll find out what I mean. What bothers me is that we, with the changes we are making, are practically blocking this already scheduled procedure under which it has been working and which is obviously quite done, because this project for millions of levs has been implemented, the electronic portal is ready, and as far as I have information, even already functioning. So let's really not deny what we've done so far and not miss it, but use it. As to whether magistrates could be pressured to vote on the Internet, so-called remote electronic voting in direct choices, colleagues, if we magistrates do not believe that they will resist the pressure and be honest, how do we expect them to solve cases for millions of levs of great legal interest and so on? I think that can't be an argument in this case, we can't go to extremes in our doubts. There are mechanisms to ensure the secret of the vote and the security of the vote. I'm sure that's what this project is all about. Let us consider between the two readings what the Supreme Judicial Council has achieved, working on this project and really adopting it, not with a text that is insufficiently defined, to block the introduction of these norms. Otherwise, let me remind you again that we have all attended endless party meetings, which last until the little hours of the night, and we very well know what happens at the end of the day when the delegates present are tired and when their only wish is really, if they can, finally go home and, if possible, finish all the votes. Let us not allow such practices to happen here. Moreover, the Bill provides that during two weekends these general meetings will be able to continue until the vote is over. You understand, the magistrates have families, they have other commitments, and these are still their weekends to devote themselves to such a thing, provided that by e-voting things can end on the first day of the meeting, it seems absolutely bordering on abuse over these people. It is very important, you understand all, especially the first choice, the first direct choice for members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Magistrate quota to be conducted successfully, to be carried out qualitatively, really in maximum representativeness, because for the first time this thing is happening and it is very important how we will actually implement it the first time. If it gets dirty the first time, I don't have to comment anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, you have the right at any time to take the floor if you want to, on separate issues in the course of the debate, at the end too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really extremely important is not only the first choice, but all direct elections. This is one of the most significant amendments to this Law, which I am convinced will have many, many direct consequences for independence and for the quality of work of the Supreme Judicial Council. Perhaps there is some ambiguity in the text and precisely because I agree that the goal is maximum broad representation and participation, which is why it is scheduled on two Saturdays and Sundays. On the first week, the authorities shall be selected and the candidates heard and the possibility of online broadcasting shall be provided. That's where the quorum is required. Then the magistrate himself can decide from home to watch it, he can ask his questions in writing. But at the second week with fixed hours, just to not get this, we all know about 30-hour general meetings, finally, when we have to vote, there remains no more than one-third of the delegates even, so I believe that this is exactly the way the bill proposed, guarantees a really wide participation. On the second week from 8.00 to 16.00 which of the magistrates when he went to vote was his choice. The point is that in the end, in order for the results to be valid, they must have voted more than half of all. Of course, there must be actual ballots, because otherwise there is no way to account for the choice. So this was the purpose of the proposed provisions. The future electronic remote voting. Here I fully agree with the provision proposed was because of the request of a part of the judges to have a machine and to focus on the machine voting, rather the provision that we proposed was so written that if the system is ready, we should not go to a machine that is obsolete, we should go to an electronic remote voting. If there's any ambiguity in it, it can really be corrected, but I think that's what she's saying right now. Of course, in ensuring the secret of the vote, of course, in ensuring free will. The system has been developed. I know about it, it hasn't been implemented yet, and it needs to be tested. You really need to see if there's a guarantee of the secret, whether it works well. So the members of the Supreme Judicial Council themselves, when we debated, they themselves want and I will do everything possible to go to an electronic remote vote, but none of us is convinced that the system is working. That's why this text is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u27	Thank you. I will tell you the MPs who have signed up for speeches so far: Lachezar Nikiforov from the parliamentary group of ABB, Philip Popov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, Dimitar Delchev from the parliamentary group of the Reformist bloc. There's a word for Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will give you the opinion of the ABB Parliamentary Group. It has been one year since the adoption of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of justice. The amendments to the Constitution are also in force, in the part of the judicial authority. In addition to the first in a few broad expert discussions in the National Assembly, we raised the issue of amendments to the Law on the Judiciary relating to the separation of the Supreme Judicial Council into colleges, the direct election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the Magistrate Communities, e-Justice, then we proposed the establishment of the Reform Council of the National Assembly, as an advisory body to assist the institutions in implementing the updated reform strategy, to draw up an action plan and to be an arena of consensus on important issues for reform. The ABB also had its leading role in the constitutional debate. We supported in December the amendments to the Constitution relating to the reorganization of the judiciary's personnel body, by strengthening the role and functions of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, by dropping the secret vote, with the access of citizens to the Constitutional Court. I'm saying we didn't allow political influence in the department. We are now actively involved in the work under the Law on the Judiciary and in the work of the established Council on the implementation of the updated strategy, chaired by the Minister of Justice. We have the idea that changes in laws, directly or indirectly related to the reform of justice, should be widely discussed, discussed with all stakeholders. One year later, we continue to be convinced that reform is possible and it is possible if agreement is reached if specific legislative policies are given priority, not political policy, if we listen to the experts, the people who will be conducting the reform, in the academic community. Today the ABB will support the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, prepared by the Ministry of Justice and submitted by the Council of Ministers. This amendment to the Law on the Judiciary reflects the amendments to the Constitution, but also applies what is set out in the updated strategy, follows the completely adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the stated will to improve the capacity of the Supreme Judicial Council, transparency and professional direction in its work. The project is a product of the Council's work on implementing the updated strategy for continuing the reform of justice, chaired by the Minister of Justice. The results it achieves are optimal. There are probably also discussion issues, but as principles and philosophy the project should be supported. ABB's support to the Bill is also support to the Minister. It should be noted that the Minister of Justice is currently demonstrating a qualitatively new approach as Chairman of the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy, enabling all interested parties to participate in the writing and implementation of the Law, seeking dialogue and consensus. The ABB will ensure that the subsequent amendments to the Law on the Judiciary ensure, among other things, that the desired self-government of magistrates, achieve the high efficiency and meaning of the attestation, of disciplinary proceedings, so that these changes lead only to a rapid, effective, predictable and fair trial. The ABB will insist and support every effort to ensure that these amendments to the Law on the Judiciary do not exhaust judicial reform and that all proposed changes to the National Assembly are changes not in pieces, but in concert, with analysis and with clear objectives for achieving. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Nikiforov. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Mr. Philip Popov of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u30	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We cannot solve problems because we use the same way of thinking that we used when we created them. Thus, the proposed Bill practically repeated the amendments you voted on in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and these changes do not solve the problems of the judiciary, even to a large extent deepen them. They are deepening them, among other things, because of the fact that public resources and time are being wasted, aimed in the wrong, irrational direction, in the direction of irresponsible to solve the problems, the real problems of the judiciary, such as the imbalance in the workload of courts, the speed and quality of the process, training and personnel provision of the system itself, openness and incompetence of the same. In order to ensure more transparency and independence, it is proposed that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the judiciary quota be elected directly by secret ballot, respectively, from judges, prosecutors, investigators. Thus described, however, the procedure implies precisely the opposite: influence on magistrates, especially in the week-long period between the first and second votes, between the presentation of candidates and the vote for them, and the lack of representation in the rest of the country, outside Sofia, of course, where the elections will take place, because according to art. 29l, para. 1 the vote is secret and will be carried out with a paper ballot according to a model approved by the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, which is placed in a selective box. The box, honourable MPs, is here in Sofia and is voted for the whole country. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, it is quite blanquet, but since it is perhaps modern, it is written that: in case, before the election, the Supreme Judicial Council implemented a system to ensure the secrecy of the vote and the free volition, the electronic vote cancels the possibility of voting with the newsletter. Dear colleagues, what is this system that can guarantee free volition? You are clearly aware that free will and technology are on different planes, both philosophically and logically?! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29d, para. 4 I think that an unconstitutional text is being introduced, creating a hell of a court consisting of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court, that is, a mixed court. Here it is written that: The decisions on the admissibility of the proposals can be appealed within three days before a Chamber consisting of three judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and two judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, determined on the principle of random selection by electronic distribution. The decision shall be renewed within seven days of the lodging of the complaint and shall be final. Maybe this is the place to remind you of art. 119 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which reads: The administration is carried out by the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court, appeals, district, military and regional courts. Exceptional courts shall not be made available. What are the emergency courts? Those who are created for a particular case, hell of a hock. Doesn't that correspond to the term "extraordinary courts"?! In my opinion, this text is absolutely unconstitutional! How to comment on the new para. 4 of art. 34 in which it is written, I quote: "No abstention is allowed. Reading this paragraph, the only meaningful and logical conclusion is that non-voting is not allowed, i.e. inaction, and not voting, which is perhaps the idea of the importer. However, this idea does not correspond to the idea of free will and independence of magistrates after they are shown how to vote, and clearly so. The aim is obviously easy control over them by both the leaders of the relevant colleges and by interested good persons. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 it is written that the members of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the general meetings of the VKP, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office and the investigation shall also be included in the composition of the Committee on Attestation and Competitions, as well as in the Plenum of the VCC. Let me remind you that the members of the SJC are elected by a majority of two thirds of the MPs and with a direct choice from all magistrates precisely according to this proposal, according to this Bill. It is as if in the National Assembly committees, in addition to MPs, to participate as members and people proposed by the parliamentary groups. In this regard is also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Law, according to which during their term of office the magistrates of the Supreme Judicial Council should suspend the performance of their duties as magistrates, which also applies to all other members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Firstly, the volume of activity of the SJC is too high to be able to be performed qualitatively in the continuation of the magistrate's functions. Secondly, multiple hypotheses will be created for a clear conflict of interest. Thirdly, the role of the administration of the Supreme Judicial Council will be strengthened inevitably, illegally and irrevocably, which will practically take most of the functions and powers of the SJC, respectively, of its members. It's gonna be backstage at the administration level. Again there will be no representatives from the courts outside Sofia, because they will most likely be determined by the plenary, as recorded, and these committees will include magistrates who in practice work in the courts and prosecution in Sofia. Dear Members of the National Assembly, despite the conviction with which this Bill is offered to us, I think that it is not in line with the real problems in the judiciary's system.. it does not solve them; it does not have the character of a comprehensive, logical and purposeful bill, but remains a taste for work per piece, without a clear and justified purpose and consequence of its adoption. The bill only repeats the recent amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and they in themselves guarantee the lack of real, consistent and necessary reform of the judiciary system and an apology note for the class leaders from Brussels. I'm going to finish, as I started, and we can't solve the problems by using the same way of thinking that we used when we created them. Because of these and other incompletes, I could not support this Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Mr. Ivanov asked for the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please put to the vote the procedure I propose for a 30-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u33	Mr. Ivanov, I'll give you the rest without a vote. You'll have half an hour. I'm calling a recess at 10:40 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u34	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. For the next speech was signed by the People's Representative Dimitar Delchev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Delchev. After him are the MPs Rosen Petrov and Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are at the first reading of the Law on the Judiciary, I will not go into details, as colleagues before me have spoken and entered into specific texts and regulations. Rather, I intend to express the principled situation, which is why the Reformation bloc will support the bill. In January 2015, this National Assembly adopted an updated judicial reform strategy on the basis of which amendments to the Constitution were adopted. However, reform in the judiciary cannot begin without the National Assembly adopting the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Perhaps many colleagues, and we have already heard this from the left, will criticise the bill for not being enough. Regarding whether it is sufficient or not, I dare agree that much more can be done in the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. However, I would like to remind you that this is the first stage of judicial reform, the beginning of judicial reform and the Ministry of Justice has committed itself to introducing a second bill with much more amendments. I would like to remind those who complain about the failure of this Bill that judicial reform has been going on for more than a year and this is the first Law in its implementation. However small this step is, it is very difficult and very important, so it needs to be supported. Again to fellow Members on the left who criticised this Bill for one thing or another, I will say that he went through many public discussions, through many working groups, through the Judicial Reform Council and in these forums he received almost in all his text unanimous support from professional terms. This is very important, colleagues. It is precisely those terms that the bill concerns the Union of Judges, the Prosecutor's Office, the lawyer's office, the investigation. I therefore believe that with the unification of political parties for this bill, a strong impetus can be given to reform ahead. What is positive for the Reformation bloc is that two very important ideas are being introduced, which we have advocated since the start of judicial reform. These are the clear vote on the Supreme Judicial Council and the direct election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council by judges and prosecutors. With regard to the obvious vote, I would like to remind you that for decades the Supreme Judicial Council has been voting in secret. The Reformation bloc has always declared itself transparent in the choice and exercise of power. We are very happy that transparency in the rule of the judiciary will be implemented with this Bill. In fact, ten months ago, the obvious vote on the Supreme Judicial Council was unthinkable, it seemed like a good hope. I would like to remind you that it fell out of the historical compromise and was about not to enter the Constitution, but thanks to the efforts of colleagues from the Reformation bloc and the support of GERB and the other political forces, it has entered and can now be realized in practice. The obvious vote is a counterpoint of the secret vote of the Supreme Judicial Council, which is the mask in the decision-making of the Supreme Judicial Council, and behind the masks there is no independence, there is opaqueness. As I mentioned, for decades we have been secretly voting in the Supreme Judicial Council, there are huge doubts that the vote is again being made dependent and under some control. With a clear vote, people will have the opportunity to see who votes for what, they will have the opportunity to understand the reasons for a decision of this so important body in the judiciary, so when they ask who elected the President of the Sofia City Court, as in Vladimira Yaneva's case, to know who was behind her choice. With regard to the direct election of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council by judges and prosecutors, this is also a very important decision because it has so far been done with delegates' meetings. The absence of mediators between the individual judge and the person he chooses guarantees personal commitment to both the judge and his elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council guarantees personal responsibility. The good thing is that the procedure provides for an opportunity to ask questions from each of the magistrates and the applicant's obligation as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council is to answer these questions; it also provides for an effective vote by introducing modern methods of machine and electronic voting. I believe that the modernisation of the judiciary, which is coming with the Law on Electronic Justice, is also key and is hinted, given, opens the way for this process in the judiciary. For this and many other reasons, we will support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary for the sake of the Supreme Judicial Council, the other good decisions that were supported by everyone in the Development Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. A line on Mr. Delchev's statement? I can't see. The people representative Rosen Petrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center has the floor for speech. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, I say that we will support the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary at first reading. They are a direct consequence of our attitude towards the constitutional changes that we have supported. Hardly anyone can argue how much more democratic and more open it is for the Supreme Judicial Council to be divided into two colleges, for magistrates to be elected directly, which can also lead to control of those who have chosen to know who chooses who. I do not think that with these changes, Bulgarian justice will suddenly become better with a magic wand, that it will immediately provide a faster and fairer process, but I think they are a big step towards this change. Like other colleagues, I would like to highlight the role of Minister Zaharieva in adopting this Law, in its drafting, as it has shown itself to be a divisive and consensual person. Once again, I repeat the position of our group, which is clear, open, and we will support at first reading the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. A line? I can't see. For speech is the word of the independent MP Velizar Enchev. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! This may sound strong to you, but today is the day of the great hypocrisy in the National Assembly. There is talk of an independent judiciary, and this National Assembly will vote for the election or more precisely for the designation of 11 members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Is this the independent justice system? The height of hypocrisy is § 1, para. Two and three. I'm quoting al. 2 states: "The judicial authority is independent. Alinea 3 also says: "The justice is carried out in the name of the people. " Well, how will the Supreme Judicial Council, honourable Members be independent, then voting and after these proposals? How will he judge in the name of the people when 11 people in the Supreme Judicial Council will be elected by the parties in parliament? Basically, that would be a party choice. I will ask: since the National Assembly is making political appointments to the Supreme Judicial Council, this is the so-called "parliamentary quota" - how will these judges be independent? Whose judges or prosecutors will be elected to the Supreme Judicial Council from the parliamentary quota of the people, as stated in para. 2, or the party that installed them in the Supreme Judicial Council? Of course, the answer is so simple that I shouldn't say it. Honourable Members, if there is to be an independent judicial system, the parliamentary quota in the Supreme Judicial Council must be completely and immediately abolished. This is the cruel truth that you will not accept, however, as you must, everyone in this House wants to control the judiciary. I want to say something very important, which is a little bit of talk here, or at least one colleague has spoken. It is controversial the idea of the so-called vote abstention not to vote abstention. I propose that there should be no vote in the National Assembly, either. It is particularly unacceptable to drop the secret vote because a public secret is that a clear vote is a prerequisite for a controlled vote and pressure on members of the Supreme Judicial Council. As far as I know, Mrs. Zaharieva is against the secret vote and for a clear vote. Naturally, Mrs. Zaharieva will oppose the secret vote, as how can the government control the judicial system in its person. Mrs. Zaharieva's position doesn't surprise me at all. I would like to say to you, honourable Members, that if there was no secret vote in the Bulgarian Parliament, Maya Manolova would never have become the Ombudsman of the Republic, as you of GERB in a clear vote would never have given your vote for it, that is, you would not have voted on conscience. Finally, when I end up talking about the obvious vote that, in the case of communism, reminding the right-hand side of the room where the most prominent anti-communists are, not to forget Metodi Andreyev, where he is, from the GERB party, I address you, fellow anti-communists, to remind you that in communism all votes have been opened, including in the National Assembly. [[(Comments from ……]] It was also clear at the party meetings, I would like to remind you. [[Noise and lines.]] And it is very interesting because those who, most of all, say it obscenely, bark at the National Assembly against non-existent communism, want to impose communist methods in the judiciary by imposing a clear vote completely rejecting the secret vote. Therefore, I am general against these amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, and I will repeat again what I said at the beginning: today is the day of the great hypocrisy demonstrated by the parties in the ruling quadruple coalition. They're talking about an independent justice system. Today in Brussels, their people are lobbying for the removal of the monitoring of the judiciary, and you yourself, by imposing a party-parliamentary, called the quota, in the Supreme Judicial Council, are fully partaking the judiciary in the face of the government, to say so, to the judiciary, the Supreme Judicial Council, so today you, honourable hypocrites, and ladies, of course, hypocrites, will vote on a Law against the interests of the people! [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u40	Mr. Enchev, I'm making a note. [[Loud noise.]] I'm giving you a note! [[Heckling]] Don't call from the gym! The way you're holding it, here you go. I don't see any lines. You have the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman! I ask you very much to enter into your functions because for MPs who claim to represent the people who claim to be some level of intelligence, it is not appropriate in this House to address their colleagues with..................................................................................... Perhaps if they had gotten a little acquainted with the Bill or had read a little bit more about the matter before reading the supporting points, they would have answered the question: well, the Minister of Justice in Germany, appointing the judges, is there a party influence of the respective minister, who is a political figure? And when someone talks about dependence on the judiciary, let's note that in the first or second year of the Law Faculty the theory and practice that has already developed is studied, about balance and mutual control between the authorities. He's learning about Montesquieu and all the other wise people who have developed this theory. If anyone believes that the way it was before, at the beginning, when the authorities and the judiciary split up has their own army, the king has his own army, the parliament has its own army to protect themselves, at least to quote these sources from 300 or 400 years ago, because since then things have evolved. I cannot accept anyone addressing the Members of the National Assembly with the word "sympaths" because they are simply speaking unprepared. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'm going to ask you to really interrupt these statements in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u42	I made a remark if you'd followed the movement of the dialogue. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. [[Heckling]] A statement? To speak, the People's Representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would ask you to extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u44	Could you extend the time, please?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u45	We are looking at the First Reading Draft Law amending the Law on the Judiciary, which means that we are looking at a draft regulation and at first reading the attitude should be in principle. It is for principled reasons that I will not support this bill on at least two grounds. First of all, it is for principle reasons that this bill has been tabled by the government, that is, it has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice, and I have voted against the choice of this minister. That's one. Secondly, this is a project that will practically legitimize judicial reform, because with the vote on the Constitution in December, judicial reform was practically banished. And I cannot support a bill that continues the vicious texts laid down in the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor for lines. I won't. To make a statement there is the popular representative Mikhail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! BSP left Bulgaria will vote against the submitted bill. He was late because the time limits in the Constitution, in Transitional and Final Provisions, defined another dynamics of the bill being introduced. This bill will not result in the full implementation of the amendments to the Constitution, which we were opposed to. Some of our arguments were not heard when the amendments to the Constitution were discussed. Now those who have accepted it will have too serious problems for the legislative framework and, above all, for the implementation of these amendments to the Constitution, which otherwise medialy, publicly, Pirarski in Brussels, beyond Brussels, have been reported as progress. What progress is it, ladies and gentlemen, when the General Assembly, because you want a direct selection of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, can take place on the second day under the conditions of a declining quorum? How will representatives of the magistrate communities from Sofia and the province be equal? Who will pay their missionaries and it turns out that the selection in the General Assembly can be held by 50 or 100 people as many as they are. That's what you had in mind in the Bill. The first day gathers, elects a commission, hears, and in several places in the Law you have foreseen that the very choice of members of the Supreme Judicial Council: as much as.. under the conditions of a declining quorum, that is, the Law does not guarantee representativeness and the wish for direct choice in the Law is not ensured because the direct choice means relative representativeness of the electoral college, that is to say, all judges, all prosecutors, all investigators. It turns out that from about 2,300 judges in Bulgaria, members of the Supreme Judicial Council can be elected by 30! As many as there are left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u48	Read! The law must be read!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u49	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u50	Yeah, tell Lazarov there's a rule book, and there's a line. He doesn't know yet, and it's a third term. [[Radio, laughter.]] This is in terms of what is called a direct choice. The second question that we cannot categorically accept: mixing responsibilities and mixing functions. I stated it to the Minister and when we had a meeting with representatives of our parliamentary group. What does a constitutional body appear to have, a Supreme Judicial Council? Good. You divide it into a professional sign and so on. There are some colleges. Constitutional organs. And suddenly this Law adds the Constitution, saying that the committees will function in composition, apart from members of the Supreme Judicial Council, and acting magistrates. Notice, honourable Members of the House! Acting magistrates who will test and offer for promotion or any other development personnel who may have pending cases in front of them! The Supreme Court of Cassation will discuss as a member not permanently active, will discuss the development of the magistrate of the Court of Appeal, whose case is appealed before him. This is proposed in the Law on the Judicial Government, and as I see it, you will have a majority to support it. I have strong doubts that the Supreme Judicial Council, although divided into colleges, may participate other persons, outside the members of the elected by the National Assembly and the elected by the Supreme Judicial Council of the magistrate general meetings. These are just a few, and I will not be boring, adamant evidence that you do not know where you are pushing the so-called judicial reform. There will still be a lot of problems in implementing the Law. Questions and disputes are yet to arise. The other magistrates will remain at the general meetings who are interested in forming the Supreme Judicial Council. There will be a serious problem, he is not here in the Law, and regarding the election with two thirds of the next representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council. But this is what I talked about when I was speaking on the Constitution, and I told you that then political bargaining will develop at a very high level and, of course, interest groups that are not political through political bargaining will continue to exercise influence because the minority role in the election in the National Assembly is strengthened. The third issue, which is not resolved in this Law and which is directly related to the amendments to the Constitution, the functions of the Inspectorate, which were assigned to him by the Constitution, to establish conflicts of interest and other such curious details of the biography of magistrates. They were seized by the Constitution by the specialized bodies: the Commission for the Protection of Conflict of Interests, the Commission for Withdrawal... and were granted to the Inspectorate. Yeah, well, there's nothing said about the Law amending the Law on the Judiciary about this. I understand from my colleagues that the honourable Minister has said that this work will happen further. Dear MPs mostly from the majority, I fear that with this bill you will strike another beam in an attempt to reform the judiciary. This will lead to very serious tensions, disputes and battles of the lobby. As you started this work in 2010, so obviously it will end, and in time another National Assembly, if, of course, the present does not return to a clearer concept of judicial reform, it will have to reform what you call the judicial reform. I will not go into separate details of the Law, they are the subject of the second reading, but there are absurd records inside of the type that the information that is related to... Now I'm going to read it to you, see what a miracle this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u51	Come on, Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u52	No, come on, you'll wait. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u53	There's plenty of time left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u54	There is time, of course, Mr. Chairman. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u55	Another seven minutes and thirty seconds, although it is intended for speeches in general.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u56	Well, it's about speaking, but it's also about reading. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Look on page fifteen. They haven't read it, Mr. Chairman, either.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u57	Yeah, yeah, sure. You have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u58	Most of the MPs have not read the Law. See para. 4 of the amendments to art. 30a: The data relating to the professional competence and the relevant to the successful handling of the work of a judge, prosecutor and investigator, i.e. any positive work for this person, and the individual plans are not public. I mean, the good things about people who know each other are not public, they're secret. The second more interesting, however, is that these colleagues, and this is not done by colleagues, by the officials of the Supreme Judicial Council, draw up, conduct and hold a chamber case for each judge, and there reflect data relating to professional competence and relevant to successful dealing. There is nothing written about failure to cope and it is not clear who is assessing what is successful. [[Noise and lines.]] Is an acquittal on the prosecution's indictment successful, or is it a disproportionately high penalty imposed by the court that has been successfully dealt with?! I mean, honourable Members, more things I can read you from the imported Project, but it doesn't make sense. Know what you accept, because if we do not say them from the stand, Bulgarian citizens will get the impression that you understand what you are doing. Once again I appeal to this Law not to be adopted, and we from BSP left Bulgaria will vote against. Thanks. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. For next speech there is a popular representative Danail Kirilov, but before that, honourable Members of the National Assembly, let me inform you that on the balcony our guests are students from the School of Education. Let's say hello! [[People's representatives greet guests with applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I would like to take the floor with this speech in an attempt to overcome some persistent manipulations that are being carried out with this debate. It is said that we have established the parliamentary quota Anyone who claims such a thing, either has no memories, or tries to replace people's memories, and most of all, however, tries to replace the Constitution, the Constitution, which was adopted in 1991, which establishes the imperative framework of the judiciary, of the judiciary. It further establishes the specific numbers of the so-called "professional' and the so-called "parliamentary' quota. Colleagues, this happened 25 years ago. Given that we have been clearing up the problems in the judiciary for a year and a half, claiming that we are now settling, establishing a parliamentary quota, this is ridiculous, ugly and absolutely false. Something else is being replaced, yes, we have tried and made a change in the Constitution, but as a normal National Assembly. On several occasions, we have tried to verify how intensively we can intervene on this sealed twenty-five-year framework in the Constitution. Remember how many restrictions we have been introduced and established. It was said: so far the ordinary National Assembly can act. In the name of correctness, I ask those who insinuate non-truths to comply that much of us in these debates allowed ourselves to even exceed the framework in which we were established and to say: yes, if there was an opportunity to correct the ratio, if there were not the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, which we were obliged to take into account, yes, then there was a logic to comment and correct the number of representatives of parliament in the Supreme Judicial Council. But I will also address the constructors because one of the previous speakers has mastered constructive and manipulative tactics and approaches. The designers have set this ratio. Were they perceptive enough? Alas, we still cannot overcome the trap they have left us. We can't get past this. I will also say a few words on the eternal threat to unconstitutionality of one provision or another. There is no emergency jurisdiction, there is no emergency court set up on a special occasion. Whenever we have a procedure, we must provide for an opportunity for her appeal. The Law provides for a meaningful opportunity to resolve disputes regarding the choice being made. Under no circumstances do we have any extraordinary courts. According to Bulgarian tradition on the occasion of the meetings of the floor property, the quorum, which was described just now, is called.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the occasion of the falling or falling quorum, I would say that the previous government, the previous parliament, was elected with an incomplete quorum. It wasn't selected with 121 votes. Essential personnel and programming documents in the last parliament were accepted by 67 votes. There is no way, since we have an established democratic principle and a way of voting, unless we explicitly say so, and if BSP Members have such a proposal, let them say that the General Assembly should hold the election, but with a qualified majority and not by a simple majority. It's for the simple majority. Therefore, as an analogy, I have always given Parliament. Why can Parliament adopt 61 laws? Sixty-one votes are a quarter of the total body composition. In order not to bore you, I am convinced of the quality of this Bill and will confidently support it. I participated and many colleagues participated in the work of the Judicial Reform Council. They saw how many conflicting these found a meaningful and effective solution. If there is a burden in any of the norms, purely procedurally, purely operational there is time for the regulatory construction of this regime to be eased. It is now important for the judges to know that they will directly elect their representatives to the Supreme Judicial Council. I will mention the finale of this: logical from the stands can be easily misled. The current assistant attestation committees consist only of acting magistrates. That is, what the previous speaker explained, with great power, is valid right now. Now acting magistrates as an aid authority support the attestation procedure. But from what is proposed in the new version, and it is generally true, decisions are made by the Commission of Appeals. The current judges are involved in the process. I will also repeat something from the debates of the Judicial Reform Council. We have accepted that the fundamental issues of attestation and career development are the subject of the second part. Here we must establish the transit rules. We must ensure that these four, five or six months have not yet entered into force the complete set of rules and procedures for attestations and contests. I consider this decision proposed by the Council of Ministers to be correct and justified. I invite my colleagues to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. For the first line is the word the people representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, I don't know why you should have taken this statement, but it is your right. I'll give you one line at a time and I'll pay attention to you as a colleague. I'm sure as a colleague, you'll understand in good faith what I'm saying. We changed the Constitution in December and introduced the rule that the parliamentary quota of the Supreme Judicial Council will be elected by a qualified majority of two thirds of the MPs. And here, for the magistrate's quota, we are entering a falling quorum! Do you realize what a nonsense this is?! So the people's representation here has to vote by a two-thirds majority to choose a person. This is going to be a lengthy procedure. I don't want to predict what the outcome will be, but it will not be possible to choose the full composition if there is no consensus, and on the other hand the Magistrate community can arrange things so that with a falling Where's the equality?! And then the Supreme Judicial Council has the same rights! This is a very big nonsense that needs to be considered between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Second line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Kirilov, I am very pleased that you have only confirmed what I am saying. You don't know where you're going. With the statement that we are adopting transit rules for five or six months, it makes sense or ambiguity of your legislative activity, and the function of the National Assembly is meaningless. We settle the judiciary with transit rules, honourable MPs, imagining that five or six months of action will take place in the words of the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. That's how you understand legislation. Transit them for five or six months and for public procurement and for the judiciary and everything. And rule out that the law regulates lasting public relations. Disable this understanding and change them today you will ban camping, tomorrow you will release it by calling your supreme chief.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u65	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u66	On the subject. Secondly, it is extremely inappropriate to compare a representative body, such as the National Assembly, with the College. As for arithmetic, I know you can count to 60. For the representation that should receive a general magistrate's meeting. It turns out that according to your logic and 30 people can choose the members of the College of Judges under the conditions of the falling quorum. Thirty people can! The more patient to stay, the judges and prosecutors of the province to go after long procedures and quarrels, to stay 30.40, come 50, come 60... But why lie to the magistrates that they will choose directly?! Hanging out in Sofia for two days, getting into a fight... Why? Is that the direct choice when 50 or 30 people... This text of the Law clearly shows that 30 people can choose. Less than the National Assembly with two thirds. He's right, Mr. Atanasov. This is a big gap in understanding: The National Assembly you raise, and there you give the opportunity to choose to become extremely unpresentable and try to... You're talking about magistrates. They have legal knowledge and understand that this job is a big fraud. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Minister, honourable Members, on the occasion of my colleague Atanasov's reply, I would like to recall the following. Increasing the requirement for election of the parliamentary quota was a requirement of the Venice Commission. We have decided to support this requirement. We have also decided to align the requirement for electing members of the Supreme Judicial Council with the right and the requirement for judicial inspectors, for example. With this requirement, however, Parliament, as an authority and as a body choosing a quota, is self-limiting. Is that right? That's right! We're having a hard time. Why did we bother? Why did we set the more demanding requirement? In order to make sure that there will be no political conjuncture to overcome any forms of political influence to force us from Europe to sit down and talk when we have to make a quality choice. That's why we raised the requirement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u69	Go to the other side.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u70	Let's go to the other side of the Magistrates, which is what we or Europe are all saying: This is what we need to help manage ourselves. We have to work for the judge's department. Mr. Mikov correctly noted these are our professional colleagues. In fact, they should be outbiding us in professionalism. Let them define their standard. The standard of presence and the requirement not with 30 people. Here I'm sure Mr. Mikov continues to manipulate, with a quarter of the total. If it's 2,300, it means a quarter of 2,300. Yeah, we'll get there again, like the Oresharski government was chosen. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] We'll get to that again, but where do we put the judges' self-government, where do we leave the magistrate's engagement? Yeah, if he decides to sit at home, he'll sit at home; if he wants to watch through the internet nominations and hearings, he'll watch them over the Internet; but if he wants to participate and he cares, because now it's getting more and more common that, as the judges cared this year, it's possible to start and not care. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry I ran out of time, Mr. Chairman, but I haven't been able to run out of arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u71	I understand, Mr. Kirilov, but that's the regulation. You've been eloquent enough. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mr. Simeonov. Before that, I would just like to announce that another guest of the balcony are teachers and students from the Professional High School of Economics and Management, Pazardzhik. [[Applause.]] Come in, Mr. Simeonov, after the applause, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u72	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would nevertheless like to try to land the speakers and those present in this House that we are discussing and voting on a bill at first reading. All concrete and more abstract proposals could be discussed in the Commission between first and second readings, as long as a proper wording is found, which has not been commented in the Commission at the time, I have information, especially with regard to the sharp lines from the BSP. I cannot accept the conversion of this discussion into populism. After all, it is not important what an impression we will make to our specific voters.. I am talking about every political power, it is more important for me to do something useful while we are here. We have taken the first step, we have done something very important, namely we have changed the Constitution, and it is quite normal to continue in this direction with the purely technical regulation of these changes in this Judicial Law. The bill, for us, is well done, decides the amendments to the Constitution that have been adopted. Once again, there may be relevant changes, there may be a discussion, there is a second reading, come on in then, but I am opposed to turning this discussion into a talk aimed at not very informed and understanding viewers, voters, electorate and so on, and so on and so forth. Notice what we've heard as an argumentation. I begin with the main argumentation of the opposition. By the way, their denial and reluctance to vote is normal and understandable. They didn't vote for the Constitution either. They are opposition and must appear as opposition. But, sorry, I cannot accept as the first argument that we were late with the adoption of the Law on the Judiciary and that is why they would vote against. Is that a serious argument? Can they rise, as I have already mentioned here, those who are articulated in detail, and nothing is said in the Commission about these issues? They weren't commented, there was no statement. This is clearly the conversion of the discussion of this Law into another plane in the direction of populism from the stands. They are also incorrect suggestions of illegalness, non-constitutionality and so on. Again, I kind of understand their position. However, I cannot understand the position of others who have spoken, who say: "We will not vote because we have not supported this minister. Both I and my colleagues from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria have also not supported it, but does this mean that when a well-grounded Draft for Law is proposed, we should be against it? Are we gods, Mr. Atanasov, what are we when we say something and end it? Everything has to revolve around our initial position. [[National Representative Atanas Atanasov wants the floor.]] Yes, you will have the floor. I'm deliberately mentioning your name. And don't you have the tendencies and the ability to change your position? Here I repeat: we have not voted for Mrs. Zaharieva, but the bill is good and we will support it. I also cannot accept this humiliating low level at which we have been placed, with qualifications and definitions.......... and so on........................................................................................................................................................ I propose that we focus on closing the discussion, taking over the responsibility of MPs of the Bulgarian National Assembly and not forgetting that we are currently adopting the Law on magistrates, not the Law on Highways, as they try to push us into some speeches. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only take one line at a time from Mr. Simeonov's statement. Of course, MPs must be at the height of our responsibilities when deciding on such an important issue as judicial reform. I want to remind you of something that you've either gone wrong about, or I don't know what's the reason you're saying it. You claim that BSP colleagues had not voted or voted against amendments to the Constitution. There was a text, Mr. Simeonov, on which they voted as one, and this was the broken text about the quotas between the judges and prosecutors' colleges. I want to remind you of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u75	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Do you want a hole, Mr. Simeonov? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. I give the floor to Minister Zaharieva to speak on the issues raised, and then, colleagues, we will proceed to the vote. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u76	I'll just say two sentences. I understand why the debate is quite turbulent, but I do call, as some of the MPs, to be at the height of all Bulgarian citizens and magistrates, and I will ask the Law is public, please, not to mislead and magistrates and the people who are watching us. Of course, the main goal is as wide a participation as possible in the direct election of magistrates. The falling quorum is absolutely common. Give me a law in which he is not present, but it only concerns the selection of committees, desks and hearings of candidates, for which an online opportunity is provided for a hearing by every citizen and every magistrate. With regard to selection, there is a requirement that they have voted more than half of all voting rights. Thank you, I hope, indeed, with today's vote to show the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian magistrates that the reform is on the move, that the reform, no matter how delayed and this cannot really be an argument, has been delayed so far, we already have the full political will to adopt the amendments to the Law as quickly as possible so that we meet the requirements and expectations of the Bulgarian society. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u77	And thank you, Madam Secretary. The debate is closed. Honourable Members, we are now going to vote. I'd like the Quaestors to invite the coworkers who are on the sidelines. Honourable Members, we are voting at first reading on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. Vote 138 MPs: 118 against 19, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill at first reading. [[Applause.]] Honourable Members, before moving on to the second point of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I am proposing an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the bill of the Law on the Protection of Disasters by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u79	Thank you. A counteroffer? I won't. Honourable Members, we will vote on the proposed procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals on the announced bill by seven days. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal has been accepted, with which the extension of the deadline. My fellow Members, I now declare a 30-minute recess. At 12:00, we'll continue the meeting. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u80	Honourable Members, we will proceed with the meeting. Moving on to item two on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR NORMATE DECISIONS. Importer of the first Draft Law is the Council of Ministers, as of 1 September 2015. The second bill is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, from 21 October 2015. People's representative Stefan Kenov is an importer of the third Bill, which is dated 19 February 2016. The bills are allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Education and Science. We only have two reports from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, please come in to report the two reports consistently or perhaps you can distribute your functions. One of you, the other of the Commissioner. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 502-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 September 2015. At its meeting on 16 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 502-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 September 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration, Mr. Anton Gerunov, Head of Staff, Mrs. Kalina Konstantinova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration, Mr. Iskren Ivanov, Chief Expert at the Directorate for the Administration Modernization at the Council of Ministers; Mr. Atanas Slavov, Assistant at the Office of the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Yuliana Cholpanova, State Expert at the Directorate for Legal Assistance; from the Institute for Market Economics: Mrs. Svetla Kostadinova, Executive Director; from the Center for Assessment of the Impact of Law: Mr. Toni Dimov, President; from the National Center for Study of Public Opinion: Ms. Teodora Angelova, Deputy and Mr. Antony Galabov. The bill was presented by Mr. Anton Gerunov. The draft aims at introducing the Institute for Impact Assessment in the Normal Procedure as an instrument for improving the preparation, coordination and adoption of regulations. The impact assessment is an analytical approach to explore possible economic, social, environmental and other consequences, costs, benefits and risks of different options for action to address existing problems. The draft Law introduces two types of impact assessments, which in turn are partial and complete and subsequent. The acts on which the impact assessment will be prepared shall be codes, laws and regulations of the Council of Ministers. There are also exceptions to the scope of the obligation, which include the bills amending and supplementing the Constitution, ratifying and denounce international treaties, state budget bills, the budget of state social security, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, as well as draft regulations relating to the prevention and eradication of the effects of force majeure. An exception is also the draft regulations relating to the implementation of the state budget. It is proposed that the period of public consultation should be increased to 30 days, providing for the possibility, if explicit justification, that the period should be shorter but not less than 14 days. It is also proposed to conduct public consultations on projects drawn up by the executive or by a local government body to be carried out simultaneously on the websites of the Public Consultation Portal maintained by the administration of the Council of Ministers. The bill also provides for the introduction of an obligation to carry out a preliminary review of the compliance of draft regulations with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. People's representatives Hristian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov, Yavor Notev, Emil Dimitrov, Desislava Atanasova, Petar Slavov and Danail Kirilov took part in the discussion. In response to Mr. Lazarov's question regarding the exclusion from the scope of the assessment of the impact of state budget bills, the budget for state social security, the Constitution and the regulations, Mr. Gerunov pointed out that this follows from the nature of the bills. Ms. Atanasova noted that given the repeated change of regulations, the envisaged five-year period for carrying out a subsequent impact assessment is very long. Mr. Gerunov replied that the norm explicitly refers to a shorter period of time since due to the large specificity of the different regulations it is possible for some to require a much shorter period of carrying out a subsequent impact assessment. Mr. Dimitrov raised a question about cases where a quick decision and adoption of legislation related to the solution of an urgent problem is needed. In response Mrs. Bachvarova pointed out that in § 9, point. 4 provides that the assessment obligation is not to apply in these cases to force majeure. Mr. Notev pointed out that the relations in the public sphere are complex and diverse and are not subject to regulation in the way the bill proposes. He stressed that the administration and setting of legislative frameworks would not improve its quality. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for... 1 vote against......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Alexandrova, proceed with the second report. This is an example of teamwork at the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 554-01-168, submitted by Peter Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 21 October 2015, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 654-01-17, submitted by Stefan Georgiev Kenov on 19 February 2016. At its meeting held on 1 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 21 October 2015, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 654-01-17, submitted by Stefan Georgiev Kenov on 19 February 2016. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Legislative Acts, submitted by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, provides that the full text of the amended provisions will be published in the Official Journal. The proposal is justified by importers with difficulties related to the monitoring of the content of the individual provisions during the individual periods of time given their repeated changes. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Legislative Acts submitted by the National Representative Stefan Kenov provides for a change of the provision of art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on Regulatory Acts, which requires the provisions of the regulations to be formulated in the common Bulgarian language. The provisions are proposed not to be formulated in general but in the Bulgarian language. The proposal is justified by the importer with the difference in the meaning which the words have in common use Bulgarian and Book Bulgarian. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with zero votes in favour, 5 votes in favour and 5 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to reject the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 21 October 2015; - with zero votes.......................................................................................................... to reject votes.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to motivate the bill? He has the word Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the bill that we have tabled may seem, at first glance, indeed, to introduce review, but it has a much more serious purpose. I'll try to explain it very briefly. At the moment, as we know, when amendments to existing regulations in the laws indicate the corresponding amendment and it is in practice very difficult to navigate from the promulgated text in the Official Journal. In order for you to understand me better, I will quote you a text from exactly the previous draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, where, for example, in § 4, we have recorded:. 18, para. 1, t. 2 after the words supposed position....others............................................................................................ is added.......................................................................................................................................................... This thing, when tomorrow is promulgated, a person will need, first of all, to have the old amendment of the Law, to impose these changes on it to understand what happened. Where, though, does the essential problem come from? Where a provision has been changed in this way several times, then any reflection of its amendment shall be of the particle which has amended the provision. At one point, when there are three, four or more amendments, it turns out that you have to sit down with three, four, five different pieces of the Many of you will surely say that is why there are legal information systems and a person enters one or another such legal information system and sees the text reflected. Colleagues, that's true, but they're not an international source of law. The problem comes from there that if in one legal system this legal amendment is reflected in one way and in the other it says something else, you start to wonder which is the correct text. You must have a really reliable source to refer to, imagine before a court or another state authority to say: "This is exactly the text that the legislator has adopted, and that is exactly what this legal order states. Obviously, when there are different texts in the different legal information systems, at the very least, a question arises as to who the relevant text is. To a large extent this is the point of our proposal: when the entire text is written after the proposed change has been written, § 4 of the Law on the Judiciary will not look in this incomprehensible way, as I quoted you a moment ago, but will simply write the following thing: a elected member of the SJC cannot hold a position in other state and municipal authorities. This is clear, reviewed and understandable, even if one does not have the text of the entire regulation when looking at the Official Journal. What I am talking about, in fact, has been carried out for many years by the Directorate of the Council of Ministers, which was closed maybe ten years ago. That is exactly what she was doing: she was preparing legal collections where the law in force was very accurately reflected. Most lawyers then had them and could have made a subscription, like the Official Journal, they were obtained and one had the relevant text that could be removed, shown to each government authority and that it really had binding power, that is to say there was no dispute about the content of the text itself, whether it was actually the text. You know, this is how a dispute can arise, except within the meaning of the legal norm, is this really the text that should be written in the law, or the National Assembly has adopted something else and there is a mistake in the way they have reflected it in this or that information system. What we're offering seems pretty resonant. I have heard considerations from fellow Members who rather intend to abstain from voting that it is almost this way that the Official Gazette would swell very much. I don't think that's gonna happen. First of all, you know that the new bills are promulgated with their full text. When changes are made, they are not large enough to happen something like this. When there is really talk of substantial changes to a regulation, within the meaning of the Law on Regulatory Acts it is usually abolished entirely and it is promulgated entirely. I do not believe that the Official Gazette will become double or triple, and it does not seem to me that this is a legitimate argument. Of course, if there are any other questions, the discussion will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mr. Petrov, to motivate the proposal with importers Mr. Kenov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal may also seem minor, but I think it is extremely important, especially for a country that every year on 24 May swears by science and by literature, as the creator of the brothers Cyril and Methodius of the Cyrillic, which we have given every word book to read, but see what the Law on Laws of 1973 says in art. 9, para. 1: The provisions of the regulations are formulated in the common Bulgarian language short, precise and clear. In my opinion, we propose a substantial change, I do not know the logic of not accepting this: In our motives for this change we rely as on art. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is written that the official language is Bulgarian and the following argumentation. The Bulgarian language book is a language version, unlike the admins, dialects, speak and slang, which are parts of the so-called common Bulgarian language. The Book Language is a language form which is considered to be correct and should therefore be used in all regulations. In itself, the so-called common Bulgarian language is a complex group in which are organized both the literary Bulgarian language and the slang and some dialect forms and adverbs. Last but not least, I would also note the frequent disputes in the plenary around the meaning of certain phrases of bills, namely the use of their writing in a common language. I remember we had a case here when there was a long time when we were arguing about whether the word "useful" or "useful" should be used and ultimately we had to change a whole law because one form was not established as correct. I would like to thank Mrs. Milena Damyanova, who asked the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to evaluate our proposal, and the opinion of the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is entirely in the direction of this proposal to be adopted. Here, they give that the common language means the language which is used by all those intended for use by all. The expression "general Bulgarian language" does not have a terminological meaning in the linguistic sense, does not exist in this sense. It is to be noted that it is used and subject to specialised interpretation when writing or analyzing, for example, legal acts. Thus, the recommendation in the opinion of the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is in our law to introduce something extremely normal in my opinion, which is to use the Bulgarian literary language. I hope that on the eve of May 24 we will prove ourselves as a state that has given the literature to the Slavs and accept something quite simple, useful to all: The National Assembly will give a sufficient sign of respect to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with this regulation....................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u88	And thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Now, fellow Members, I am opening the debate on three bills. First request for a speech Mrs. Milena Damyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Education and Science, which does not have a report, but you will most likely express a position from the point of view of the educational sphere. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Committee on Education and Science had provided for the examination of this Bill in its meeting next week, as Mr. Kenov, who is a Commissioner, is absent from the country this week. But I am using the case, even though we do not have a report, to introduce you to the opinion of the Institute for Bulgarian Language "Prof. Lyubomir Andreychin at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences: Dear Mrs. Damyanova, in relation to your inquiry regarding the difference in the meaning and use of the expressions. Lyubomir Andrejchin is the following. In Bulgaria, more than a century has been imposed the term "Bulgarian lyric" language, representative of the written and oral form of the Bulgarian language as official. The book language is historically created, not a dialectic language formation that reflects generally binding and codifying norms, for example, in terms of spelling, speech, vocabulary and grammar, is distinguished by the wealth and processing of its expression tools and serves to communicate in all spheres of society. The main features of the book language are mandatory in the official fields of communication, universality and polyfunctionality, that is to say, the ability to serve all spheres of society: social-political, economic, educational, scientific, cultural, cultural, production, domestic, presence of oral and written form; the competence to have a legal system, coding, specification and coordination of general mandatory norms ensuring stability in the service of state institutions, social and public spheres, education and science, media; language processing, stylish differentiation and so on. The adjective name of the adjective is used by all, intended for use by all, according to the Dictionary of the Bulgarian language, Volume 11 of 2002, page 248. The expression "general Bulgarian language" does not have a termological meaning in the linguistic sense. It is noted that it is used and subject to specialized interpretation when writing or analyzing, for example, legal acts. The legal documents distinguish between three main language layers between common Bulgarian language, special terminology borrowed from other sciences and legal terminology. The distinction between them in this case is of a meaningful point of view, in so far as the words in the common language are such as they are used and understood by all who know Bulgarian, while the special terminology borrowed from different sciences and the specialized legal terminology require for their adequate understanding and interpretation in the interpretation of the relevant legal act specialized, expert knowledge in the relevant branches of science and legal practice. In this context, it is common Bulgarian language that means expression funds from the Bulgarian language, which are used by all speakers of the language, because they are due to their knowledge of how to use them and understand them when communicating with each other. The requirement to use a common language is for the orientation to be written and spoken in an accessible and clear way. It is normal to use the expression "Bulgarian Literary Language" and it is recommended to use it in documents and in any case when it comes to the official language of the Republic of Bulgaria. The combination of Bulgarian language is not such a function, that is to say it cannot be used as synonymous with the Bulgarian language of literature, it is used much more rarely and is mostly the specialized meaning attributed to it in the case mentioned above.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u90	Thank you for your speech, Mrs. Damyanova. Would you like a line, Professor? Professor Stanilov is actually the first replica of the opinion of the Institute for Bulgarian Language at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u91	Who bears the name of an acad. Lyubomir Andrejcin is the founder of modern Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u92	That's right. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u93	Dear colleagues of GERB, if during your first term you had voted at second reading the Bulgarian Language Bill submitted by me and my colleague Ognian Stoichkov at second reading you actually turned the pancake and voted against it, you would not have such problems now, because everything was indicated and formulated............................................................. and how it is used. Language frames are very blurry and can never be put to extreme restriction. That's not the mechanic. The living word is constantly developing and it does not have the parameters for which a National Assembly pleads, an institution and so on. So the next time I introduce this same Bulgarian Language Bill, watch your vote so you don't get any such excitement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u94	Thanks for the cue. Second line? Would you like a duplicate, dear Mrs. Damyanova? ▪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Another statement? Mr. Bajraktarov, behind you your colleague raised his hand first. You couldn't see him, you had your back. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I will first take account of the draft Council of Ministers. We are generally offered a good idea to have an impact assessment of the bills when they are examined, preliminary and subsequent. That is, in advance, to have expected results from the implementation of the relevant draft regulatory act. In this case, we need to make it clear that this applies to absolutely all legislations, both bills and draft regulations adopted by municipal councils and draft regulations that are regulations and are adopted by the Council of Ministers. I'm saying, at first glance, it seems like a good idea. With regard to draft legislative acts with an importer, the Council of Ministers will actually play its part in better and quality legislation. However, I am afraid that if appropriate changes are not made between first and second readings in the current editorials of the Bill, we risk reaching conflicting interpretations when the legislative initiative comes from MPs. It is a fact that a Member of the National Assembly does not have an administrative and financial resource available to the Council of Ministers, for example, as regards the preparation of the preliminary impact assessment. Moreover, we should bear in mind that, in the current text of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the reasons which must necessarily accompany the draft regulatory act are intended for the importer to state the expected results of the application of this regulatory act, or, in other words, this is the impact assessment referred to in the Draft Law submitted by the Council of Ministers. That is to say, we still have a similar requirement, given that we are now being proposed, on the one hand, to have a regulation adopted by the National Assembly itself in relation to the impact assessments that the Members of the National Assembly will have to draw up before the bill is introduced, and, on the other hand, it is proposed that the Council of Ministers, respectively, in its draft laws, draw up such a regulation. At the end of the bill, however, in Transitional and Final Provisions, we are faced with an open door, which tells us that it can also apply to the regulations proposed by MPs, the decree to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Something that I personally don't think will contribute in any way... On the contrary, it can lead to quite different from the results described in the reasons of this Law amending and supplementing amendments to the Law on Legislative Acts. I do not think it is the purpose of this Bill, nor do I think that the importers intended deliberately to restrict the legislative initiative of the Members of the National Assembly. I believe that, between first and second readings, the provisions which specifically govern the preliminary impact assessment must be refined in view of the fact that we do not allow the violation of constitutionally recognised rights as the right to a legislative initiative of any Member of the National Assembly. The colleague Petar Slavov also offers a proper permission in his proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement. Indeed, in this way, we will make it easier not only for citizens who subsequently need to get acquainted with the legal norms that are promulgated in the Official Journal. I do not think that it will be a great difficulty to publish the full texts of the amended provisions, and not just the corresponding words or expressions that are changing. Yes, the purely paper body of the State Gazette will most likely grow, but nowadays there are enough information technologies and ways the text of the State Gazette to be received electronically. I do not believe that any irreparable or insurmountable obstacles will occur in this regard. Moreover, in the legislative process itself, it is always clearer and better when the whole text of the provision is written, at the very least, so that the MPs are informed and make their choice right. With regard to the bill submitted by Mr. Kenov, I think that this term, which is used in the Law on Laws, is correct and fully appropriate. The word is used for a reason, not for a book. We do not need to limit ourselves within the book language. You know that its rules and norms, and the acceptance of new words in the book language, follows a much, much slower move than life, than reality. We should leave that term, so that it does not turn out at some point that a word or a term will have to explain it with whole sentences in the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I will supplement what my colleague Christian Mitev did not say, especially with regard to the submitted Bill by the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, what is proposed by the Council of Ministers with the motive for improving the quality of the bills can lead to an extremely huge danger, namely a lack of legislative activity, of any Member of the National Assembly. You know that according to the Bulgarian Constitution, the right of such activity has the Council of Ministers and the MPs. As my colleague Christian Mitev has already pointed out, the MPs do not have this administrative and financial resources to carry out this assessment. But it is precisely for this reason that the Constitution provided, honourable Members, for the laws to be adopted in the first and second votes, that is, the quality of the bill to be achieved through a debate in plenary, first, on the philosophy of the draft itself and, second, text by text in committees, and then in the plenary, in order to achieve the best possible draft. Otherwise, the entire potential of the people's representation should be united. Thus proposed the bill actually makes no sense, and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly will probably have to be changed as well. Since we are looking for impact assessments for a proposed bill, then the question arises: why should a Member of the National Assembly justify its bill with motives? Then what's the point? So we're gonna have to change the rules, too. This is a dangerous trend that puts the legal activity of every MP fully dependent on the executive, something that is unacceptable! For a reason, the authorities in Bulgaria are divided into three judicial, legislative and executive bodies. There is no way for the legislative power to be put through the Law on Legislative Acts in a state of subordination and inability to fulfil its constitutional law and obligation.......................................................................................... Moreover, each MP under the Constitution represents the entire people. From this point of view, he will no longer be able to fulfil that right and obligation. Personally, I will abstain from this bill. I am convinced that it will be adopted in the first vote, but I hope between the first and second votes these texts, which, to put it mildly, are dangerous, because they are already humiliating and meaningless of the role of the National Assembly, of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. I will strongly support the bill submitted by my colleague Petar Slavov, as I will support the Bill submitted by colleagues Stefan Kenov and Rosen Petrov, because as to whether the written words of the Bulgarian language can be applied everywhere, I think that a possible problem concerning the terms of specialized laws can be overcome by common efforts. Unfortunately, there is a terminology that does not have a translation into the Bulgarian literary language. Nevertheless, I will support the bill. I appeal, above all, to my fellow lawyers, between first and second readings, to make as much effort as possible to clear the texts of the Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Would you like a line, Mr. Petrov? You have the opportunity to make a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u99	With all due respect to Mr. Bajraktarov and thanks for his support, but I would like to point out to him that the use of foreign nationals, of foreign redundancies, has been regulated in the Law on Legislative Acts in 2007 in connection with our entry into the European Union. Otherwise, colleagues, I really think: what is more normal than the book norm to lie at the heart of Bulgarian laws?! I agree with Professor. Stanilov that perhaps we finally need a working Law on Bulgarian language. I think his law is very good. He passed at first reading. I hope someday we'll live to see the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Petrov, I said that with joint efforts we can overcome these discrepancies that have led to failure to accept the bill in committees. I didn't want to be more extreme, because there are colleagues who are offended, and I had to say that someone didn't carefully read the Law on Legislative Acts, but you're just forcing me to say it. You're absolutely right! That's why I support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on Draft Law No 502-01-74, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 1 September 2015. Please vote. Abort the vote. Cancel it. There's no jurisdiction. Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here We have a quorum. We can move on. [[The list of Members of the National Assembly which entered the Chamber during the roll call check shall be annexed to the list of the President-in-Office of the sitting.]] I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 502-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 September 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill at first reading. Please vote. They voted 119 MPs: 101, against 12, abstention 6. The bill was passed at first reading. Negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In one sentence, I voted against the first-reading Bill because, in practice, with the hypotheses described in it, the legislative initiative of the entities that have such an opportunity under our Constitution is limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 554-01-168, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 21 October 2015. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to reject the bill at first vote. They voted 120 MPs: 26, against 10, abstention 84. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 654-01-17, submitted by Stefan Georgiev Kenov on 19 February 2016. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly to reject the bill at first vote. They voted 115 MPs: 47, against 4, abstention 64. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF ANNUAL WORKING PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS (2016) The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer on 10 March 2016. The Commission's report will introduce us to its President, the national representative Svetlin Tanchev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, has the honour to summarize the priorities of the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on EU Affairs for 2016, which come from the other portfolio committees to ours. At its regular meeting held on 9 March 2016, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the basis of art. 114, Chapter XI of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2016. The draft Programme is developed in accordance with the priorities of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the priorities set out in the Annual Programme for the Participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Decision-making Process of the European Union for 2016, No 602-00-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2016, the Working Programme of the European Commission for 2016 and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In its 2016 Work Programme, the European Commission proposes 23 new initiatives in line with the ten priorities set out in the Programme for Jobs, Growth, Justice and Democratic Change: 1. New incentives for jobs, growth and investment. 2. Connected digital single market. 3. A sustainable energy union with a future-oriented climate change policy. 4. A deeper and fairer internal market with an enhanced industrial base. 5. A deeper and fairer Economic and Monetary Union. 6. A sensible and balanced free trade agreement with the United States. 7. A space of justice and fundamental rights built on mutual trust. 8. Towards the creation of a new migration policy. 9. A stronger player on the world stage. 10. A union of democratic change. In addition, the European Commission proposes 27 new initiatives under the ReFIT. The main priority areas of the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union decision-making process (2016) During the meeting Ms. Denitsa Nedeva presented a state expert in the Directorate for Coordination of European Union Affairs in the administration of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Theodora Karamarinova, State Expert in the same Directorate. The annual programme shall be adopted in accordance with art. 105, para. 1 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, under which the Council of Ministers directs and implements the domestic and foreign policy of the country in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, informs the National Assembly in advance and gives an account of its actions when participating in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union. Taking into account the agenda of the European Commission and the programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, Bulgaria plans to focus its efforts on several high priority areas for the country, and these are the following: promoting economic growth and employment; migration and security; effective energy union and climate policy; single digital market; enlargement of the European Union. In the preparation of the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2016) The following considerations have also been taken into account: - Checks for compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2016 will be carried out by actively exercising the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - The adoption of the new Work Programme does not interrupt the monitoring and control process of the draft acts of the institutions of the European Union included in the previous annual work programmes of the National Assembly on European Union issues which have not been examined or finally adopted. - The Annual Work Programme shall prioritise drafts of acts of a legislative nature and enable the National Assembly to effectively monitor the government's participation in the European agenda, as well as to participate in political dialogue with the European institutions. - If necessary, the committees of the National Assembly have the opportunity to examine other documents of the European institutions - messages, reports, white and green books and others, outside the current Work Programme. After the discussion, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on the basis of art. 114, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose with 12 votes for the European Union and 1 vote abstention of the National Assembly to adopt the following decision for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2016: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 114, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2016) ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON EUROPEAN UNION'S QUESTIONS (2016) The National Assembly shall be chaired by: The strong role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union under the Treaty of Lisbon and their influence in formulating European policies; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; The importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria in achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy has decided to exercise its powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control under Chapter 11 of Art. Article 114 117 incl. by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following draft acts of the European institutions: 1. Proposal for amending a directive on the coordination of certain rules relating to copyright and related rights applicable to satellite broadcasting and cable transmission; 2. Proposal for amending the Consumer Protection Cooperation Regulation; 3. Proposal for amending the Audiovisual Media Services Directive; 4. Proposal for amending the regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in marital matters and parental liability cases; 5. Proposal on the fight against fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash payment instruments; 6. Proposal for dealing with discrimination on the basis of nationality or place of residence; 7. Proposal for amending the regulation on the coordination of social security systems; 8. Proposal for amending the Blue Card Directive 9. Proposal for amending the Directive on the structure and rates of excise duty on manufactured tobacco; 10. Proposal for amending the Regulation concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market; 11. Proposal for amending the Regulation on maximum residue levels of pesticides in or on food or feed of plant or animal origin; 12. Proposal for VAT on e-commerce; 13. Proposal for a directive on measures to reduce the tax base and the transfer of profits; 14. Proposal for amending the Posting of Workers Directive; 15. Proposal for mutual recognition of qualifications; 16. Proposal for amending the regulation on security of gas supply; 17. Proposal for a structured resettlement system for refugees; 18. Proposal for an amendment of the Dublin asylum system; 19. Proposal on the military capabilities of Member States in the field of defence; 20. A non-legal initiative on the global strategy in the field of foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2016 lacks a fundamentally important topic for the European Union and, in particular, for Bulgaria. Who is she? What is this topic, which the National Assembly is afraid of, since it has been a second year in a row, I stress this, this topic is not included, as the report on the European Union's annual work programme was absent in the last year. You're about to find out what this topic is. In his work programme, the European Commission, as Mr. Tanchev introduced us, offers 23 new initiatives in line with the ten priorities set out in the Programme for Jobs, Growth, Justice, Democracy, Changes and so on. Point 6 in these 23 new initiatives states: "A reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the United States of America. That's the big lack of this document. There's also a theme here. 5 in the Bulgarian priorities which is unnecessary and I think should not be present. This is the subject of the enlargement of the European Union. I will now argue why I am here to include the topic of the Transatlantic Partnership and why I am here to exclude the topic of enlargement of the European Union. Honourable Members, in 2015, as I said, this Parliament rejected again the topic of the Transatlantic Partnership, given that both last year and this year this topic may be a leading topic when it comes to the European Union's foreign economic relations with the United States of America. In countries like Hungary, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, but first in France, there was a real storm of discontent that these negotiations were conducted in the dark. You know how the Bulgarian MEPs can ask them when the day after tomorrow they come here, they get access to the documents from the negotiations between the European Commission and the United States of America on the Transatlantic Partnership. The negotiations are conducted completely in the dark. For this reason, the countries I have listed, but first of all Hungary, strongly oppose this way of negotiating with the United States of America. I'll ask the second question. For what reason is the enlargement of the European Union important for Bulgaria in 2016? This point needs to be dropped, and I'll tell you why. This topic is officially and informally frozen within the European Commission. After Croatia's entry into the European Union, what is happening with the migrant wave or, more precisely, the great migration of the peoples, the issue of enlargement of the European Union is at a dead end. But someone's decided to bring it up. In essence, it serves the Republic of Turkey, which exerts very serious efforts in this area. It serves the Republic of Serbia, with which we have very serious problems about the situation of the Bulgarian minority in the Western suburbs. I would like to hear the arguments of the importers of this point "Why is it present, given that it is hardly present in European Union documents, of the European Commission for 2016?" Therefore, I propose that it be included as a sixth point in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues, because I believe that if this topic is not included, we open the doors wide, as has been said last year by this tribune, for genetically modified foods, for the extraction of shale gas, for the union rights that will be seriously violated within the European Union, as we will copy, and this is no secret, the standards of trade rights in the United States of America. These standards have nothing to do with European standards. There are virtually no trade unions in the United States of America for a reason. And the scariest, supranational courts that are present in the current version of the working version of an agreement, where private companies will be able to sue countries for their failed contracts when protecting national interests. Such processes have already been won by transnational private companies against the South African Republic, Brazil, even Germany. Therefore, once again, I propose that it be included as point 6 in the Annual Work Programme the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment, which will unfortunately be extremely important for the European Union and our country. Unfortunately, so far, negotiations have been held in Brussels in the dark. The results and information we are getting says that the European Commission is ready to make serious concessions to the transnational companies of the United States essentially. If we are Europeans, we will put this point. There's nothing to discuss! And on the issue of including the point of enlargement of the European Union, I am ready to adopt a compromise solution, but let me hear the arguments of the importers why exactly the point of enlargement of the European Union you decided to bring it in this year, as it clearly serves only two countries on the peninsula and in Europe at all the time the Republic of Turkey, which has no right to speak on this issue after blackmailing and racketeering the European Union, and the Republic of Serbia, which has serious problems in the pre-accession process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u108	What about the dots from the sixth to the sixth to be renumbered? Is that what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u109	Yeah, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u110	- What's the line? I won't. The people's representative, Christian Vigenin, has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, firstly, I expected the importers of the Bill to explain to Mr. Velizar Enchev and to answer the questions he asked. One of the reasons why there is some misunderstanding of what we are actually doing today is contained in what I briefly explained at the beginning of today's sitting. One is the National Assembly Work Programme, which is drawn up on the basis of several documents that are described here. The other, of course, is the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union, a document of the government, which should be presented by the Prime Minister in the National Assembly. Just to make it clear that, after all, Art. 124 of the National Assembly's Rules on this topic is not desirable, but imperative and says that the National Assembly is listening to the Prime Minister's report, rather than to hear the Prime Minister's report. In other words, in the context of this speech, I would like to make again the proposal of the National Assembly to invite the Prime Minister as soon as possible to present the annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union and there to put some of the issues which Mr. Enchev and Mr. Enchev, as with regard to enlargement, have other countries, by the way, which I think this topic has been put by accident from Bulgaria, but this is not part of our debate here today, but of a debate which we will be having with the Prime Minister and the issue of the Transatlantic Agreement respectively. In fact, this programme, which has now been presented to us, is a list of specific legislative initiatives. To what extent the negotiations on this agreement are still ongoing and, as far as I have received an explanation, this topic is included in this list of legislative initiatives, which does not mean that we, here in the National Assembly, should not discuss these topics. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that, in practice, European themes are literally lacking in the activities of the National Assembly and in the activities of almost all committees; that there is no adequate interaction between the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries on European topics; that the Annual Work Programme, which I mentioned earlier, has not been discussed since the beginning of the term of office of this National Assembly in practice in fact a second time in the National Assembly; that Bulgaria's positions in the various Council formats, including in the European Council, have not been discussed in advance in committees and in the National Assembly. Here again I would like to express dissatisfaction with the fact that tomorrow and the next day is coming, as I said in the morning, perhaps one of the most important European Councils to be held this year and we are learning about Bulgaria's positions on the Prime Minister's statements to the media here and there, from his letters to Donald Tusk for example, but he never wanted to come here and take the sanction of the National Assembly on the topics he will defend at the European Council, and they are key to Bulgaria. The first is related to the migration of the European Union's new policy and the agreement with the Republic of Turkey, which was agreed but should be approved. The second element, the report on macroeconomic imbalances, the so-called "European semester', which was published a few days ago. He, I stress, is still a killer for Bulgaria. In addition to making serious findings about the state of the Bulgarian economy, in its last part contains a table of elements that are recommended, but are not implemented by the previous report, which came out in 2015. If you see the table, it appears that almost nothing is fulfilled in its entirety, as recommended, and this, for me, is also one of the problems on which the Prime Minister owes an explanation to the Bulgarian Parliament. With regard to the specific programme, I would like to say that for us the adoption and work on these annual programmes is a complete formalism, so our group will refrain from voting on it, not because we do not believe that these legislative and non-legal acts that are included in this programme are not important, not that Parliament should not work on them, much less we are against the National Assembly being involved with them, but there is no element of accountability. Last year, after a few debates, we adopted a program that, if we open now and read what we put into it, we will see that maybe only 2-3 of the things that are at stake are actually implemented and there was a real debate on them. I believe that formalism must be put to an end. If it is necessary to propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure requiring, in addition to adopting the Annual Programme, that we also request a report on what has been done on it, because everything else, in my opinion, is pointless. In addition to having no accountability, no one has understood what we have actually discussed on this Programme, what has been accepted, what we have achieved in this time, what positions we have taken in committees or in the National Assembly on these topics. Here I would say: apart from the fact that Parliament was passive, on the part of the Council of Ministers and especially the minister ministers, Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva, we did not see a particular commitment to a higher degree of coordination, of seeking assistance from us, which I think is important when defending important positions for Bulgaria. In addition, I believe that coordination with the Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament was not at the necessary level during the past year, which, by the way, gives us a good example today with the discussion that they are organizing under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism in Brussels, where representatives of the Bulgarian institutions and one representative from each parliamentary group were invited to be seen there in the European Parliament. I think that when we talk about European issues, about European policies, we should try to engage our representatives in the European Parliament more effectively and actively on these topics. I conclude by saying that because I mentioned the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and by talking about the major European topics, we literally understood a day or two ago that this mechanism remains that Romania is gradually moving towards exiting it and Bulgaria is sinking even deeper into this Mechanism. The government has already stopped working for Schengen, especially Mrs Kuneva, who had set herself as some goal of the ministries or the deputy prime ministering, let us say Bulgaria's membership in Schengen. This thesis is hanging too! Instead of putting it sharp enough tomorrow and the day after, we've already stopped talking about it. Speaking of macroeconomic imbalances, a few days after the report, which found that Bulgaria's external debt was growing alarmingly, only a few days after that we took another 2 billion. Euro external debt. In general, some questions that seem to me that far from putting Bulgaria in a favourable European light, seen from the outside, and, from the inside, are taking us away from the real European debate, something that we cannot accept. That is why I say again: the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria will refrain from this vote and expect from the government and from the Prime Minister a stronger commitment to the National Assembly on European issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tanchev. Please, if there are other speeches, let us concentrate on the topic, which is the annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues. I leave the debate looser and we include the 122-124 member of the Committee for Verification Cooperation, but let us still focus on the draft decision proposed to your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to take an attitude and try to return the subject to what we are discussing. There may be something to be desired in communication and accountability, but this is another topic of another debate and I do not want to get into this matter. I would like to return the debate on the report that I have read and I will read you some of the rules that we are working on to guide other colleagues if they have any requests for speeches. The annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues should contain draft acts of the European institutions..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These draft acts are examined by the National Assembly in terms of respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The subsidiarity period shall be eight weeks from the publication of the draft by the European Commission. The Parliaments of the Member States may participate effectively in the legislative process of the European Union within that period. That is why in the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme we have included these draft acts on which we actually have the opportunity to rule. The general these and issues of the European Union do not make sense to include, as well as old proposals, those that have expired. The Transatlantic Agreement does not fall within the Programme for this reason either. Doesn't fall into the procedure above at all. If and when it comes to its signature by the European Union, then this treaty will be subject to ratification by all parliaments. Moreover, the annual work programme does not happen in plenary, but in sectoral committees, in the Committee on European Affairs. The hearings of the Executive on current matters of the European Union by the plenary have nothing to do with this Annual Report. Colleagues, indeed, the topics are up to date, but let us follow the rules, which is why they have been created in order for an effective process to go forward and that we can really defend our positions in the European Union the most adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. The draft decision presented to you is missing the name of the Decision to be adopted by the National Assembly's annual work programme on European Union issues 2016. First, I vote on the name of the Decision. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 68, none, abstention 12. The name of the Decision has been adopted. We understand that the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Velizar Enchev is incompatible with the rules under which such a programme is drawn up, from what the President of the Commission explained, the People's Representative Svetlin Tanchev, so I will not put it to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision which was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Svetlin Tanchev, together with his name, which we just adopted. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 69, against 1, abstention 13. The annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues for 2016 has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT DISCRIMINATION FOR 2014 Imported by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 31 March 2015. With the Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Evgenia Alexieeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before I present to you the report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, I request a procedure for admission in the Chamber of Assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, and Mr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u116	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Evgenia Alexieva. Vote 79 MPs: for 73, against 3, refrain by 3. Please invite Mrs. Jumalieva and Mr. Husseinov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u117	♪ I can't believe As regards the Report of the Commission's Action on Protection against Discrimination for 2014, No 520-00-19 submitted by the Commission on 31 March 2015. At a regular meeting held on 21 May 2015, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed a Report on the Commission's activities against discrimination for 2014, No 520-00-19, submitted by the Commission on 31 March 2015. The meeting was attended by Assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission and Mrs. Zlatina Dukova, Commissioner. The report was presented by the President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination "Assoc. Dr. Anna Dzhumalieva. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination is an active state body for prevention, control and protection against discrimination. In the past year on complaints and signals of natural and legal persons are formed 452 cases, according to the order of art. 50 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. The prevailing complaints and alerts during the reporting period are linked to discrimination on different signs in the field of employment. In the report of the Commission, according to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination, information on the activities of each of its permanent specialized groups is included. One of the Commission's most important functions is the possibility of self-selling and its preventive function. At the beginning of its activity in 2006, the number of complaints received in the committee was 289 and in 2014 their number was 890. The files formed at the beginning of the Commission's establishment were 183 and in 2014. "452." The number of decisions given for 2006 is 74 and for 2014. .. 478. Ms. Dzhumalieva said that one of the things they have failed to achieve due to lack of sufficient financial opportunities is to implement one of the recommendations addressed to the institution by the European Commission against racism and intolerance. It is recommended that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination be provided with sufficient financial resources to reveal 26 regional representations. At present, the Commission has 18 regional representations. In the revealed regional representations in the town of Veliko Tarnovo Targovishte and gr. Smolyan has no appointed regional representatives and the offices are not equipped with the necessary equipment due to lack of financial opportunity. The existence of regional offices is extremely important, both for the institution and for all citizens who are located in more remote towns, because not everyone has the opportunity to travel or use communications, to connect and visit the Commission's headquarters. The lack of funds makes it difficult for the Commission to carry out its full work. The budget of its establishment amounted to 3.5 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. During the discussion, MPs expressed their views in support of the Commission's 2014 activity report, expressing their agreement with the problems posed by the President in relation to the Commission's activities. Questions were asked to the President of the Commission, which was answered in detail and argued. Mr. Krasimir Velchev, Chairman of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, read a letter from the National Council of Religious Communities in Bulgaria expressing his support to the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, as a body for protection of citizens' rights, and stressing that the quality of the huge amount of work done in 2014 is an indication of the role of this committee as a major national body on equality, intercultural interaction and humanism. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, No 520-00-19, submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 31 March 2015. The Commission also proposes a draft decision to be debated and adopted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u118	Introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u119	Project! DECISION: on the 2014 Anti-Discrimination Commission Activity Survey The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's Action on Protection against Discrimination for 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u121	Mr. President, I would like to make an editorial proposal: on the basis of the reason to add a letter. 84, p. 17.................................................................................................. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-16.u122	Okay. Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. First, I put to the vote the proposal for editorial change, i.e. an addition to the grounds for the decision: the National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. The text goes on with the text. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the MP Evgenia Alexieva. We vote. Vote 70 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal for an editorial amendment has been accepted. I am now voting on the entire draft decision together with the newly adopted editorial amendment. Please vote. Vote 72 MPs: 69 against 1, abstention 2. The Commission's report on protection against discrimination for 2014 has been adopted. We are done with this item on the agenda. It's 1:55 a.m. tomorrow we'll continue with the "T." 5 on the agenda: the first vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Administration. The representatives are Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs on 16 January 2015. On 21 January 2016, Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs took part in the draft Law; of the second importers were Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
