ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, as according to our weekly Programme and what was done on yesterday's plenary day, the probability that today we will not be able to seal the time is great.. I offer to your attention on the grounds of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly of 23 June 2016, the following additional points: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of the Wildlife "General project prepared by the Commission on Agriculture and Food, based on the laws adopted at the first vote with importers Petar Petrov and a group of MPs, Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs, and the Council of Ministers on the third draft law. 2. First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Landing Act. Importers: Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. 3. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. " 20 December 2015 Importer: The Commission for Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. I draw attention to the leaders of the parliamentary groups, not to the Standing Committees, that for a second vote in the Standing Committees, there are more than 20 bills that are not seen, which is why we are creating difficulties in drawing up and adopting our respective weekly programmes for plenary sessions. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] Then you'll have a chance. In this procedure under art. 50, para. There is no possibility for a reverse opinion. I put to the vote my proposal for additional points in our weekly Programme. Vote 134 MPs: 101, against 17, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u2	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, it is my procedure to make the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act fall off the agenda as it has not been 24 hours since the Commission was examined. The report was uploaded perhaps late last night or this morning, no one is ready to debate this issue right now. Thank you. [[Replys from DPS: No report, not uploaded.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u3	Dear Mrs. Ahmedova, the report has been submitted to the National Assembly. This condition also applies imperatively with regard to the first vote on the bills. With regard to the second vote, the provision of our Rules of Procedure says:......... if the Assembly does not decide otherwise........................................................................................ The meeting just decided otherwise. [[(Radio.) Noise from GERB.)]] On behalf of the parliamentary group Mr. Iankov. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, since there is no reference to the numbering of the points, they are arranged after the other points that have been voted in our weekly Programme. We're listening, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u4	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! A few days ago, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova made a fundamental finding that "bit crime reflects all economic and social problems in society." That's what she said at a work meeting in Kyustendil. Assuming that this is the first understanding of GERB of the true function of the Ministry of Interior as a system for ensuring national security and internal order, the actions and the inactions of which processes arise in all spheres in our country, the question arises immediately: for six years of management, what are the real scale of the damage from the poor management of the Ministry of Interior? Yes, domestic crime today is on such a scale because of the social poverty of a large part of the population, with its size reaching out of control precisely in small settlements where unemployment is almost 100%. That is why the contribution is of the anti-social governance of GERB as a whole. The Ministry of Interior leadership has abdicated from countering this crime with the declaration that it is unable to secure the presence of a police officer in all settlements. The first act of the office in the mandate of the cabinet Borisov 2 was the cancellation of the measures of the Oresharski cabinet for the participation of the gendarmerie with preventative permanent presence in settlements with high levels of domestic crime, as well as the inclusion of paid employees in the unemployment program. Two years later the Deputy Prime Minister discovered that an organisation was needed to ensure maximum use of the impact opportunities including all available resources and funds of the Ministry of Interior. He asked to act as a social and political system for local public order and security committees. The latter is an attempt to transfer the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior to the municipalities, which can guarantee the lives of the citizens and the security of their property only as a paid service. This is also the innovative concept of the minister, laid down in the new Ministry of Interior Act, transforming more and more activities, including the security, as paid by citizens service, according to the model imposed in healthcare. In addition to domestic crime in recent weeks, the Ministry of Interior has also inked another failure in the fight against organised crime. The incident in Sunny Beach bears all the signs of an action of a functioning organized criminal group, whatever the formal occasion for what happened. In the rain of bullets, metaphorically, the tourist season was subjected, and the direct result was one killed and two injured in a clash between two groups with dozens of participants. Among them are the sign persons with which criminal statistics have been formed for a decade in the region and the country. The lack of inside information coming from secured sources of the Ministry of Interior for intentions and actions planned by the criminal contingent is obvious. The Ministry of Interior's inability to respond quickly to the neutralization of such incidents is also obvious as they occur. What are the subsequent actions of the responsible ministry? Minister Bachvarova found that the key participant is an honest businessman characteristic, which gives him two years after serving a sentence as head of an organized criminal group. An action was taken to establish the identity of the persons wishing to rest on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, as well as the basis for their use of modern motor vehicles through building events at the entrances of Black Sea tourist complexes and online media coverage. This non-traditional form will probably be reported as a financial result at the end of the summer season if it is not replaced by a more meaningful and professional procedure for guaranteeing the security of the holidaying Bulgarians and foreign citizens. All of this is happening in conditions of increased terrorist threat all over the world. In no way is the adequacy of the Ministry of Interior visible to prevent a possible well-organised attack if the victims' incidents have such a sad end. The newly established single centre for the southern Black Sea coast is a late measure. Given everything that has been undertaken so far, I think that its functionality is doomed because of the management weakness of the senior management of the Ministry of Interior and is rather incompatible as a mechanism for implementing tourist areas. It is some strange symbiosis, legendary as security guards, while total police control over the rest and business in the complex. Another failure in the activities of the Ministry of Interior to ensure national security is the protection of the state border against invading refugees in our territory: - the delays and the continuous and unjustified increase in the construction of the fence at our border with Turkey demonstrate irresponsibility and lack of adequate assessment of the importance of this protective device; - captured intruders inside the country prove the existence of passage channels; - as a new corridor emerges the Bulgarian-Greek border. GERB's concept of system management, the structuring of directions, the policy towards the development of staff and their social rights has been reflected in the new draft law for the Ministry of Interior. They face categorically non-acceptance from both trade unions and all sectors of the ministry. Over the past year, discontent with the minister's reforms has shown an expression in large-scale protest actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u5	Dear colleagues, please, no movement and silence in this Chamber! Let's listen to our colleague!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u6	The promised correction and preservation of social benefits never took place and the Law is in its original form. It is unlikely that this will be taken with care, and if this leads to another leaving of employees, the Ministry of Interior will be unable to function because of a failure. Finally, let's remember the beginning of the Cabinet, which started with three custom killings. Then Prime Minister Borisov stated that thanks to the quick and competent actions taken under his personal leadership, the perpetrators would be captured within a week. You didn't say what week... The only positive step to be taken to stop and change the crisis, the critical state of the Ministry of Interior is the resignation within a week of the current leadership headed by Bachvarova. BSP left Bulgaria insists this step to be taken! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u7	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. Importers are Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015, adopted at the first vote on 4 February 2016. The President of the Commission Mr. Slavcho Atanasov has the floor to present the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mrs. Bonnie Petrunova be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u9	Honourable Members, we are voting for admission in this House. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u10	In addition to the amendments to the Law on Cultural Heritage, No 554-01-128, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015 and adopted in the first vote on 4 February 2016, the Council adopted the Law on Cultural Heritage. The Law on Cultural Heritage is amended and supplemented by the Law on Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of the Law. 100 MPs voted: 99, against, no, abstention 1. The proposal for the name of the Law has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u12	Under § 1 there is a proposal from the MP Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs In § 1, the text so far becomes t. 1 and create a new t. 2 which amends para. 2 of art. 14, as follows: The projects and initiatives under para. 1, t. 13 (a) shall be agreed after a decision of the Specialized Council under art. 64, para. 2, the ones under para. 1, t. 13 point (b) shall be agreed after a decision of the Specialized Council under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2, and the ones under para. 1, t. 13 letter "in" after a decision of the Specialized Expert Council on Fine Arts set up by the Minister of Culture. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Valentin Pavlov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u13	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 99 MPs: 15 against 43, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 1 to be rejected. Vote 89 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u14	Paragraph 2. Proposal by the National Representative Mr. Willi Lilkov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Valentin Pavlov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 1 is finally added as well as carrying out other activities defined in this law. 2. They're creating an al. 3, 4, 5 and 6: For the implementation of the activities under para. 1, t. 1, within the established number of municipal administration units are established in the planned economic areas defined in the Law on Regional Development: 1. for the South-West region of Sofia Municipality; 2. for the South Central Region of Plovdiv Municipality; 3. for the South-Eastern region of Burgas; 4. for the North-Eastern region of Varna; 5. for the North Central Region sc the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo, 6. for the North-Western region of Pleven municipality. (4) The Area under para. 3 consist of at least three persons who meet the requirements of art. 164, para. 1 and 2. (5) The Area under para. 3 may issue written observations under art. 84, para. 2, p. 2 for real cultural values, which are not categories of the world and are of importance in the municipalities of the relevant planing economic area. (6) The Area under para. 3 work under the methodical leadership of NIKN, whose representative participates in the selection of specialists in the protection of real cultural values that work in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u15	Dear colleagues, speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making an editorial proposal in § 1, art. 17, para. 3, p. 5, where it is recorded for the North Central Region of Veliko Tarnovo, the municipality of Ruse should be added as, first of all, Ruse is the administrative center of the North Central Region and is an important cultural and historical center with over 300 monuments, so it is appropriate for the North Central Region to be included as the center and the municipality of Ruse.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. A line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u18	Just a few words. At that time, when NIKN, so-called NIKK, was at the top of its development, there was such a branch in every district city that worked under its direct leadership. The largest subsidiary was in Veliko Tarnovo, although it had affiliates in Ruse and in Gabrovo, there in the whole area. That's why we put Veliko Tarnovo in. I have nothing against Ruse. Ruse is a beautiful city with a very high culture, there is a place in this work, but we will have to increase by one number. By increasing by one number from the north, we must also increase from the south, because southern cities will also begin to protest. So I don't see that logic. [[GERB's line.]] I don't see that logic, really! It's okay, but otherwise we have to do in every district city, which is very nice "financial resources" and so on. And this, and as importers we have stated it in the motivation, is a kind of experiment -- one or two years will work to see how it works. Because it's a very complex matter. It's very complicated the whole movement, the whole structure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u19	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, your proposal will violate the principle that has been adopted after long discussions in the Commission to have one place to be the centre of the respective planning area. If there are two municipalities that are for the North Central Region, I think this will lead to an imbalance and will actually create, after so much work done in the Commission, a problem in making the decision by the National Assembly. I support what you said, Professor. Stanilov. Let's still look at the history behind us and the work of the National Institute for Cultural Monuments back then in those years. Without opposing Ruse and Veliko Tarnovo, Veliko Tarnovo was indeed a center, including for a much wider region outside the municipality and the area in terms of the preservation of real cultural heritage monuments. I think what we are trying to do now is to help administratively and to decentralise the work of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and the centre where it should be should not, in my opinion, be a stumbling block in the decision of the National Assembly. So I support the proposal made by the Commission, which is also a proposal of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria for the North Central Region of Veliko Tarnovo to be the centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u21	This is the city.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u22	Yeah, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It will not create any imbalance this proposal of mine. My motives are as follows. First of all, for all those units to be established, the relevant district town for the area concerned is the centre. For the North Central region the center is not in Veliko Tarnovo, but in Ruse. Since there are also many cultural monuments of historical importance in Veliko Tarnovo, as well as in Ruse, I mentioned that they are over 300, so I suggest that there be no imbalance, namely, because there will be a lot of work and clustering in this unit that will function in Veliko Tarnovo, it will be loaded not only with the many monuments that are in Veliko Tarnovo, but also with those that are in Ruse over 300, in Targovishte, in Gabrovo and in order to be able to work more functional, I think it is appropriate to accept my proposal for the North Central Region units to be located in the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo and in the municipality of Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. The people's representative Iskren Veselinov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to express my full support for Mrs. Angelova's proposal, it is absurd that Ruse should not be a center for preservation of the monuments of culture. There is no logic at all that there are six planned areas and the only center of a plan area that is not the center of such activity is not Ruse, provided that Ruse has more than 270 cultural monuments, mostly of local importance, with all due respect to Veliko Tarnovo, where they are mainly of national importance. Moreover, historically, the centre of such activity was the municipality of Ruse, and for a rather large region. It is about the districts of Ruse, Silistra, Razgrad and Targovishte. This thing has lasted more than 15 years as a practice and only in recent years has the activity really been downloaded mainly to Veliko Tarnovo. It is natural that the proposal of the Association of Municipalities will be for Veliko Tarnovo, as the Chairman of the Association is the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo. However, I believe that we cannot promote such regionalism in the harmful aspect of regionalism, as we as legislators still have to apply some principles. The simplest thing we should probably propose is to replace Veliko Tarnovo Municipality with Ruse in order to implement the principle that the centre of the planned area will also be the center of such administration. However, we offer something else. We suggest that both municipalities should be able to carry out similar procedures. Moreover, let me point out that Ruse Municipality is a larger municipality. It has a larger administration, respectively greater administrative capacity. In that spirit, I think there will be no imbalance. On the contrary, the residents of the North Central region will be quite relieved, as the natural center of the districts of Ruse, Razgrad and Silistra is Ruse district and the city of Ruse, and they will be able to perform their coordination procedures quite comfortably there, while the districts of Veliko Tarnovo and Gabrovo will carry out their procedures in Veliko Tarnovo. I fully support the proposal of colleague Angelova and I insist that it be really supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. A line of the speech of the MP Iskren Veselinov? I can't see. Anybody else want to make a statement? Mr. Willy Lilkov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I take the floor because, in essence, this article that we are discussing is the heart of the proposed bill, and here we should say all the things that we have as arguments for........................................................................... I'll read just a few lines, then I'll make a statement on the substance. I want all MPs to know that Bulgaria in 1991 signed the Convention for the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe, ratified by the Decision of the Grand National Assembly of 25 January 1991 and it has been in force since May 1991. 4, Bulgaria is obliged to submit to the competent authority projects for the destruction or modification of monuments already under protection or subject to a conservation procedure, as well as any project affecting their environment. That is, Bulgaria has already signed this Convention and in this sense it has established the competent institution. This is the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. This practice has been imposed in almost all European countries. One competent authority manages the entire real cultural heritage. In fact, what is offered with the Bill? It is proposed that the degradation of NIKN and the dispatch of some of those competences which should, under the Convention, be at one office, in several regions. In fact, the first statements show where the entire debate will go from here. Lobbying between the MPs is starting to pull the units into their areas and I am sure that the case of Ruse and the opposition of Veliko Tarnovo will not be the first. But that's not the point. I'll say this first. I share absolutely the findings that the importers of the Bill have made with regard to the non-functioning system for the preservation of real cultural heritage and I will recall what the facts are. Before 1990 in Bulgaria there was a single centralized system for the preservation of real cultural heritage, the so-called WPKI, with regional offices. They had experts who were working at NIKN and their number was 2000. I repeat, colleagues, 2,000 people in Bulgaria at central, regional and local level in municipalities were working on the preservation of real cultural heritage. Do you know how many these people are right now? Forty. Fifty times has reduced this potential and it is natural that the system does not work. It is natural for cultural heritage to be put at risk. Here the question is: what will we do in this situation, what political decision will we take? Whether we go along with the degradation system, which is very risky, and I will say why, by breaking the Convention that we have signed, or going back into a system that should resemble the one that was created in the protection of real cultural heritage by strengthening the expertise, increasing the number of people who work. And I repeat, I insist that there be such regional offices, but of NIKN's methodical and relevant expert leadership. What's the status right now? Why are the files moving very slowly? Colleagues, 17 steps must take one file from the time of submission to NINCN until the person who has submitted it receives it back with the relevant competent opinion. Whatever you do, if the system stays the same as the number of procedures and steps, nothing will change. On the contrary, things will be complicated because at the moment when a problem of Targovishte's cultural heritage needs to be solved, a file will begin further between Targovishte and Ruse or Targovishte and Tarnovo, after which, see what happens? This expert the mayor has set up, or this threesome, five, a week of specialists. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , need to broadcast a person to go to NINCN and start dealing with the survey of the register, work on the spot and then the procedure rotates again. We're not gonna buy any time. In that sense, colleagues, I suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u29	The weather, Mr. Lilkov, 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u30	... to remove this article and to work on increasing the expert potential of NIKN, and to review the register of real cultural heritage before that, make publicly available the national documentary archive, respectively, should be examined whether most of the monuments currently in the register are up-to-date, and a number of other things before we start breaking down the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u31	Time! It's been over a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u32	Last sentence. I am convinced of the kindness of fellow Members who are making the proposal, but I say that this is a political step in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u33	First line? I can't see. There is a speech for the people representative Evgeni Stoev, after him Ivan Slavov, after him I see Julian Angelov, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The debate on where there is and where there is no need to mention certain things, especially in relation to cultural and historical heritage. It is not a question of opposing cities, it is not a question of measuring which city has more monuments than cultural and historical heritage. Tarnovo is an old capital of Bulgaria. Tarnovo has 1580 monuments of culture and this is the most on the entire Balkan Peninsula! I do not want to oppose Tarnovo to Ruse because Ruse has 270 or 300 cultural monuments, but it should not be mixed plan-economic area and town with cultural and historical heritage, former capital and city with traditions, which in the past and now defines the culture and development of Bulgaria precisely in tourism and in the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. We've talked a lot about NIKN. This is one of the Commission's principled positions that, in order to reduce corruption, to bring down the deadlines, regional environments must be made, but in their dislocation, determination should be seen where cultural monuments are concentrated. I appeal from this tribune of Tarnovo to be for the North Central Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Any lines to the statement? Mrs. Ferihan Ahmedova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague, as far as I could hear, the proposal is not to move the center from Tarnovo to Ruse, but to have two centers, which makes a very big sense. We are all aware that Veliko Tarnovo is a center with an extremely large cultural heritage at national level, but Ruse is an extremely large centre of cultural heritage at regional level. All tourists from Romania pass through the Danube Bridge and their first destination is Ruse, and if they need to see the best from Bulgaria, they start from Ruse and continue to Tarnovo. That's why I don't see a colosis in having two centers. I ask you to support the proposal of colleague Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line.....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, see where a serious debate is going, which has serious political dimensions, whether to be in Ruse or in Tarnovo. What would tourists see when they came down from the Danube Bridge?! Well, as they get off Danube Bridge 2 in Vidin, they will see Vidin's cultural and historical heritage. Let's make a regional office there too! Colleagues, please focus on the serious conversation, and he is what we do with the whole system. I say that very few people who have spoken and made proposals know the system. I took a line, however, because of the colleague's statement just now. He said that to reduce corruption, we would build NINK and send things to the mayors. Colleagues, those who know the mayors and municipal councils, as well as the work of the local government, cannot claim that there is less corruption there! Understand, we will mix control functions under the Cultural Heritage Act, which the mayors have for the preservation of cultural heritage, with the permits functions. We'll give in the same hand and the right to control and the right to allow. You know what's gonna happen?! Since I have a little more time left, I'll tell you this. Municipalities have not done much of their work on the so-called real estate management plans. Each ensemble, each cultural monument has a regime of management and conservation regime. The mass of monuments in Bulgaria do not have such regimes. From what point of view will a mayor or his experts decide whether a regime is applicable when there are no protection regimes and governance regimes?! Tell me, where will their coordinate system be, in which they will move, making an assessment of one project or another? Colleagues, I warn you that in just a few years' time with these arguments, which I am currently presenting before you, there will be a bill of amendment and supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act, with which this proposal, which is deeply wrong, will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u39	Third line.. People's representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u40	Maybe what we should start with is that I don't think anyone likes the system the way it is right now. With her for the most simple reconstruction you have to wait three years for a clerk somewhere to please to address your needs. And what to talk about when there are investment projects, when a certain entrepreneur closes money behind the idea of returning it and for years walks from instance to instance and experiences the agony of communicating with the central administration that protects cultural monuments. There's hardly anyone in this room, maybe with one or two exceptions, who doesn't think the system needs to change. My remark regarding Mr. Stoev's statement is that there is really no opposition. Moreover, we must bear in mind that municipalities, at their own expense and with their personnel resources, will carry out the coordination procedures and exercise the authorisation regime. In this spirit the positioning of another municipality, as the municipality of Ruse, which has a much more serious administrative capacity than the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo, will actually ease the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo and will make the activity itself faster and more effective. In this spirit, there is no need to oppose one city to the other and one municipality to the other. The opportunity for both municipalities to create such units will only benefit the citizens of the entire region.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. People's representative Evgeni Stoev, right to the doppelganger? You're giving up. For speech there is the word of the people representative Ivan Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to express my and our group's opinion that the dispute or discussion that has been opened is logical because the texts of this Draft Law at second reading suggest this logical discussion, as is likely to follow, for the simple reason that we are discussing, discussing and voting texts that we have not yet adopted, we do not know, for the simple reason that they are not contained in the Law at first reading. They completely replaced the initial text and this was also a logical perspective, because the texts already adopted do not solve problems, but create problems.. something we said five months ago and today we repeat without the reasons to cause disputes, dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction. We believe that serious cultural heritage policy requires a serious approach. Today's approach is unsympathetic, ladies and gentlemen. I do not think that it is logical and responsible for each of us to continue discussing problems and texts that we have not solved at first reading because it has not taken place. I do not understand a discussion where Ruse's interests oppose the interests of Tarnovo! I would like to say that in Eastern Bulgaria or in the Southeastern region there is one city that leads to the others, and we would claim that for the structure that we comment on and present as a necessary condition to control cultural heritage policy, with the most claims we are in our region. However, respecting the right of the big ones in the region, it is logical for them to bear these responsibilities. However, it is paradoxical that the responsibilities we impose on them are contrary to the powers of the municipalities. I fully support those of Mr. Lilkov because in his speeches there is professionalism, there is a regional understanding of the problems and willingness to offer solutions. I do not want to underestimate and ignore the right of opinion and decision of each of our colleagues, but the responsibility towards Bulgaria, the heritage in culture and in the way we make decisions here require that we be serious and responsible, and if we are not ready, we do not take them! Ladies and gentlemen, the ABB Parliamentary Group will not support any text because it contradicts the basic Law of Parliament and also contradicts the interests that Bulgaria has. Thanks, I graduated. [[Noise and lines from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u43	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any lines to Mr. Slavov's statement? I can't see. For speech there is the word of the people representative Julian Angelov. Is there anyone else who would like to speak under § 2? I won't. After her speech, if there are any lines to it, we'll go to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My speech will be in the direction of supporting Svetlana Angelova's proposal, namely Ruse to be the center for this activity in the territory of Ruse, where there are also many monuments of culture. I heard earlier that everyone is patriotic about their own area or city, but ultimately Ruse is the center of the planning area. If we make any proposals and they are based on the planning areas, as recorded in the Project, Ruse should be the center. However, we agree because Veliko Tarnovo really has specialists, and separately there are many monuments of culture that are problematic including. We need to solve these problems quickly. Let's have two centers. What's the problem? Isn't this bill proposed precisely so that citizens and local authorities and institutions can be relieved and work faster? Ruse cannot be ignored as a center because Ruse is the center of the planning area. At least it's one of the cities with people specialists, with a lot of cultural monuments. I think the local authorities in Ruse will do better than in Veliko Tarnovo in terms of knowing the specifics of the city itself, and also the territory of the municipality and the district. I ask you to support this proposal so that there is no opposition between the two cities. Let there be two centers that do not interfere in any way. After all, the idea is to do the job faster and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Anyone want to reply to Mr. Angelov's statement? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. First, we are voting on the proposal of MP Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs to be dismissed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 105 MPs: for 7, against 32, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on Mrs. Angelova's editorial proposal in § 1, para. 3, p. The municipality of Veliko Tarnovo, Ruse, is to be added for the North Central Region of Veliko Tarnovo. Isn't that right, Mrs. Angelova? They voted 112 MPs: 36, against 4, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, first of all, I must say that I am addicted because Ruse is my city, and I have grown up there, with its Vienna centre and all those sights. I don't care when such decisions are made, they should be informed or not. I would like to say something very briefly to you to see how management errors are made and then how difficult it is to fix. Back in 1987, when the districts were created, again because of certain Velmos... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u47	The procedure is re-voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u48	Of course. May I say an anecdote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u49	Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u50	Razgrad was designated as the centre of Razgrad region. Then the anecdote was created: "Who is this district town, whose opera is 60 km away from its center?" The district town was Razgrad, and the opera was in Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Please rethink Mrs. Angelova's proposal in § 1, para. 3, p. 5 to add Ruse. They voted 114 MPs: 38, against 8, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer in the version of § 2, which becomes § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: 93 against 4, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u52	Proposal by Ms. Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in its systematic position in § 1. A proposal from Mr. Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Ivan Ivanov and the MP Valentin Pavlov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the word "complex' is replaced by "concluding'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the words "Cultural values" shall be added, including in electronic form, in order laid down in the ordinance under art. 50, para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u53	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2. Vote 94 MPs: 88, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u54	Proposal by the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. A new § 2c shall be created with the following text: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 20 is amended as follows: Art. 20. (1) The structure and activities of NINK shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. (2) The Director of NIKN shall be appointed by the Minister of Culture after a competition, on the basis of a presented concept for the development of the NKN conservation system. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 point (b) shall be inserted after the word "constructions'. The projects of the transport and technical infrastructure, including the infrastructure, and the words of the technical infrastructure and the words of the technical infrastructure, shall be deleted; (b) c. 2 point (a) is replaced by the following: (c) c. 3 after the words "Part "Constructions and projects of transport and technical infrastructure," and the words "technical infrastructure" shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The introduction into operation of construction works under para. 1, t. 1 outside the cases referred to in Article 1. 83a, para. 2 shall be carried out after a positive opinion of the Minister of Culture or of officials authorised by him, and the executive documentation within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the territory shall be agreed according to the order of art. 84, para. 1 and 2. 4. In para. 5 the words "removement' shall be deleted in whole or in part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. To make a statement, the word is "Professor." Lilkov. Here you go, Professor. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I withdraw my proposal because, under the Law on the Protection of Culture, it is reflected in the Law itself. There's no point in putting him to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u57	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. The motion has been withdrawn. Statements on the creation of a new § 3? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3. They voted 86 MPs: 82, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u58	Proposal by the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs: A new § 2d is created with the following text: .............................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83a: 1. In para. 2 after a person in charge is added to the order of the Director of NIKN, depending on the category of the property. 2. In para 4 after the Ministry of Culture, the Director of NIKN is added, depending on the category of the property. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83a, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end is added to the renovations of roofs. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words in the interior shall be deleted; 3. Point 3 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u59	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 9 against 20, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u60	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in its respective systematic position in § 6. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 84 is amended as follows: Art. 84. (1) The agreement under this section shall be carried out with a written opinion and a stamp on the graphical materials within 4 months of the date of entry of the relevant documentation in NIKN or in the municipality, as determined under art. 17, para. 3. Investment projects and requests for interventions in protected areas for the protection of cultural heritage shall be imported: 1. for real cultural values with categories of world importance and importance, within their borders and security zones in NINKN. 2. for real cultural values with categories of local importance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 17, para. 3. (2) The agreement under para. 1 of the investment projects and requests for intervention under art. 83 shall be carried out by the Minister of Culture or officials authorised by the Minister of Culture for: 1. single and group real cultural values with categories of world importance and importance, within their borders and security zones - after the written opinion of NIKN. 2. individual and group real cultural values with categories of local importance......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 17, para. 3. (3) In the cases under para. 2 where single real-estate cultural values with categories of local importance,....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2, p. 2 shall be carried out after written opinion of the NECKN. (4) The projects of conservation and management plans, planning assignments, pilot projects and other real cultural heritage projects drawn up by NINK shall be agreed in accordance with para. 1 and 2 after an opinion of the Specialized Expert Council. 64, para. 2. (5) For carrying out the coordination under para. 2 and 3 shall be applied to the Minister of Culture through the Director of NIKN, respectively through the head of the unit under art. 17, para. 3 in a model approved by the Minister of Culture. A copy of the documentation shall be provided to NINKN for the completion of the archive fund. (6) The Director of NIKN, respectively in the cases under para. 2, p. 2 The head of the unit under art. 17, para. 3 shall give a written opinion within two months of the date of receipt of the application. (7) The written opinions under para. 6 shall be sent to the Minister of Culture no later than three days after the expiry of the period under para. 6 for their preparation. (8) Refusal to coordinate investment projects and requests for intervention under art. 83, motivate yourself in writing. (9) Refusal under para. 8 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) For the preparation of the written opinions under para. 2 by NIKN, respectively by the municipality under art. 17, para. 3 shall be charged in the amount determined by the tariff under Article 3. 19th para. 2 and in the relevant regulation under art. 9 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u61	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Professor. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to give an example of what we are going to vote on right now, how the law can actually be circumvented and a cultural heritage destroyed. This is about intervention projects, reconstruction in the security areas of cultural monuments. Since the mass of municipalities didn't set these security zones, they didn't make the rules for management and conservation, then the one who wants the appropriate intervention, and the one who authorizes it, will be the mayor. Imagine if such a project would pass?! NIKN is isolated, some competent authority is isolated, and the mayor's clerk will allow interference in the areas he has not designated, but is obliged to determine them. That is why, colleagues, I am telling you: before we start doing anything structural in this system, many, many other preliminary work must be done on the definition of these security zones, the management and conservation plans, the strengthening of the expertise, the assessment of the cultural heritage, are not monuments, i.e. a review of the register, the electronization of the national documentary archive. We're not doing anything right now! We untie the mayors' hands, untie the hands of local investors who can do whatever they want on cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u63	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. First line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u64	Just two sentences. The mayors can't do what they want, because the minister has the last word. The decision of these locals, however we call them, structures goes to the Ministry, there is a Department of Real Monuments, which advises the Minister, there is a special committee called "SOPKA" now I don't even remember what it is called, there can be consulted and everything can be stopped. But here Mr. Lilkov is right about the PUPs. Most of the municipalities in Bulgaria do not have PUPs, but they should have. This is already a matter of the government, which, by some law or by a decree, will force them to do PUPs within a certain period of time, because otherwise not only cultural heritage can be managed, but also many other structures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u65	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Second line? Here is the word of the People's Representative Krasimir Velchev for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u66	Dear colleagues, what is the philosophy of this Law? First of all, we're all talking about reform. This is one of the reforms we are trying to make. Philosophy is, first of all, decentralisation of power, that's what we've been talking about for ten years. Since the creation of GERB and I started to engage in politics, I have been constantly listening about this, but, unfortunately, it is not done. Now that's exactly what we want to do, decentralize power, and guess what's going to happen... We all know the situation is very difficult right now. We've established that for a year, groups, conversations, contact groups, specialists. We have to change it. I cannot agree with any other parliamentary group, but the parliamentary group, which is called the Reformation Bloc, wants to return the old situation before 10 November, I cannot understand them. This is not a reform to bring back and do what is currently not working, where corruption is proven where buildings fall. You see that eight buildings fell in Veliko Tarnovo in one year, here a week ago a building fell again. Not to mention the buildings for which there is footage, which I have not only delivered, but also from many regions, where you can see the buildings collapsing, there are signs I asked this question: well, if we continue and do not take any measures, and tomorrow, God forbid, you know, children play always where it is most dangerous or forbidden, injured children, who will be guilty?! We're all gonna pretend that nobody knew or was guilty. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think this is where we give the mayors the opportunity to take the initiative in their own hands because they answer to the voters in the settlements. People can't go to the mayors and shout, "How long will you put up with these dumps or covens of junkies and buildings collapsing?The Mayor can't do anything! He can best answer to voters and municipal councils for what is going on, so concerns, I think, are in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. The third line is Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u68	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House, on the contrary, I will be even more extreme and say that the situation is terrible right now. After eight years of mayorship, I say that the mayors are currently waiting for several years, I repeat, several years of co-ordination decisions from NIKN. This thing can't go on like this, because here I agree, Mr. Velchev, that everything then goes to the head of these mayors. NIKN is somewhere high in Sofia and every voter, and every citizen of the respective municipality seeks responsibility from the mayor. It's the truth! On top of that, Mr. Velchev and the group of MPs who have tabled a good bill, and my parliamentary group will support it firmly, do not find the hot water. This system has been introduced in Italy and in the Netherlands a two-level system in countries that, specifically in the field of cultural heritage, have many, many to catch up with. In this regard, we should not, as they say, take skeletons out of the closet and say how frightening the situation will be when it has not been seen. Now it's scary! Now, in this kind of way, it's scary! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u69	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, the situation is disastrous, but I want to give an example, as we are at a particular point and hypothesis. Center of Sofia, Blvd. The mass of the buildings are monuments of culture, part of the ensemble. And now, as a boulevard. "Vitosha" has no management plans, especially this ensemble, no conservation plans, tell me from what point of view can it be decided whether we will put the transparent shacks with which we girded the entire boulevard and disfigured it?! Here you are, colleagues, how does the local government, when deciding without defining the respective boundaries of this ensemble, without defining the respective management plans, allow interference in the security area that deface this ensemble after all. In terms of corruption. Yes, there is corruption, I agree. The question is: how are we going to fight it, by creating regional units to the mayors, or by creating regional units subordinate to an institution, to an institution? I'll tell you, fighting corruption is effective when you reduce the monopoly and increase transparency. At the moment, the steps in transparency have not yet been taken. In my opinion, the Ministry of Culture must be excluded from the decision-making process. What will the Ministry of Culture do and what decision can a project make, since they only have a few people in the Inspectorate?! They'll be overwhelmed with work. Colleagues, what we're about to make as a decision is not gonna work, and it's not gonna take the system out of the collapse it's in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u71	Thank you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we are voting on the version of § 3, which becomes § 5 in the Commission's report. Vote 95 MPs: 86, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u72	The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 169, para. 2 is finally added with a signature on graphical materials. § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197, para. 3 the number § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: supposed to fulfil his obligation under art. 71, para. 2 within the prescribed time limit is punished with a fine in the amount of (for the protocol the word of the person to be considered) 5000 to 10 000 BGN, and a single trader or legal person is subject to a penalty of 15 000 to 30 000 BGN. § 9. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Art. 200d. 200e: Art. 200 years. (1) An official who fails to fulfil within the statutory period his obligations under art. 84, para. 6, is punished with a fine of 500 to 3000 BGN. (2) When the act under para. 1 is repeated, the fine is from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. Art. 200d. Who implements investment projects for the construction and installation of monuments, monumental-decorative structures and elements in public spaces in urbanised and extra urban areas, as well as their relocation or removal without coordination with the Minister of Culture on the basis of a decision of the Specialized Expert Council on Fine Arts under art. 14, para. 2, is punished with a fine of 5000 to 10 000 BGN, and a single trader and a legal person is subject to a penalty of 15 000 to 30 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u73	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal to create paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u74	Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u75	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to establish a division called "Transitional and Final Provisions." Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u76	The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... (1) The sub-paragraphs referred to in art. 17, para. 3 shall be established within one year of the entry into force of this law. (2) Until the establishment of the respective municipal unit under art. 17, para. 3 applications for coordination under art. 84, para. 2 shall be submitted and coordination shall be carried out in the current order and the opinions shall be drawn up by NIKN. (3) The applications submitted before the entry into force of this Act for coordination under Chapter 5, Section V shall be examined and completed in the current order. (4) For declared and declared in accordance with § 10 and § 12 of the Transitional and Final Provisions real cultural monuments which are without a certain category until the entry into force of this law, the activities under art. 83 and coordination is carried out in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u77	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 10. They voted 99 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u78	Proposal by Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... The update of the register under art. 19th para. 1, t. 6, the creation and maintenance of a specialized card and registers under art. 19th para. 1, t. 7 shall be financed from the state budget, in accordance with the E-Management Strategy, by annual programmes approved by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u79	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 11. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u80	Proposal by Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... The activities under art. 19th para. 1, t. 6 relating to the update and keeping of the public register of real cultural values and of the National Documentary Archive Fund in electronic form shall be implemented within two years of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u81	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to establish § 12. Vote 95 MPs: 87, none, abstention 8. The proposal was adopted, and thus adopted in the second vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 554-01-128, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 July 2015, adopted at the first vote on 4 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u82	Thank you, colleagues, for your active participation in this so important Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u83	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov, and you. According to the weekly programme, the next item on the agenda is: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR WATERS. A joint project prepared by the Committee on Environment and Water on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 8 June 2016 with importers: Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on 18 June 2015; Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Willi Lilkov and Hristo Grudev on 27 May 2016. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on a general bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 653-11-5, of 9 June 2016, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on the basis of the bill adopted on 8 June 2016, adopted on the basis of the first vote on amendments to the Water Act, No 554-01-119, submitted by Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev on 18 June 2015, and the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 654-01-71, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Willi Lilkov and Hristo Grudev on 27 May 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Water Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, for reading quickly. Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u86	Thank you. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u87	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unfortunately, we are going back to the debate about putting water meters on the river again a favorite debate for some who do not understand, but for those who depend on their business is not so favorite. At first reading, the House supported this proposal. Unfortunately, last week in the Commission, I was unpleasantly surprised that the Commission rejected it and heard no strong and meaningful arguments for rejecting the proposal itself. Let me remind you of this. This is about setting measuring instruments for fishermen who are developing their activities on a river. There is currently no certification for such water meters to be placed. There's just no such certified water meters. Absolutely all the acts fall in court. Why should we keep such a requirement in the Law if the acts fall in court? As you know, if there's a fisherman on a river, there's water coming in, it's deflecting part, it's passing through the fishery and it's coming out. Fish don't drink water. In fact, the water that passes through the fishing pond settles there, the fishermen act as sedimentaries, and it comes out cleaner than it came in. We are also putting people who are doing business on the river. We are talking about 240 small and medium-sized enterprises in an unfair environment, as fishermen who are on a dam do not have such a restriction. This means that for one there is, expensive production, for the other none. We're putting them in an uneven position. The Committee on Agriculture and Food has supported the removal of this amendment, unfortunately, that of the environment and water rejected it. For me, it is a little strange that one committee supports it, unfortunately, the non-violent, and the host rejects it. I think the ruling majority is right and right policy is to support small and medium-sized businesses. What does that mean? This means a smaller country in the business to allow business to make an economy, to produce jobs so that business can endure itself and not depend on the state. Through the request to place such measuring facilities as... it just doesn't need them, we're actually loading the business, using it to be racketeered in some form, so we need to support dropping this requirement. The only argument I heard in the Commission when it was rejected is that the rivers will be drained in this way. I couldn't figure out how they'd be drained as the water went in, then it went back into the river. Putting a water meter in how does it interfere with drying or non-drying, if any? If there's a drought, where are the control organs? So we're not going to the water meter again, but did someone do their job on the chain?! There must be control, of course. In our proposal, by the way, it is explicitly stated that when it comes to chemical pollution of water, this restriction does not apply. This means that the argument for environmental protection is explicitly rejected in the proposal. I will personally ask the House, although rejected by the Commission, to support this proposal, as it helps small and medium-sized businesses and gives a sign that the National Assembly wants to help him that small and medium-sized businesses will be allowed to work in a competitive environment and be able to make an economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. A line of speech? Here you are, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ananiev! I think that in the discussion in the Committee on Environmental Protection and Leads it became clear why we do not want to support your proposal. It is about the regulatory content of a text that you are proposing and which is contrary to the objectives of environmental protection. It is not just the environmental objectives associated with chemical contamination. I understand your argument, if you had recorded more precisely organic aquaculture, it might have been more acceptable as a text related to environmental protection. But this is about protecting biodiversity in the relevant water site from which water quantities are seized. This is about principles for the use of water quantities when they are for general or individual use. I think it was clearly explained that it was free of charge. When used for business purposes, it is requited. By the way, the Law gives relief to aquaculture. When growing aquaculture, there are special reliefs in the Water Act. Your text has contradictory regulatory content in terms of environmental protection objectives and therefore we did not support it. I am about us supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. The BSP has always conducted policies aimed at supporting these enterprises and protecting those enterprises with regard to monopolies and large businesses. But what you are proposing cannot be accepted in terms of environmental objectives. That's the problem. Perhaps some future amendments to the Law should consider a clearer text to meet both environmental objectives and protection of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u91	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Second line: Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ananiev, the discussion during the meeting of the Commission was quite interesting, different opinions were expressed, but we all united together with the exception of you and colleague Velikov that this thing should not be allowed. My argument is related to the water consumption of the hydroelectric power plants. Mr. Ananiev, the hydropowers, with great losses, are obliged to water them, while here we cannot in any way oblige these fishermen to release certain quantities of water. You know, if the water goes down in the fishermen, the fish in them will die. This is a fact, but why do we have to drain a river so that someone can do business? If he wants to do business, he will carry it out in accordance with the principles and laws adopted in that country. You can't dry the river for a fisherman. You are proposing that at the moment this does not apply water meters, that they can divert the entire amount of the river and thus drain it. I don't see the point. And here we're talking about 1,000 to 3,000 leva. on a water meter. Is that the problem? 1000 to 3000 BGN. for a water meter?! You say there's no one to certify them. We're gonna do it this way, make sure they're certified. There's no problem with that. But why, again, do I ask, are rivers being drained for doing business? If you could explain this to me, I'd appreciate it. Again, in the Commission, we have all united against your proposal, which we do not think is appropriate to support in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The third line is the People's Representative Jevdet Chakarov. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, honourable colleagues! The considerations of the previous colleagues, Mr. Ananiev, were very well pointed out and explained. The main argument on which you have developed your thesis today is in terms of biodiversity. Naturally, here I would not even like to specify and point out the individual cases of waterponds that, in principle, when there is water taking from the drain of the river concerned, a minimum drain should be provided in order to ensure biodiversity. This is a basic principle that is respected. Today, I would not like to practice from the National Assembly's platform in hypotheses, when a drain will be taken away, whether entirely, for fishermen, so as not to provide a minimal drain for biodiversity. I would not like to underestimate the capacity and expertise of the employees of the Ministry of Environment and Water. This would not be allowed in any case when the appropriate analyses are being carried out and it is appropriate to issue the relevant water management authorisation, but it is a matter of principle with regard to water meters, what you are proposing. We DPS have always been about supporting small and medium-sized businesses, but this must be done in a clear, transparent environment, there must be correctness. In this way, there will be much better competition and competition between individuals in small and medium-sized businesses, i.e. what is used or consumed must be properly paid and not created in this way, I would say unfair competition. You, as a representative of the right political space, should rather plead the opposite. I hope that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Ananiev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To all the negotiators who actually united around one that protect small and medium-sized businesses this is shown by deeds, not by words. Not only do we talk about protecting him, but when specific measures are adopted to protect small and medium-sized businesses. This means that when the state is somehow trying to put some barriers to doing business, then let us intervene and let the business fight alone in a competitive environment. Now for the specific lines. First of all, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, who spoke about the conservation of the biological species. When we put in a water meter, how do we protect the biological species?! With a water meter, we protect the species?! It's a little weird for me. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] For Mr. Ivanov, who said that yes, yes, there is no certification, but we will. We're gonna do it, but there's no certification right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u97	If there isn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u98	We want something to happen in the Law, and we don't have such certified conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u99	If there's no certification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u100	Not at the moment. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u101	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u102	Also: why hasn't any of these fishermen installed such a device? Why do the acts fall in court? Think about it! We want one condition to remain in the Law, and the acts fall in the court. That means the court considers it insane to do this. I also want to fix Mr. Ivanov. The ABB colleagues also supported a Commission meeting on dropping the water meter, so it wasn't just us. Personally, I don't think there's any way to drain a river, but by putting a water meter, we can stop this drying. He's got control organs. If someone somehow abuses that right, the control body can go and intervene. And right now, if someone decides to illegally pull over a river, use it for anything other than intended, there should be control to go, check, stop this thing. So the control body can do its job. At the moment, none of these 240 fishermen are draining a river. The water pulls over, passes through the fishing pond and comes back. Like we said, fish don't drink water. We can't drain the river as the water goes back. The idea of the business model is there to have running water to pass. She can't be stopped, held in the fishing pond. What's he gonna do with it? That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u103	They could be miles!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u104	No dialogue from place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u105	So I will call on you, however, to support this amendment, as we must let small and medium-sized businesses work peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The question was raised about the principles that are being violated by this proposal by my colleague Ananiev. One of the fundamental principles that is broken is the Water Act and European legislation. The Water Act introduces several principles arising from European legislation: a principle of water service retribution and a principle of reimbursement of water service costs. The exemption from the water levy for carrying out business is clearly contrary to the objectives of the Water Act, both in respect of the water resource conservation policy and the principle of uniform legal conditions for carrying out business in the use of the resource. The principle of European legislation regarding the authorisation regime and the seizure and use of water should be respected in our country, as I suppose my colleague is aware that we are members of the European Union. The other thing that is being broken is regarding the agreement between Bulgaria and the European Commission on the ESI Funds during the period 2014 - 2020. The removal of water measurement would result in the whole sector being deprived of participation in European projects and absorption of EU funds, which the colleague hardly meant when he proposed this Bill. Indeed, it should be taken into account the interest of absolutely all those working in the sector, which, in my opinion, is seriously damaged in this case. Naturally, in breach of this principle, criminal procedures will be carried out against our country. As you know, we will most likely be sentenced to quite serious fines. You know that the area of ecology is currently at one of the first places in interest in the European Commission. So I propose that we protect our country's interest and reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line of speech? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u109	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! Water is the natural environment in which fish live. If we decide that payment should be required for this, it means that all those who grow animals must pay for the air these animals breathe. This is the environment in which they live. It is not true what you are saying about the penalty procedure, because, in your opinion, if I have a water meter, I can apply for euro funds if I do not have one, I cannot. This is what I want to see where it is written in which European directive, because there is no logic that someone who has not put a water meter should not be able to apply for EU funds. No criminal procedure will enter Bulgaria because nothing is violated, which is according to the requirements of the European Union. So I don't agree with what you said. I still insist that this requirement should be dropped, as no meaningful arguments have been made so far to support its stay at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Ananiev, the procedures are imposed in relation to the legislation that is being done in this Chamber. If we reject and actually accept the removal of water meters at the moment, we are in violation of these agreements that we have signed. This will trigger the application of those sanctions that have been mentioned. It's not about dividing who has or who doesn't. The whole sector is gonna get hurt. Even the conscientious people who have put water meters in themselves will also not be able to participate in the application for European projects thanks to the fact that 4 " 5 people have come to you," asked you as some lobbyist you enter and ask us to violate all the laws adopted in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u112	For a statement there is a word from the public representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, colleague Ananiev! You have provoked me to take the floor, because obviously, the very clear arguments you say there are none. Let me explain. The use of water resources in terms of environmental protection has several objectives. One of them is the conservation of biodiversity in the relevant water site. When you change the regime of a water object, you somehow violate the living conditions of the biological species in it. The requirement to control the use of water quantities shall be made precisely in order to ensure that the water regime on the site concerned does not violate those biological limits at which biodiversity is maintained and improved. Is that what you can't understand? I don't know how to explain it more clearly. Secondly, creating prerequisites for uncontrolled use of water quantities, you create prerequisites for abuse of this right, and these quantities, once used for aquaculture, can also be used for uncontrolled irrigation afterwards. You should also take that into account. Environmental protection objectives are linked to rational and efficient use of water resources. That's the principle. You want a violation of this principle in order to uncontrollably enjoy water quantities. We do not mind, I repeat, giving better conditions for the development of some business to small and medium-sized enterprises. The BSP policy has always been that and will be that. We protect these businesses and their interests because they provide jobs. But your norm that you are proposing is contrary to the environmental objectives and cannot be supported. Maybe at an earlier stage there should have been clearer intentions on your part, some consultations to find the right form, to preserve business goals for the development of a business, but not contrary to environmental protection. Probably in future amendments to the Law and this will be achieved. That's it. And please do not abuse or repeat the same thing that your proposal is rejected without arguments. On the contrary, the arguments are clear. Your proposal is not in line with the environmental objectives. As an idea, it may be a good idea in terms of protecting the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, but not in this way. We cannot reject the principle of efficient and rational use of water resources. This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u114	Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u115	Dear President, dear Mr. Georgiev! Several times you mentioned the untrained. At the moment, there are people who are disrupting biodiversity...these 240 companies that are on the river right now are violating biodiversity out of control, no one is controlling them, they are left to break it. That's what you're actually saying, as I understand it from you. I do not agree, as these enterprises pay in volume. And right now, there's a form in which you can calculate what needs to be paid. If someone in any way breaks the law, they have organs to track them. We cannot say: Since someone can abuse, we will take these preditions. It's got organs that control it. Right now we're just talking about water meters. I didn't hear about the water meter itself. What's your argument? I didn't hear that argument. For putting the water meters there, what is the argument? Biological diversity? We're putting in a water meter, we're protecting biodiversity, there's no water meter, we're not keeping it? That's what it looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u116	Second line? A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u117	Colleague Ananiev, so you understood what I said. The principle is that water quantities used should be measured and taken into account. Do you think it'll work with a water meter? The Commission explained to you that there are other technical tools. You do not say whether to put a water meter or not, but you say to drop the obligation of producers of these aquaculture to measure and report water quantities. That's what your norm says, it's not about water meters. As the obligation to measure and report water quantities will be removed, thus creating a threat to biodiversity, to abuse of other water uses that may occur and so on. Again: as a left-wing party we are supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and their business, but not in this incorrect way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u118	Mr. Rumen Hristov has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, indeed, the Committee on Agriculture and Food has supported the proposal of my colleague Nastimir Ananiev, but I would like to stress that we are not a leading committee and I do not want to question the competences of my colleagues from the Committee on Environment and Water. What was our reasoning regarding what our colleague proposed, and what were our concerns? We came mainly from understanding that we are talking about the so-called "sourcing type of bellies." These are mainly trout farms where water as a certain quantity enters from one end and comes out with the same quantity from the other end. It was explained that at this stage we could hardly do such a throwing, otherwise its meaning is logical. The comment, however, mostly from the Committee on Agriculture and Food was: what do we do when we measure these quantities? Are the water used or not paid for? The water used can be used in several directions. One is irrigation. The quantities applied there do not disappear, but go into the soil, absorbed by plants and there is no return to rivers, dams or water sources from which they are used. The other option is when the waters are used for fishers, some of them long-term, others stationary, then they can be used for other purposes, that is, water does not disappear. The question is: if the waters are contaminated, should they pay appropriate fees or not? In my opinion, they have to pay corresponding fees. The idea was that at this point we didn't have a clear answer, mostly from the engineering thought, in what way the measurement would be done. That is why we supported the proposal by colleague Ananiev. Again, the competence of the committee is important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u120	Any lines to Mr. Christov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the dispute can, of course, be fought on the ground. That's what I'm calling you to. I would like to say a few more things that are in favour of the proposal of colleagues Ananiev and Delchev not only because they are from our parliamentary group, but because I believe that in our National Assembly there should be common sense, consistency in reasoning, respect for our decisions which we make ourselves, or in the Commission, or in plenary, things that will help raise the authority of the National Assembly. Here it was said that measuring facilities should be installed in order to respect all principles of environmental protection. This is controversial because the seized and used water returns practically in the same volume. There's really no taken amount of water to measure. This is something I'd like you to pay attention to. In aquaculture production, water is an environment for fish development, not a raw material. The water practically passes without any change and really does not take away the amount of water. The same volume that is temporarily removed is returning to the river. What's there to measure? The same volume returns really to the river. In the water use permits issued for all, there is an explicit condition to ensure that the environmental minimum of... is not allowed to dry out, the deaths of water inhabitants in the section between water capture and water return. This must be observed and controlled. Again, I stress for colleagues who are not obliged to be specialists in this area: the water that is seized and used by fish, they live there, this same water, in the same volume is returned. What's there to measure? That's how I ask the question! I'd ask if you'd like to, Professor. Bachvarova is here to take the attitude, I appreciate her opinion as a specialist in this area, Professor Stankov these are specialists in this particular area. Let them say their views on these matters. We must respect the views of our colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. They have practically unanimously supported in the Commission the bill of colleagues Ananiev and Delchev. We have adopted in this House this Bill at first reading and such a misappropriation now in the Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u122	Well, what's with the cheating?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u123	Such a conversion of opinion to the Commission is perhaps due to some lobbyist in the meantime, not to blame our colleagues who are purely motivated. I declare that we have no personal interest in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u124	Any lines to Mr. Veliv? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u125	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In the Committee on Agriculture and in the Committee on Environment and Water, I supported the proposal of Mr. Ananiev and Mr. Delchev with full conviction that it is right. Both committees at first reading expressed a positive opinion and supported this bill. Now one Commission maintains its proposal, the other Commission votes against. Colleagues, I would like to assure you that this proposal is correct because we need to distinguish between water use and water use. Fish producers and water producers apply the first water consumption because, as many colleagues have said, fish do not consume water. Here we are talking predominantly about trout farms. Those who have a concept and know what it is about know that trout likes flowing and colder waters, that is, water enters these pools, then comes back out. She doesn't need it. Something else we discussed quite specific. Last night I also consulted Mr. Pashov Chairman of the Aqua Producers Association. He said there were no reliable surface water measuring devices. There are such underground devices, but very often they are subjected to currents, external weather conditions and are wasted very quickly. This means that we will continue to load small and medium-sized farmers to put measuring instruments on something beyond their reach. We commented that there was almost a lot of pollution in these river basins. This is not exactly what this is about right now, but I also want to say: there is no such contamination because the Swimming Directorate is exercising very serious control. It was said to be throwing rotten grain and other things, but I don't think it pollutes the water. Pollutants established by the Swimming Directorate shall pay appropriate fines and a charge for pollution. I propose that we support the Bill because it benefits small and small farmers and we will not do anything wrong with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u126	Any lines to Mr. Stankov? None Any other MPs? The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the first vote the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected. 110 MPs voted: 85 against 14, 11 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u127	Under Paragraph 2, there is a proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov: I propose that § 2 of the General Bill on the PID of the Water Act be deleted and that the other paragraphs be renumbered. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's test and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 2. Vote 97 MPs: 84, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u129	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u130	Statements? I won't. We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u131	According to § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, which is not supported by point. 1 and is supported by t. 2: "1." In § 4, t. 2 of the General Law on the CYD of the Water Act, which amends art. 140, para. 6 of the Water Act, I propose to create a new item. 3 containing the following content: "3." Sells the seized material by auction, with the funds of the sale remaining in the budget of the regional administration and can be spent only on disaster protection events. This is the unsupported part of Mr. Chakarov's proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: 138, para. 4 t. 5 whose implementation is provided by the district governors and mayors under para. 4, 5 and 6 shall also be financed by the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, provided they are included in the Annual Plan for the Implementation of the National Programme for Disaster Risk Reduction, and shall include: (b) To be created t. 6: It's six. cleaning of river beds from delivery deposits to ensure their normal conduction. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In the light of the interagency committees under para. 4 t. 1 and para. 5, t. 1 It is established that the conduction of the riverbed is necessary for the maintenance of the conduction of deposits or plans under art. 151, para. 2, p. 2 point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 includes measures to ensure the conductivity of river beds due to accumulated deposits which create a flood risk, the governor: 1. organize and commission the performance of the cleaning activities necessary to ensure normal conduction of the riverbed; 2. coordinate activities with the competent environmental authority. 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Director of the relevant pool director shall issue a permit to use a water site to the designated contractor under para. 6 for the seizure of deposits in relation to the planned activities for cleaning the riverbed. The terms and procedure for issuing the permit, its content and the content of the technical design for the seizure shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 135, para. 1, t. 1a...........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Statements? Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! In § 4, t. 2 of the General Law of the CYD of the Water Act, which amends art. 140, para. 6 of the Water Act was presented by Mr. Ivanov, but in view of the discussion, I propose to supplement it with a new sentence with the following content: "3." Sells the seized material by auction, with the funds from the sale remaining in the budget of the district administration... I propose in the text of the provision of art. 140, para. 6 of the Water Act to restore t. 3 from the current version with some correction. For me it is not acceptable the proposed drop of the current item. 3 of para. Article 6 140. According to the provisions in force, the regional governor is obliged to sell the seizeds while maintaining the conduction of the riverbed and bed material of the port materials by means of an auction with a price declared at a price not lower than the value of the charge. This is according to the tariff of art. 194, para. 6, and the funds of the sale remain in the budget of the regional administration and can only be spent on disaster protection. This is a good provision that ensures that regional governors accumulate funds that will be spent precisely on disaster protection measures. I do not accept the reasons of the importers of the Bill that with the removal of the text for sale, it is proposed that each district manager, within the framework of his operational autonomy, be able to choose from the legal decisions for action what is considered most appropriate. My concern is that if you accept what is proposed by the importers of ZID of the Water Act dropping out of t. 3, then the district governors will be able to dispose of the seized material themselves, as they consider well, including selling it at prices that would be in one or the other direction, we can say with dubious motives, or handing it over free to the cleaning contractor or to third parties. In order to comply with art. 17, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act, I accept that the proceeds from the sale of the seized material cannot be targeted, which is why I propose a change which I have already proposed in the text for this point. 3 in the sense that the text can only be used for disaster protection. However, I believe that it should remain the obligation for the governor to sell the seized material by auction. This will reduce the corruption pressure on it and will not provoke the application of controversial and unregulated practices, as well as disguised, unregulated extraction of aggregates. My offer is in line with art. 64, para. 1 of the State Property Act, according to which the sale of surplus and unfit goods, as well as of acquired materials from the clearing of construction sites, is carried out by auction or on stock exchanges. As it concerns acquired materials from the deposits that have been obtained in maintaining the conduction of the riverbed and not from construction sites, art. 64, para. 1. In order to unify the regime, I propose that the materials from the deposits acquired while maintaining the conduction of the riverbed are also sold by auction. As the conduction of the river beds can be maintained, a diverse material can be obtained from both deposits and wood or other components, I propose from the previous text of the provision that the limit of the initial price to the tariff under art. 194, para. 6. In view of the above, I believe that the dropping of this clause is contrary to the public interest and creates, on the one hand, the prerequisites for abuse, for idleness and for corrupt practices, and on the other hand, deprives the governor of funds aimed at spending on disaster protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. I take it that, in the text of the Commission, § 2, para. 6, p. 2, you propose to supplement point 3 "This is the unsupported part of your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u135	There is also a specific text which has been presented. I read it a little while ago. I'll leave it to you if I have to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u136	The editing of t. 3 in addition to t. 2 for changes to para. 6. At the moment, on the Commission's report, it is of two points.. You are proposing to have a third. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Chakarov, I absolutely agree with you that it is good that the funds from the sale of the seized material should be targeted. However, as we have spoken at the Commission's meeting, it has become clear that this proposal of yours is contrary to a number of laws. It cannot be supported because how will the sale of deposits, such as mud, such as wood, which is rotten, junk, such as tires and so on, be carried out by auction? This can't just be written down by auction to sell all the seized material. Perhaps the text should be refined on the one hand, but it is impossible, as I repeat, this is contrary to a number of laws for which we have an opinion. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance is that it contradicts the Public Finance Act: The main principle is that the proceeds are not targeted and serve to cover payments, i.e. the implementation of specific costs does not depend on the size and dynamics of specific revenue sources. Accordingly, the implementation of this provision also involves budgetary organisations regardless of their status. Again, I initially agreed with your proposal, but once I found out that it was contrary to the Public Finance Act and other laws, I think we should not support it. It is not an insignificant fact that only inert materials that can be sold are not scraped out, but also mud and a lot of junk that can't be auctioned. I therefore ask you to withdraw the proposal and to vote on the texts as proposed by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u138	Second line? A hole, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u139	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ivanov, honourable colleagues! In the exhibition I did just now, Mr. Ivanov, in the reasons I made clear why there was a change in the text I proposed initially. In view of the considerations presented by the Ministry of Finance for not being able to collect a target of finance for targeted spending. I withdrew this part of the budget to be spent precisely on disaster protection. I support, as at the Commission's meeting, when considering a second reading of the Law, which we are discussing at the moment that the governor of the district is correct to spend these funds, or any one of them, precisely for such purposes, in view that the funds are not sufficient anyway, we do not reach each one of us knows it, and it is good to use them in this aspect. The correction was made by me in view of those considerations. Otherwise, whether to be by auction or not, and the recital that you submit that there are other materials, and not only inert materials, may also be so. In view of this, I correctly propose that the minimum price that has been in effect so far in the legal framework be accepted by me, but this must be very objective and correctly presented. I maintain my position to do so by auction. I believe that, in this way, the public interest would be protected to the maximum extent and there would be maximum transparency. There shall be proceeds of as much money as possible to carry out objectives with a view to protecting against disasters. It's not enough money anyway. I have set an example for you. Sorry, only two sentences, Madam President, that countries such as France and Germany, which have also been flooded, are releasing a huge resource. Most of the time, that's not enough. The goal is to have a minimization if not a complete prevention. We have to do this thing. The funds are insufficient. This was one of the reasons why the measures from the flood risk management plans were not implemented. Funds are needed and I maintain my position and my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u140	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I'm just gonna say two words. Mr. Chakarov, the Water Act is a special law. We should not, by means of the Water Act, tell the district governors how to carry out this work. This is my supplement, plus what I just said, there's mud and other things that can't be sold through auction. Those are our two main motives. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw it and not vote on it, except that it is contrary to the laws, something very important, this is a special Law which should not restrict the rights of the regional governors in how they will spend these materials. That was my supplement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u142	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the unsupported part of Mr. Jevdet Chakarov's proposal, and that's what this is all about. 1 of its proposal on the Commission report. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by a Member of the National Assembly. 90 MPs voted: 37 against 15, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chakarov made an editorial addition to the version of § 2 on the report of the Commission by proposing in point. 2 to change para. 6, in addition to the two points shown in the table, add up to the present point. 3 with the following content: "Sells seized material by auction, and the funds from the sale remain in the budget of the district administration. We vote on this supplement. They voted 93 MPs: 32, against 12, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote §2 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u143	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u144	Statements? I won't. Anblok, I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 5 by importer, to reject the name "Concluding provision" and to reject § 6 by the report. We are voting on the three proposals of the Commission. All three are for rejecting the import texts. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Abort to 12.05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u145	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The sitting continues with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. Reports have been received from the committees to which it has been assigned. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. A Member of the National Assembly is wanted to propose the report from the Regional Commission. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. We will then hear the report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 23 April 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs on 27 March 2015. The Commission's meeting was attended by Mr. Ivan Asparuhov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and representatives of civil organisations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ivan Slavov. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration provide a legal opportunity for municipalities to establish within their administrative structure control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality on the protection of order, the conservation of municipal property and the organization of the movement in the settlements. The employees of these units will support the overall control and administrative criminal activity of the municipality, providing them with the minimum necessary powers for that purpose. The proposed changes will create conditions for improving the control and administrative-criminal activity of municipalities in the implementation of local regulations and provide prerequisites for improving measures for the conservation of municipal property, including public infrastructure. The new powers of the employees of the municipal administration will enable the municipality to carry out the control and administrative-criminal activities of compliance with the local authorities. In view of the financial impact of the envisaged changes, according to importers, they will not lead to additional burden on municipal budgets. Such units will be set up as needed, after a corresponding decision of the municipal councils on the structure of the administration. In general, these activities will be carried out as before by the existing municipal control units. The proposed bill creates conditions for more effective implementation of the work of control functions units, with municipal revenues expected to increase from fines and penalties imposed on infringements. The envisaged legal changes do not cancel the possibility of municipalities wishing and having the necessary resources to use the structure "Community Police" under the Ministry of Interior Act for more complex public order tasks, taking advantage of the full police powers of the relevant officials. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Interior and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works expresses principle support for the need to refine the regulations relating to the powers of mayors in the protection of public order, but draws attention to the lack of financial collateralisation of the activities of the units, the precision of control functions and the methodological management of this activity. In the opinion of the Ministry of Interior, a number of comments were made on the precision of the proposed new powers of the employees in the control units in the administration and expressed disagreement with the duplication of functions typical for police officers under the Ministry of Interior Act. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expresses the principle support of the Bill. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported in principle the need for changes to specify the provisions in the legislation relating to the powers of the mayors of municipalities in order to protect public order. In addition, attention was paid to the mixing of the various control functions proposed in the Bill. It was stressed that the employees with control functions in municipal administrations and now have some of the powers offered in the project, except for police functions under the Ministry of Interior Act, which are explicitly provided to mayors of districts and mayors. Some of the Members of the National Assembly expressed reservations regarding the proposed changes, paying attention to the need to refine the proposed texts in the Draft, the vague financial security of the proposed additional powers and the lack of requirements for qualification of the relevant staff to exercise them, as well as to the contradiction of some of the provisions proposed by the Ministry of Interior Act. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 4 votes in the House, without the opposition and 9 votes in the National Assembly, proposed that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs, not be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u148	Madam President, honourable Members, I will read to you: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 27 May 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs on 27 March 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov and by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Ivan Asparuhov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Ivan Slavov. The proposed amendments and additions to the Draft provide a legal opportunity for municipalities to establish specialized control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and of the mayor concerning the protection of order, the absorption of municipal terrains, the parking of vehicles, the conservation of municipal property, the implementation of temporary commercial activity on the territory of the municipality. The proposed changes aim at improving the control and administrative activities of municipalities, creating an opportunity for municipalities to self-control. The proposed bill is generally supported by the National Association of Municipalities. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior, presented by Deputy Minister Ivan Asparuhov, focused on the problem related to the financial provision of the activities of the proposed structure, as well as the overlap of functions provided by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior, expressed by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, is that the bill needs to be refined, as they overlap the functions of the proposed units with those of the inspectors or of the municipal police. In addition, the opinion disagrees with duplication of functions assigned by police officers under the Ministry of Interior Act. During the discussion the MPs stressed the need to establish norms related to the powers of the local authorities to protect public order and control the implementation of the acts of municipal councils and the mayors of municipalities. However, the proposed legal norms should be refined. It was stressed that the employees in municipal administrations and now have some of the powers offered in the project. In addition, police functions have been provided to mayors of districts and town halls. It was expressed that matter is very important and sensitive because the protection of public order and security in the country is an obligation and power under the Constitution of the Central Government in the face of the Council of Ministers and at the same time the Law reflects that the mayor is responsible for the protection of public order and security in the municipality. Some of the MPs noted that no financial collateralisation of the proposed additional powers was provided. The contradictions in some of the provisions proposed by the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act are inadmissible and should be properly refined. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 2 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. On behalf of the importers, the public representative Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov will take over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u150	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the importers, I will express the following opinion. In a situation where there are two negative decisions of two committees, such protection will be difficult, but I suggest you listen to it. Our motives are as follows. In carrying out their legal responsibilities as well as in applying local policies, the local authorities do not have relatively effective control instruments as well as the protection of municipal property. For these purposes, the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior authorities is generally relied on. It is obvious, however, that with the available personnel resources the police cannot meet the real needs. The legal opportunity created in 2010 with amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act to set up the Municipal Police Unit responded in part to these needs. The fact is that a relatively limited number, mainly large and rich municipalities, have been able to take advantage of this opportunity. The reason is in the high value of the maintenance of an employee from this unit, but also additional problems related to organizational character. The envisaged legal form for the implementation of this activity as a service contract between the mayor of the municipality and the Director of the Regional Directorate of Internal Affairs further burdened the VAT price. In the activities of municipalities in the control of the implementation of local regulations, administrative-criminal activity, the security of municipal property, parking control is a major problem is the lack of adequate powers for authorized municipal employees. They are not even allowed to require an identity document to initiate the administrative criminal procedure. For the security of the municipal property site the municipality has to license itself under the Law on Private Security. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration provide a legal opportunity for municipalities to establish within their administrative structure control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and of the mayor of the municipality, which will be related to the protection of order in the respective municipality. The employees of these units will support the overall control and administrative criminal activity in the municipality. To this end, they shall be granted the minimum legal powers. The proposed changes will create conditions for improving the control and administrative-criminal activities of municipalities in implementing local regulations. In particular, this relates to preventive and actuarial activities. It also creates prerequisites for improving measures for the conservation of municipal property, including public infrastructure. On the issue of financial impact raised, we believe that the financial impact of the envisaged changes will not lead to additional burden, and I stress, moreover, that of municipal budgets. Such units will be set up if necessary by a relevant decision of the municipal council and the financial opportunity in this regard will be assessed. The municipal councils will also be able to assess the very structure of these units. In the general case of the activities that I have cited above are still being carried out by the existing municipal control units, the so-called inspectorates. The proposed bill creates conditions for more effective implementation of the work of control functions units, with municipal revenues expected to increase from fines and penalties imposed on infringements. The envisaged legal changes do not cancel the possibility of municipalities wishing and having the necessary resources to use the structure of municipal police under the Ministry of Interior Act, which refers to more complex public order tasks, taking advantage of the full police powers of the relevant officials. I would also like to emphasise that there is in principle an agreement in both reports with the need for such a bill. For example, in the report of the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the following is literally written in the report: "In the course of the discussion, the speakers supported, in principle, the need for changes to specify the provisions of the legislation relating to the powers of the mayors of municipalities in the protection of public order. Such a finding is also contained in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke stressed the need to establish norms related to the powers of the local authorities to protect public order and control the implementation of the acts of municipal councils and the mayors of municipalities. I understand the concern that creates the provision.............................................................................................. 44b, para. 4, I stress again, we are in the process of a first vote here. In principle, such a bill should be adopted with a view to the correctness of the principles it applies and not with the exact legal wording that can be amended, changed in the course of the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikiforov. This was an opinion on behalf of an importer. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand this initiative. It is caused by the fact that the work of police authorities against domestic crime is low-performance, to put it mildly, perhaps, especially with regard to the conservation of agricultural crops, domestic thefts and so on. However, the bill generally contradicts the Constitution. That's the big problem. In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers provides public order and security in the country. This is the text that regulates this activity and entrusts it to the central government. The attempts made over the years for the creation of the Departments of Municipal Police in the Private Security Act to seal or this gap to be filled are ineffective. Although it sounds unnatural in this debate, I think that if we want to radically change this activity, if there is such will, we should submit a draft amending the Constitution. Decentralise the activities of protecting public order and security in the country and entrust it to both central and local authorities. The text in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, under which the mayor is entrusted with the responsibility for the protection of public order, is without any lining. The mayor doesn't have tools. So what if it is written that he is responsible and has no tools to perform these functions. At this stage, there is no way to support this bill. The views of both committees are correct at least because it is unconstitutional. Secondly, the problem of financing this activity. Giving the opportunity to establish municipal police units did not give any effect for the simple reason that this activity is extremely expensive and the municipalities do not have financial opportunities to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? There's no one for a line. Anyone who wants to make a statement? The People's Representative Ivan Slavov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will allow myself to begin with the statement made by the honourable Mr. Atanasov. Whether the Law is unconstitutional, there is only one body today that can decide the Constitutional Court. In this sense, I allow myself to emerge from the position that the draft law is not only unconstitutional, but makes a serious attempt to respond to problems that are real, accompany the responsibilities of the mayors and authorities of the local government, and, together, it is on the agenda of the Bulgarian society as initiatives of various entities seeking to consult the people about their participation in the selection of individuals responsible for the order of one territory or another. Otherwise, the Law is the product of several-year dialogues involving the previous government, represented by the then majority and with continued interaction with the representative body of municipalities in this case, the importers we represent, one of our colleagues from our parliamentary group. Perhaps precisely because the necessary text is missing, our first proposal in the Bill is: in art. Article 17 and in art. 21 to add the necessary texts: to provide responsibilities to local self-government bodies, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to add the powers of municipal councils to rule on issues of public order on the territory of the municipality. Further, the Law offers and signs responsibilities that specialized units to ensure the order and care of municipal property would have. Last but not least, it answers the question of the competence of the training units, which will be carried out on the Ministry of Interior Act and the corresponding partnership between the local authorities and the internal affairs authorities. The argument of precision can be placed on any act that is of our attention. Surely any act can be more perfect. However, it is not sufficient to reject the need for such a legal act that we are standing behind today. Next, the problem of financing the activities of the units should not be seen as an obstacle to the adoption of the Law, because the body providing the activity is the municipal council. The budget of the municipality is that material prerequisite which it will be able to provide if the municipal council decides that there is a need for such a specialized unit for public order and ensuring the management of municipal property. In this sense, I believe that the arguments that have been presented could be discussed and are not an obstacle to the adoption of the Law, which is of your attention today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u155	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Mr. Willy Lilkov
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will give my opinion on the submitted Bill from a general point of view. It is true what Mr. Atanasov said, it is true that at the moment municipal police can be established in the municipalities. However, I consider this Bill as an occasion to begin a discussion on this matter within the framework of the measures already voted by the Ministry of Interior about 103 to deal with domestic crime. You know that the National Crime Prevention Council has adopted about 103 measures in which commitments to implement them have numerous departments, including municipalities, and the National Association of Municipalities. My personal opinion is to support the Bill of First Voting and to get into a more serious discussion about what the local authorities can do about how it can get involved in dealing with the overall problem. From another point of view, we already have an example with Sofia Municipality and some municipalities that created municipal police. It must be seen how effective they are within the limits of the powers that the mayors and the municipal police currently have. I say that in this regard it is not much progress in the protection of public order in Sofia. I believe that this is a timely debate that can become part of the great debate on the role of individual institutions in tackling domestic crime and prevention of crime at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u157	Any lines to Mr. Lilkov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that the review of the amendment in the Law clearly and categorically shows several things. First, you want to introduce elements of police force with the possibilities of the municipal administration. You might as well suggest that municipal officials have police powers to be able to detain, interrogate, since they will be able to call citizens. This is most likely your first step to transfer responsibility from the executive authority, from the Ministry of Interior to the municipal administration. Nothing more! Recognition of the Ministry of Interior's inability to cope with public order protection! Those who defend the proposed amendments to the Law are aware of this. There is no financial justification for how the municipal administrations will ensure... The desire to ease the budget of the Ministry of Interior is very small. The real conclusion is that the Ministry of Internal Affairs abdicated from basic activities, replaced by Law. We're going to create chaos. Who's the competent authority in the event of a disturbance of public order? Colleagues, the desire of this government and the structured majority in this Parliament is clear with all the changes you have made and in the desire to give such powers to the NRA, the Customs Agency. Who else are you going to pass on the first steps to police authority? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u159	This is ABB's offer, not our Law. There, look, we've rejected it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u160	It may be the ABB's proposal, but with the vote it will become clear whether you will allow the Bulgarian citizens to blame you for policeness, as they accused you in the cabinet Borisov 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u161	Any lines to Mr. Iankov? Colleagues, let's welcome our guests today - students from Veliko Tarnovo and Dryanovo will monitor the work of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] We're listening, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. One short line: if we reduce this conversation only to the possibility of holding, arresting people and questioning each other, colleague Yankov, we will simply confuse the debate. Public order is not limited to such violations. A violation of public order, for example, is the noise, and whatnot, if you will, of the illegal deployment of objects and so on. So don't narrow the debate down to just these opportunities of the mayor and the municipal police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u163	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u164	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Mr. Lilkov, there is no need to change the Law and you are aware of that. There are regulations which are adopted by the municipal council and cover all possibilities of municipal administration and competent authorities. Have you seen the texts you're protecting? I am telling you: this is the first step towards the police powers of the municipal administration. How are you going to replicate what I'm telling you? [[Reply.]] Yeah, it's not written down that they can arrest, arrest, interrogate, but that's step one. Why? Because the Ministry of Interior is not doing well. The mayor of the municipality, the municipal council in dialogue with the competent authorities can make prescriptions, submit signals, demand. We will now relieve the Ministry of Interior and the citizens who are dissatisfied with the lack of public order not to be angry with Minister Bachvarova. Do you take responsibility for not dealing with the tasks of the Ministry of Interior and Minister Bachvarova because this is a responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens? This proposal is an element of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u165	Have you heard the proposals of the committees that have examined the Bill?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u166	I heard them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u167	You heard them! I'm under the impression you haven't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will absolutely not enter into the debate, which was led by previous speakers for the simple reason that two completely different platforms are mixed. The functions and duties of the Ministry of Interior, and the functions, duties and responsibilities of the municipalities in ensuring public order. These are two completely different things, and if we comment on them through a common prism, this means that one of us is taking responsibility with the vote or not voting about whether the Ministry is dealing with these problems, but, on the other hand, one of us is taking responsibility for whether the Ministry is actually succeeding or failing. I believe that the main problem of internal security in Bulgaria in the last few months and years is precisely domestic crime. Let me point out a few major problems that he is facing, including the Ministry. First of all, the serious failure that currently exists in the Ministry of Interior. Let me remind you that with the reported reforms and proposals made over the past year and a half, the composition of the Ministry of Interior is under strong professional stress. The Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of the Interior is also talking about this statistic. In the context of intense professional stress, under the conditions of avalanche leaving staff for 2015, the last quarter had left as many employees as they had not left for the first quarter of 2015. In the context of the inability to provide maximum coverage by police officers in small towns, municipalities and villages, I would like to ask with whose populist purposes the negotiators raised the question whether or not the bill should be supported? Does someone have to lawyer up the Ministry or shouldn't they? Total populism! I believe that the parallel measures that we propose are ancillary measures which should in no way be taken away from the responsibilities, functions and duties of police officers, but rather to supplement this system and to ensure further public order where there is obviously a shortage of resources, which is the main resource of the Ministry of Interior. I call on you to discuss things in the specifics, to discuss things with perspective, as Mr. Lilkov suggested, and not enter into cheap populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u169	Mr. Yankov, I'd be surprised if you didn't replicate, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u170	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I understand the desire of colleagues from the ABB, which is evident from the statement that they are looking for mechanisms to please those Bulgarian citizens who are victims of crimes related to the abuse of property or their relatives, and they are very much like every second Bulgarian citizen. Her concern to ease the work of the Ministry of Interior, only it is not correct to talk about populism because what is being done with the proposal for a change in the Law is to conceal the inability of the institutions, of the Ministry of Interior, to use all the possibilities of the Law to deal with this scourge. Just two years ago, my fellow Member, there were some extracurricular assistants to the Ministry of Interior under the unemployment programme, you until recently had a deputy prime minister of your parliamentary group, who, if you were concerned, would have put this issue in the way in which to implement and assist the activities of the law enforcement authorities. Ask Mr. Tsvetanov if he will support what you propose. He is aware of the capabilities of the Ministry of Interior and is aware of how ineffective the work of the Ministry of Interior is at the moment and on the direction of dealing with domestic crime, even though he has defended the Minister of Interior today in a statement such is his position, he will have to defend the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u171	It is useful that you track Mr. Tsvetanov's appearances. Second line? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, it is your speech at the moment and your reply that brings me back to the idea that you are talking about populism. There is no way, you can understand, with a constructive statement that is based on arguments and motives of a bill, you can classify it as a bill that expects to get the approval or like, as you said, of a certain circle of people. In this case, it is not about a certain circle of people. This is about human destinies. Let me return you to statistics that there are small towns and municipalities and villages where a policeman covers three or four villages. All those people who live there, what do you think they expect us to do? They expect us to be flexible, to be maneuverable to the situation and to the problems of the day. This is not about the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior. In this case, we need to cover a maximum range of the service and ensure the public order of those places where it is not initially done in the last two or three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u173	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 554-01-62, submitted by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. I recall that the two committees to which the bill was allocated proposed to the plenary not to support this bill. They voted 106 MPs: 16 against 12, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. There is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs which will be presented to us by Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u174	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-54, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 April 2016. At its meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Mr. Alexander Stefanov. The bill was presented by the MP Emil Dimitrov, who pointed out that he proposed a change of art. 108 of the special part of the Penal Code, adding to the composition of the crime the expression "radical Islam" and adding that, at the same time, in a new paragraph 31 of art. 93 of the Code is defined as this term. As a reason for introducing the Bill, he pointed out the need to criminalise radical Islam, which is particularly aggressive and dangerous ideology. In view of the events in the Middle East, the immigrant communities in Western Europe and the existence of followers of the ideology radical Islam in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bill aims both to limit its influence and protect the Bulgarian Mohammedans from its propaganda and to refine the law's norm with modern reading of the most recent threats to society. The committee received opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Cassation, according to which for the proper definition of the notion of Radical Islam, a serious and thorough comparative legal study is needed in how the issue is resolved in other jurisdictions that have gained experience and knowledge in distinguishing ideologically from the religious content of the term. Mr. Alexander Stefanov expressed his opinion that radical Islam with its explicit forms is a threat to social unity in society and the national security of the country and the proposals should be supported and the same should be refined. People's representatives Chetin Kazak, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev took part in the discussion. Mr. Kazak expressed his opinion that the existing definition of art. 108 of the Penal Code is broad and comprehensive and pointed out that legal proceedings were initiated in the city. Pazardzhik, which shows that the current criminal composition covers the ideology of radical Islam. He expressed the need for an expert opinion in order to carefully distinguish between religion and ideology, between the postulates of religion and what is proposed by the Bill. Mr. Notev supported the aim of the importers and pointed out that there is a public need for such legislation. He noted that improperly proposed the creation of a criminal group in art. 93 of the general section of the Penal Code, where only legal definitions are contained. Point out that the narrow definition of a phenomenon, such as the Radical Islam, will lead to the exclusion of socially dangerous concepts which are not explicitly listed in the normal hypothesis. Mr. Lazarov pointed out that he would support the bill, but he joined Mr. Notev's opinion that the enforcement act should not be found in the common part of the code, and that enumeration is not the best approach to defining a concept. He expressed the need to fine-tune both in terms of the notion of Radical Islam and in terms of executive acts, which are limited only to the preaching of such ideology. Mr. Popov expressed the need for legislative changes in this area, but pointed out that the Bill should be fully revised, as a definition of radical Islam is sought, but ultimately it is about composite acts, not ideology. Mr. Mitev announced that he would support the Bill and agree with the comments and opinions of his colleagues, who qualified as timely and justified. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes..................................................................................... and 1 vote..................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. The bill has been allocated to another committee. This is the Commission on Religions and Human Rights, there is no report from this Commission. On behalf of the importers, the bill will be presented by Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u176	Madam President, honourable Members! The draft is related to a series of negative facts and phenomena in the Bulgarian society related to the preaching of radical Islam. The concrete facts that interest the Bulgarian society are from the last 3-4 years and are related to the trial in Pazardzhik, which brought to light facts which were known perhaps to the specialized services and to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, but not to the whole Bulgarian society. The fact is that not only in Bulgaria but throughout Europe the manifestations of radical Islam, that is, the propaganda of radical Islam, is becoming a propaganda of a new ideology. It is mistakenly considered that this is directed against one religion or another. The fact is that when religion is used for politics and used as ideology, problems are created that we observe. The timeline is clear. Over the past 15 years, the worldwide manifestations of radical Islam have not only been associated with agitation or external manifestations such as clothing or appearance, but are related to terrorist activity. Starting with the war in Iraq, which unlocked this problem worldwide, and ending with the last attacks in Brussels and Paris, before that again in Paris, before that other attacks in France, at the train station in Madrid, in London and many other events, it is evident to everyone that for nearly two decades another ideology has been planted in the European Union. A new ideology that is extremely dangerous, unlike communism or national socialism or fascism, which are still ideological doctrines, the ideology of radical Islam itself is aggressive and it tolerates neither opposition nor foreign opinion nor other thought. The manifestations of this ideology are linked to a series of attacks not only on the territory of the EU member states but also on the whole world. All secular normal societies in the world are struggling with these manifestations, by adopting extraordinary legislation here, I will not quote the extraordinary legislation of the United States of America, but there is no country in its territory that has felt the manifestations of radical Islam as an ideology, I stress, not as a religion, because we have to distinguish between religion and the ideology of radical Islam, which are two radically different things, that is, there is no such normal state that has not taken any precautionary measures to facilitate the fight against this new ideology. Ideology the world doesn't know so far. That is why we have tried to sum up the experience of other countries, by the way, the first country in the European Union to deal with this issue, is Britain after the subway attacks in London, to make a wording of the concept of Radical Islam. Why? Currently, people who preach this ideology are being judged according to the Criminal Code for anti-democratic or fascist activities. Ladies and gentlemen, radical Islam has nothing to do with anti-democratic statements of the variety: Radical Islam is a new ideology which aims to conquer the world through violence, not through conviction, not through propaganda, but through violence. I think that I do not need to explain or convince any of you in this House what is the violence that organisations like the Islamic State are exhibiting, such as..........Boko Haram.... and other organizations that impose the ideology of radical Islam worldwide, not only on the European continent, not only in the Middle East and Africa, but also in a continent like Asia. The only continent that has been spared such action so far is Latin America. Our logic as importers from the Patriotic Front is not to wait for all that has fallen on the overly well-meaning countries of the European Union towards such ideologies, which for years, I would say, have suffered for decades the manifestations of radical Islam and the preachers of radical Islam in their territory, in the name of crookedly understood universal or pan-European values, but have finally received the payment of their tolerance in the form of attacks, in the form of killed people shot. Or, literally, the last case of that day in France, which is the most affected, the most affected by such manifestations, I am talking about the member states of the European Union, we are trying to determine the concept of Radical Islam and criminalise it through the Penal Code so that the judicial authorities in Bulgaria can have the basis on which to fight more effectively, and so the whole Bulgarian society, with these events. The fact is that Bulgaria is on the border between the Christian and the Islamic world. The fact is that the latter, I would say, for more than 20 years on the territory of Bulgaria are trying to try different in the form of civil organisations, en-ji-ota and so on organizations that are financed by certain oil monarchies, which this is what they promote. The facts we also observe in the Pazardzhik case show that this cannot be called a sequestered process. This network covers people in different regions, the pursuit of this propaganda is to Islamize, but to Islamize them not in the sense of making them religious Muslims, but to ideologize them as Muslims the Gypsy communities in Bulgaria, and this is done, notice, unlike the propagandists of the other religions who promote with speech or with any aid, this is about direct funding. A community is being established in Bulgaria at the moment, thank God, small, which in perspective can create major problems of national security, internal security and order in the country. People who are ridiculed today for paying their wives or paying a family of 200 or 300 leva to put on burkas to speak such nonsense, their children tomorrow, born and raised in such an environment, will become a potential danger. We have no right to underestimate this problem. For this reason, colleagues from the Patriotic Front and I have prepared texts in the Penal Code that we are trying to regulate the notion of Radical Islam. I am not saying that this is the best that the Bulgarian Parliament can do. I'm saying it's our initiative that deserves to be supported. I've read the minutes from the Legal Committee very carefully. Colleagues of lawyers have reasonable remarks regarding the purely legal part of this matter, but in principle and in fact this is correct to be supported at first reading in order to be able between first and second reading these legal considerations, which both the colleague from Ataka Notev, and the colleague Lazarov from GERB expressed themselves as legal professionals, to be consistent. What are the lyrics? A new t. is created. In Article 31, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 93 with the following text: "Ideology Radical Islam is preached by one person when it, in words, acts or symbols, campaigns for some of the following ideas: for the creation of an Islamic state of Caliphate, for the imposition of the laws of Sharia over secular laws, for the imposition of religious principles and norms of conduct and norms characteristic of Islam or for the promotion of violence in the form of sacred war, Jihad, against non-Muslims. The same is true when recruiting followers or funds to support terrorist organisations whose ideology is based on Islam or agitating for the benefit of such organisations. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the following amendments and additions are made: in para. 1 prior to the word................................................................................................ The idea is to find the wording of this phenomenon of ideological phenomenon, I repeat. [[the President signals that time has run out]] through which certain external factors try not only to break through the territory of Bulgaria. They consider Bulgaria only as a link, a step towards entering Europe and we successfully as lawmakers to oppose it. Thank you, Madam President, for your patience. I'm running out of time. Thank you, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u177	The debate is open. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it to give a sign. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u178	Honourable Members, we are discussing an issue that has been clear to politicians, politicalists and philosophers of Europe since the middle of the 19th century. Here I take the liberty of quoting French thinker Auguste Renan. He says Islam cannot exist in the state as states in European civilization understand it. He speaks of radical Islam, of course, not of secular Muslims. Islam denies, replaces and replaces the state this in brackets wrote this thinker in 1897 in a series of lectures in the Sorbonne about what Islam is. Islam, unlike Christianity, does not promise the righteous Kingdom of heaven after death. He promises him the kingdom, the prey, here on earth. Islam is not a religion, and they say it became famous world-famous leaders of Jihada, not to quote now that fetva of Osama bin Laden, with which he wanted Al Andalus the Pirene Peninsula. Radical Islam says that where he once ruled a Muslim, Allah will bring him back there. Once the Muslim boot has stepped on one territory, it is interpreted as God's favor, this land remains his forever. He can always claim it. Radical Islam, by radical Islam, I mean Sharia, does not allow integration. Few people, especially those who earn their money with propaganda for integration, are unaware of this. The Sheriff forbids the right Muslim to integrate. And if you notice, pay attention, everything in the daily life of the radical Muslim is regulated so as to distinguish it, disintegrate it from the other infidels. The sheriff regulates every step of the daily life of the righteous Muslim, including what to eat, including when to bathe, including with which hand to eat, with which foot to enter the service rooms and with whom to go out. And that's a fact that few people realize. I mean, it's absolute nonfreedom. I'd like to remind you because I've been finding my own articles since 2002, when I was writing and exposing through an article by the Koran and the Hadis that gray creature called Ahmed Musa Ahmed. In 2002, he preached, of course, for decent payment, another similar ideology, that is, the same ideology under another name. It was called: the state is the caliphate of some Metin Kaplan, convicted in Germany and imprisoned by then secular Turkey. Notice the year 2002 and now we are 2016. Fourteen years the Bulgarian state cannot put one, with your permission, squirt, without education, simply because there is no law...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u179	No, I can't let you talk like that, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u180	Yeah, I'm sorry. There's no law to put him in jail. There's no subpoena. I fully support the importers, and specifically my colleague Karakachanov, who knows nothing about law, from the street one person to catch and he would protect every jihadist and Islamic terrorist if he had to be convicted under art. 108, because it is simple to prove that what he preaches is not fascism is not anti-democratic ideology. It is a system for the overall management of life and the world! According to the Hadis, Muhammad promised Muslims the whole earth to become a mosque, that is, a Muslim community. Therefore, I call on the MPs: let us help Bulgarian justice, give it an instrument to protect Bulgaria's national security and the security of the individual Bulgarian. Vote for this Law! Of course, there's a saying that says better is the enemy of good. Always something, even if it's very good, could get even better. Give your remarks, your corrections, and let's make this text perfect, but give it a way. Because there was little time left before Bulgaria was flooded by the carriers of this radical, dark, anti-human ideology. Thank you. [[Applause from the PF, single applause from the Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u181	Any lines to Mrs. Tasheva? I won't. Mr. Imamov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u182	Madam President, honourable Members! This bill attempts to separate religion from radical ideology. Unfortunately, however, it does not make it successful enough. I would like to say that this to some extent affects and insults every fifth citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, who is a Muslim and professes this religion. I think that the authors, despite trying to present their goal as necessary, I would say... as essential, underestimate the problem they raise. This is evidence from this point of view that religion is used for political purposes in the Law itself. Please don't underestimate this problem. We are, of course, against any radicalisation. But I'm tired of it, and I think it's a sacrilege for someone to stand on this high stage and convince me that my religion is radical, that my religion creates terrorists, people who hate, people who will destroy the country and the world even. Dear colleagues, I know the Christian religion very well, I would even say much better than some of those present than they do my and the sacred books of my religion. Please bear in mind that every word on the Bill you will say from this tribune will affect millions! It'll affect millions! Here I ask: why is this bill not aimed at radical religious ideologies at all? I ask the authors to answer me. In Bulgaria there are over 100 religious communities officially registered! Some of them are extremely radical, have even done more damage to Bulgarian society than Islam! Our Islam really is a traditional one that has nothing to do with these radical, extreme ideologies. Why? You know these religious communities, but they are not interested, because some colleagues have the desire and intention to maintain the anti-Islamic tone, to instill hatred, fear! Please note once again that nearly a million and a half of Bulgarian citizens profess Islam and they consider themselves good people, patriots. I don't think they're terrorists or terrorists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u183	Any lines to Mr. Imamov? Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u184	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Imamov, I say that I respect you, because I respect you, not from courteousness and protocol, this bill is aimed at real events worldwide, including on Bulgarian territory. On the contrary, it is not aimed at traditional Bulgarian Muslims. Apropo, we have more than 1000 members, traditional Bulgarian Muslim Muslims, ethnic Bulgarians. The bill is not aimed at religion! It is directed directly against the attempts of radicals in this religion to suppress and oppose normal, hardworking Bulgarian Muslims against the other part of the Bulgarian society. He's targeting this group of people. You asked a very clear question: why is it not aimed at other similar religions, and I will answer you. First, if you follow the practice in the last 15 years, you will see that I personally and my colleagues have repeatedly posed the question of some sects which, in less radical but otherwise, sow division in one or another religious denomination. That is, this is not a precedent in our conduct and policy. However, the truth is that at the moment we do not see radical Buddhists, radical Hindus, or radical people who preach intolerance, death and commit acts of terrorism. We have this in an ideology. I will not give a geopolitical lecture on who is responsible for who unlocked the door of such radicals worldwide, this is another topic, but it is a fact that, on behalf of all Muslims, a small group of radicals kill, destroy, commit violence. They must be stopped. The law, understand me, Mr. Imamov, is not aimed at religion Islam. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Believe me, if in the future Christians, Buddhists or Hindus preach hatred, intolerance, or violence to others, I will be the first to oppose.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u185	Second line, Mr. Honest Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u186	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Imamov, I am making a reply to you because I disagree with the approach that you and your party generally demonstrate with a second bill. Last week, we commented on something in a similar direction. It takes a position that is actually trying to rebuild the shield of misunderstood religious tolerance on phenomena that have nothing to do with religion. If you do not want to understand it, of course, you have the right not to want to understand it, however, it is hardly a problem for any analyst to see the difference between an ideology and a religious community. Obviously, ideology wants to change the political status quo here and now. She uses, on the one hand, political, on the other hand, violent means. We have the blatant example not only of the bombings in Paris, in Brussels, not to forget the two towers, the mass sacrifice of over 3,000 people. We have a situation in which such a community rules a territory, building a pseudostate where it performs a terrifying ethnic cleansing based precisely on this ideology. Some well-known Islamic theologians declare that this has nothing to do with Islam in general as conduct, such as ideology, as vision. They draw specific texts, they are parasited on them, they are interpreted to be clothed with the garment of religion, but it is not a religion. The DPS can, of course, continue trying to present itself as the two-faced Janus on one side, we are with the liberal facade, and on the other, we need to parasitize on the support of increasingly radicalizing, unfortunately, layers in the Muslim community. However, if it is a politically responsible formation, it will do what it has to do. It will support this text and if there is a desire to contribute to its improvement, it will do so between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u187	Third line "Valery Simeonov or Milen Mihov, understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u188	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear representatives of the DPS, the bill is clear, precise, explicit.. It makes sense to protect against the entry of radical Islam. I think that in discussing it is extremely inappropriate behavior, which Mr. Imamov demonstrated from this tribune. He threw direct accusations that this Bill almost used religion for some political purpose or its focus was against religion, in service of certain political objectives. There's no such thing. In this hall and in Bulgaria, religion is used for political purposes only by representatives of radical Islam and its derivatives. You have a very short memory. Like you forgot who's dragging imams to election rallies and events?! Who drags religious persons to us or DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u189	The verb...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u190	Who drives cows during election events? Wasn't your Ahmed Bashev? Who makes continuous demonstrations of religious and religious devotion through weekly mass beds in the center of Sofia, with your consent and approval, in front of the empty mosque. Aren't they your people again? They're your people again! I don't know what insolence you have to come out here and talk about serving political goals for a very clean text in this Bill? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Excuse me, but was the mosque in Pazardzhik not recognized and approved by the Chief Mufti? Or did it not know that propaganda was being carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u191	Time's up, Mr. Simeonov. You may take a statement. A hole, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u192	Dear Mr. Karakachanov and other colleagues! The movement for rights and freedoms has repeatedly stated that we are against all forms of violence, against all forms of terrorism, radicalism that kill lives, prevent people from developing democraticly and living a normal life. We've said it many times. So I'm going to jump over those lines that have nothing to do with content, and are born to the desire to create hatred and to use hate language for which way from this platform in parliament. Without ideology, there is no religion, dear Mr. Karakachanov. It will be difficult to separate religion from ideology because most people will not understand you and will accept it as an attempt to be humiliated in some way for their religion. Here I repeat: we will support you for all forms of violence and radicalism. Include and expand your topic as regards radical religious ideologies in Bulgaria. That's the right approach.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u193	Mr. Stanilov has the floor, after him Mr. Milen Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u194	Mr. Chairman, please extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u195	Which automatically increases the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u196	Yeah. Quite briefly, another assessment. Before I speak it, I would like to say that neither I nor my colleagues have used any language of hatred but we have spoken the truth. A language of hatred is spoken only by fellow Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which to me is completely inexplicable, or is provocation, but let them decide. Secondly, it is very difficult to distinguish between ordinary and radical Islam at certain times because Mr. Taip Recep Erdogan said publicly from the tribune that Islam is one and there is no different Islam. But that's not true! The truth is that the Bulgarian Turkish diaspora does not profess such Islam, but this can change in certain policies. So when he removed Islam from the rule of the Republic of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was right, but today everyone has forgotten it. This one first. The second few sentences are as follows. First of all, it's a geocultural collision, and that's undeniable, and we're on top of the blade. Secondly, it is a continuation of the Bulgarian national revolution, which I have talked about many times from this tribune, so I will not continue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u197	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I feel obliged to take a replica of the speaker because the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not a political party that speaks the language of hate. And in order to bring the debate back into its scope, I would like to say that during a meeting of the Commission and the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, and the Supreme Court of Cassation have sent forward opinions which explicitly state that there is no comparative legal analysis showing how religion and ideology can be separated. So for me so far, the debate has been entirely based on politics and is not at the heart of criminally applied science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u199	Second line? I won't. The hole is a prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u200	If a phenomenon cannot fit within the law, it does not mean that the phenomenon does not exist, that is, it is not. We can't close our eyes on him, he's standing in front of us. That's why we're not talking about law and law, and it can't be an assessment of our whole lives, of the whole universe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u201	The word for speech is Mr. Milen Mihov, after him Mr. Siderov, after him Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov. [[Noise and lines.]] And then we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to be brief. The bill clearly treats radical Islam as ideology and I do not understand the thesis that no distinction can be made between religion and ideology. Religion primarily treats man's relations with God and undoubtedly religious beliefs are the ultimate value of Bulgarian society not only today, but also far in time. Ideology is a public, economic and political programme for reforming society in general. There is a connection between religions and ideologies. There is also a connection between ideologies and various social, economic or scientific theories. Racial theory itself does not produce fascism, but fascism exploits this theory, creating racial ideology. I give this example to clearly distinguish religion between the ideology of radical Islam, which uses a religion to construct a program to change the world, the whole world. And that this ideology is aimed at the Bulgarian Muslims is so obvious that it is necessary to bring only one example that in Burgas, in the attack, the victims were both our guests from Israel and our representatives, Bulgarians, of Bulgarian Islam. This attack generally illustrates the threat to Bulgarian Muslims by radical Islam as an ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u203	Any lines to Mr. Mihov? I won't. The word is Mr. Volen Siderov. [[Noise and lines. People's representative Aliosman Imamov wants the floor for a line.]] A line? Sorry, Mr. Siderov. Mr. Imamov has a line. I didn't see it, even though it was in the front row. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u204	Mr. Mihov, you're transferring the debate to another plane. It is too interesting, but I repeat, religion without ideology is a hollow social phenomenon. There is no religion without ideology. Otherwise, religion itself becomes something that primitive people who did not think were not at that level of their spiritual and ideological development. What about the ideology of people - dozens, hundreds in the world, not only in Bulgaria, who kill other people by religious beliefs? Hundreds who have found their unhappy fate precisely as a result of the existence of these non-Islamic religious and radical ideologies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u205	Second line, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u206	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, my reply is this: with the Bill you are proposing, you want to amend art. 108, as before the word................................................................................................ Now I want to read to you what art. 108, to make it clear to other colleagues what we are doing: Art. 108. Whoever preaches a fascist or any other anti-democratic ideology, or forcibly changes to the public and state order established by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, is punished by imprisonment up to three years or with a fine of up to 5 thousand. lv. If you insist specifically on adding to Radical Islam, does this mean that you, by radical Islam, do not mean that it is an anti-democratic ideology, because the terminology of the anti-economic ideology also includes what you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u207	Third line? A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u208	Madam President, my esteemed Mr. Imamov, I would like to stress that there is no note of irony in this address and it is completely sincere. I cannot agree with you that religion cannot exist without ideology. Religion is a concept that includes different understandings of the world's concept, of the creation of the world, of man, of God and so on. In this sense, I would say again: ideology is a programme for the change of the world. It is constructed on the basis of various philosophical, economic and social theories. It can be logical, it can be a conglomerate and so on and so forth. I can't agree with you on that. And as for the replica, the very concept of fascism is too limited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u209	Anti-democratic ideology.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u210	Wait, wait, wait! Fascism is a social political movement in Italy and it differs significantly from national socialism, but it has accepted civility that, under the term "fascism" all right-wing, totalitarian and, in a certain sense, authoritarian public, political movements have done such damage to Europe and the world in the 20th century. [[Reply from the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]] In this sense, the addition of Radical Islam after the word "fassism" acquired its completion of the text, because there you clearly quoted it: "And other anti-democratic currents."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u211	Is it included in that term?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u212	Of course radical Islam is anti-democratic, it's out of doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u213	In such a case, add
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u214	It and fascism is anti-democratic.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u215	It's fascism, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u216	They are in proportion: part to whole. The word for speech is Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I suggest that we do not try to define here concepts for which decades, centuries have argued different schools of religious, ideological, philosophical and so on. Many times, when it comes to something about history, as importers on some bill, we have received the remark that Parliament cannot solve historical issues. And I would now say: let Parliament not solve religious issues, because this is a very difficult and complex subject matter. The worst would be if the Bulgarian Parliament became a place to face religious views. I think that's unnecessary. I'm telling you this as a man who studied religion, and I don't think the Christianity-Islam conflict should be here or anything like that. We are politicians after all, solving practical tasks. At the moment, there is a proposal put in place that must impose sanctions on people who are terrorists. Let's not define what they're confessing, they're terrorists, they want violence, they want to kill people, they kill people. Such a type of person who preaches such a thing should be sanctioned. By the way, there was a statement by Mr. Imamov, which I approve that there are others, sects we call, confessions or denominations that also preach anti-social practices. They must also be inserted into this sanction, but this is a question between first and second readings. And now I call first because for the other political parties it is clear that they support it, join it and support this proposal to show that they are not some foreign party of Bulgaria, confess anything other than common values, which they constantly highlight and claim, and thus prove it. A reverse vote would be proof of the opposite. So let's calm things down as an anti-religious clash, we will not solve it from this tribune, but we will adopt a sanction that, between first and second reading, can be edited, developed, but it is necessary, as this terrorism is radical, is a fact in Europe and in the world and it is spoken and commented very much. We have to take some precautions. Support this proposal, and we will further develop other socially dangerous sects and denominations that really exist in Bulgaria and which we are not talking about right now, and we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u218	Replices to Mr. Siderov? First line, Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u219	Thank you. I agree with Mr. Siderov's statement that it should not be a tribune in which two religions should be confronted, but we start with the great one. After the authorities that will apply the Law, which will monitor its implementation, in this case, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, which applies general supervision of legality, are reserved in the way that the Law is being proposed, in the way in which it is read and signed the wordings, after they are reserved, I ask: on this basis, the body that will apply the Law, after it does not stand by the Law, when its expertise is not in the direction of supporting it, after the authorities themselves the VKP and the VKS say that we need a thorough, comparative legal examination and that in countries that have experience with the application of such a kind of criminal activity, what will we give in the hands of the AKP, what will we give in the hands of prosecutors, what indictive acts will they draw up, how they will protect them in court? And then we put the court itself in a very delicate position. In this sense, the people who put politics in this stands are practically importers. And the second argument, why do we not have an opinion of the guild? Why is not the position of the General Mufti, of the Department of Religion? And Ajeba, why wasn't there a round table? These are the methods in which contemporary parliamentaryism should and should work, especially at such delicate moments that we are currently in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u220	Second line? I won't. Mr. Siderov, the back? You won't use it. And there was Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u221	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Another lousy amendment to such an important Law. When we talk about Islam and not about another religion, some fellow Members compete with such arguments to invent that I wonder why they have come to the National Assembly. I'll give an example of what they're offering. When funds or followers are raised to support a terrorist organisation whose ideology is based on Islam, it is said to be radical Islam. Does this mean, dear colleagues, that when there are organisations supporting themselves or in their favour, they are raising funds but belonging to another religion, it is not anti-democratic? That's what Professor was talking about. Imamov, when he said that we should approach carefully and put under a common denominator not Islam, but the attitude towards different religions. I will remind you, gentlemen of the Patriotic Front, when Bulgaria becomes a member of the European Union, we automatically adopt certain laws, the so-called AKIs. There is a definition of radical Islam. I'd like you to meet him very carefully. At the time, 1945 in 1946 a law was passed in Bulgaria that prohibits a certain community from wearing certain clothes and being in the executive power. In the end, those who propose this law are punished by the state court with murder. Be careful what laws you propose, what amendments so as not to deliberately provoke radical Islam in Bulgaria. And when we mention the victims of the terrorist attacks in Bulgaria, I wonder why none of you attended the funeral of this Bulgarian Muslim citizen in the Rhodopes? But on the parliamentary stand, we are all very good when we say, "These are the bad guys, and we are the good guys." Before I graduated, colleagues, it was mentioned here that fascism is equal to radical Islam because they are anti-democratic. Namely, the Council of Europe, with a document, says that there are currently two fascist organizations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Patriotic Front, VMRO and NFSB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u222	I will ask you without the definitions and qualifications of political formations and their ideology.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u223	Dear sane MPs from the system democratic, do not support this lousy bill, this amendment to this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u224	First line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u225	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, don't be nervous. It is good not to use religion for political purposes, but you are trying to do so. I don't claim to be a good lawyer. I'm not a lawyer, but I say I'm a good historian. Please don't teach me historical things, because you don't have the strength here. It's not very well-educated for a man like you who's not a lawyer either. The amendment isn't crappy. The amendment aims to prevent such actions that we observe around the world. Do not use speculation and frank lies when you claim that the Council of Europe qualified IMRO and NFSB as fascist organizations. There's no such document. This was repeated by one of your former presidents, apropo, the same one who, when the case against radical Islam began in Pazardzhik, went out and defended the defendants who preached cutting heads, killing infidels and so on. You remember him, I will not mention his name, although he cannot take advantage of his right to a personal explanation because he does not come to the Bulgarian Parliament. The same one who seems to serve another ideology. So let us not throw political accusations at each other when it comes to the security of Bulgaria. I want to finally hear the DPS not teach us what we should not do, but take one time and come up with a position to protect the security of the whole Bulgarian people, without unlike its ethnic or religious affiliation. That's what I'd like to hear. Because you cast a spell, and we're fascists. What does "systemic" mean?! For 20 and underage years of presence of DPS as a systemic party in parliament, the Bulgarian people do not want to see you anymore! Do not use the system and do not use this is not a criterion. Either you do something good for the country or you don't do anything good. Do not use religion for political propaganda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u226	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u227	For the funeral. We did not go to the funeral of this Bulgarian Muslim so that we would not make political propaganda from this funeral, from this misfortune to man.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u228	Second line: Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u229	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Colleague, the fact is that the vast majority of the world's attacks are being carried out by radical Islam groups. Colleagues, the most victims of these attacks and the most victims are Muslims. Is that a fact?! These are the ones who profess classical Islam. Look at the victims around the world that are being given. Most of all, Muslims are killed in these attacks. I will also support Mr. Karakachanov. Please, enough with the mantras, what he was, what he was. Colleagues, I am the best man of a Turkish family from the village of Dolni Voden. I'm the best man of a Turkish family and they're good Muslims. There's nothing wrong with that. We're not declaring ourselves against them at all. But we do not want to allow what is happening in the world with the bombings of these radical Islamists, much of which are Wahabi Islam. Since you are Muslim, you know very well what Wahabi Islam means. That's what speech is for, colleagues, not for anything else!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u230	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, it is natural that I have no intention of arguing on historical topics, but when I talk to facts, and that some colleagues do not like it, it is a separate matter. If you don't have good lawyers, come on in, we'll give you good brains. [[Laughter in PF.]] We have nice, good lawyers who know how to make laws. Colleagues, I am going to call you back on this rotten amendment in this Law, because we are not looking for lost election rates! Thank you. [[Relations in PF.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u232	Mr. Korman Ismailov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In me, this text raises several questions that I do not have an answer to. I'd ask the importers if they could give it up. I think they get confused, they mix principles in general definition of certain terms. For example, it is called Radical Islam. There may be radical conservatism, radical social democracy, radical communism, radical Judaism, radical Christianity. Can you define to me what the ideology in Radical Christianity means in two sentences, as you have done here? Or should you define the ideology of radical Judaism? Surely Judaism has its own radical expressions. What does it mean radically? It means root, base, foundation, some extreme in something. I'm asking scientifically, procedurally, in principle, to explain to me so that I can make sense of these things. It is the impression that a small group of people in this National Assembly are trying to give in one sentence such a serious and severe definition of what is radical Islam or the ideology of radical Islam. It's hard for me to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u234	Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u235	Mr. Ismailov, unfortunately, the importers cannot give you an accurate and logical answer to the question. There is no way to do that because, as the debate has shown, this is a proposal from parliamentarians. It is in a good idea, we are all in a position that one must be separated from the other, but the content of the idea is not fulfilled in a way that looks like good parliamentarians. I said just now, and I'm going to repeat to you: there is no study among the scientific community, the spiritual scientific community that defines ideology. There is also no opinion taken by the state authorities to the Council of Ministers, which implement and follow the law. There is no request from the parliamentarians gentlemen and the High Islamic Institute, let's say, or the Chief Mufti. They met with several habilitated teachers, perhaps in another religion, and did not consider it necessary to meet leading clergymen and leading teachers. For them it may be insulting to paraphrase an old thought that they may speak German only to their horses. It may be beneath them to sit down and talk about theological matters with representatives of the spiritual community. So they can't give you that answer. [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u236	Second line? A hole, Mr. Ismailov? You won't use it. There are no other eligible MPs. The debate is closed. Mr. Veselinov's procedure. [[Replications. People's representative Ferihan Ahmedova wants the floor for procedure.]] Before Mr. Ismailov's speech, Iskren Veselinov wanted a procedure, but I thought it was for an extension. You go first, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u237	Madam President, my procedure is to extend the parliamentary time until the vote on this bill is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u238	A reverse opinion? You're welcome, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u239	Madam President, since the bill we are looking at is extremely important for the Bulgarian society, I propose a name check. [[Sighs and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u240	You are doing a roll call check procedure with a view to an upcoming vote, is not a reverse opinion. The lists. [[(Radio.) Replices.)]] Colleagues, this is not a reverse opinion. Please calm down. There's been a procedural request. I gave an opportunity for a reverse opinion, instead a second procedural request was received, which relates to a request for a roll call in connection with an upcoming vote. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- is absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski- absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ilian Sashov Todorov- absent Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- absent Mehmet Umer Ataman is absent. Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- absent Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin is missing Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stefan Georgiev Kenov- here Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev- absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov- here Hristo Grudev Grudev here. Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov- absent In addition they entered the hall after calling in alphabetical order: Delyan Dobrev, Atanas Atanasov, Nastimir Ananiev, Borislav Velikoev. One hundred thirty-one plus four, we have a jurisdiction. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend the plenary session until the end of this point. [[Loud noise and lines.]] There's no way this meeting's gonna end with us in voting mode. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] I'll give you a chance to, of course. Vote 116 MPs: 98 against 16, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u241	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You have just violated the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, by allowing a vote to extend the time at 14:13 pm. An extension must be made before 2:00 pm. It was indeed requested before 2:00 pm, but we were not in a voting procedure and you know this very well. [[Noise and lines.]] The roll call is in connection with an upcoming vote, not part of the voting procedure. So cancel this vote and follow the Rules, Madam President, or give in to one of the alternates. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u242	Dear Mr Hamid, you are right that the vote took place after 2 pm, which is the time determined by our Rules for the end of plenary. Shortly before 2:00 a.m. your parliamentary group received a request for a name check that is always connected and goes inseparably with the vote itself, as there is no way to request a check if there is no vote. You requested the inspection, Mr. Hamid. [[Applause from GERB.]] If you hadn't requested the inspection, the procedure would have ended before 2:00. [[A line from the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. DPS lines.]] The way you're holding Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u243	Madam President, I'll be perfectly accurate. There are no such terms in the Rules as immediately. If you find me such a word in that part of the Rules that treats these questions, please tell me, I will apologize. Art. 45. (1) Regular plenary sessions of the National Assembly shall be held on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from 9.00 to 14.00. There is no decision of the National Assembly at the regular time. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u244	Dear Mr. Imamov, if I agree with your logic, this means that during the roll call check precisely at 2:00 due to the astronomically expired time for continuing the plenary session, I had to terminate the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u245	This is not about making a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u246	In addition, there is always a spirit of the law in the legal texts except for a letter. You requested the roll call check in view of the upcoming vote. This vote was held and the will of a majority in plenary ruled on the procedural proposal made. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I gave you an opportunity before that for a reverse opinion. No one in your group made a reverse opinion of Mr. Iskren Veselinov's procedure for extending plenary time. Are there any other MPs who wish to participate in the debate? No. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-54, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. We vote. Vote 119 MPs: 106, against 3, abstention 10. [[Applause from PF.]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u247	Procedure. [[Noise and lines. Reference between the President Tsetska Tsacheva and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-23.u248	Colleagues, Mr. Kirilov wants a procedure to propose an increase in the deadline for proposals of the MPs between the first and second votes. That would probably calm the passions, but then I'd be in violation, as we've only extended the time to debate and acceptance of this point. This procedure will be done in the next plenary session, Mr. Kirilov. It is important to know that the deadline has a proposal and an idea to be as extended as possible. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 24 June 2016 on Friday 9:00. First will answer the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev and a question from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. One clarification: it is possible that at the beginning of the plenary session at 9.00 the Prime Minister will be late, but will, anyway, participate in tomorrow's parliamentary control session. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Anastasov; Atanas Merdjanov; Atanas Merdjanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Yavor Haytov. 3. Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer eight questions from the MPs Philip Popov; Dimitar Delchev; Ivan Stankov [[two questions]] ; Petar Hristov Petrov; Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev [[two questions]] . 4. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer 8 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] ; Velizar Enchev [[three questions]] ; Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] ; and Georgi Kuchukov and Miho Mihov on one question from the People's Republic of Georgi Kuchukov. 5. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer seven questions from MPs Durhan Mustafa; Vasil Antonov [[three questions]] ; Vili Lilkov; Dimitar Delchev; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and one question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Martin Dimitrov. 6. Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer 3 questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] ; and Peter Hristov Petrov and two questions from the MP Willy Lilkov. 7. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer six questions from MPs Vili Lilkov [[two questions]] ; Velizar Enchev; Martin Dimitrov; Rumen Gechev; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski. 8. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Velizar Enchev; and Krasimir Yankov a common question, and a question from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov. 9. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer ten questions from MPs Yavor Haytov [[two questions]] ; Rumen Gechev; Stanislav Stanilov; Nikola Hadzhiyski; Georgi Kovachev; Vili Lilkov; Rumen Gechev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Georgi Tarnovalyski and a question from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev. 10. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev; Dimitar Delchev; and Yavor Haytov. 11. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer two questions from the MPs Durhan Mustafa; and Martin Dimitrov. 12. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer 3 questions from the MPs Miho Mihov; Yavor Haytov; and Velizar Enchev and a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov. 13. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev; Gunaj Heusmen; and Stanislav Stanilov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with written answer from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; and Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Ivan Stankov; and Kristian Vigenin; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to two questions with a written answer from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a request from the National Representative Radan Kanev to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov; - two questions from the National Representative Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; and to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov; - a question from the MP Petar Kadiev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - two questions from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov; and to the Minister of Defence Nikolai Nenchev; - a question from the MP Slavcho Atanasov - to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the National Representative Georgi Nedev to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva and Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. For health reasons, Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control session. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. A meeting dedicated entirely to parliamentary control. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
