ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. My fellow Members, in accordance with our decision, we are holding an extraordinary plenary session today with a single item on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 29 June 2016. The second vote report will introduce us to the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u2	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u3	There's a procedure. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! From the Bulgarian Socialist Party we want a new registration because my board and two other panels made registration without touching them. [[(Strong noise and shouting from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u5	Mr. Zablyanov, I expected you to say that there are colleagues who are not registered, as there are enough MPs visible from the presence in the Chamber. The first registration is with a view to checking a quorum on whether we can start work. From now on, the quorum for specific votes naturally will be different.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u6	I don't doubt everything you say. The only thing I care about is whether the system we're voting with is operational.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u7	Don't worry, it's fully operational.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u8	...as to provide you with three more witnesses from the parliamentary group, who have had their panels lit up. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u9	You said two!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u10	If you insist that the system is operational and you guarantee it, let us register once again. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u11	Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please before the Report, a procedure for admission for Mrs. Petya Tyankova, Deputy Minister of Justice, and Mrs. Filipova, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u13	We are voting on the procedural proposal, fellow Members. Vote 155 MPs: 144 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u14	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 602-01-34, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...). The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 133, none, abstention 5. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u16	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the words "International projects" the word "projects" shall be added and the word "inclusive" shall be deleted. 2. A t is created. 11: "11." is a person against whom a conflict of interest has been established with a decision entered into force less than one year before the election.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 1 edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. They voted 144 MPs: for 136, they won't mind, they abstentioned 8. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u18	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 4 shall be added after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. They voted 142 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 8. Paragraph 2 established on a proposal from the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u20	Paragraph 2 on the report. Proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission also does not support the proposal. Mr. Chairman, allow me, since the two proposals are absolutely identical, to read only one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u21	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u22	I read a proposal by Emil Dimitrov and a proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission: ..................................................... Article 28 is amended as 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Within one month of the expiry of the term of office, an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be appointed to a position of one degree higher than that held before the election, or at his request shall be reimbursed to the post held before the election, while the time during which he was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be respected for internship within the meaning of art. 164 para. 1-7. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Within one month of the early termination of the term of office on the basis of art. 130, para. 8, p. 1 of the Constitution, the elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be reimbursed to the post held prior to the election, while the time during which he was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be regarded as an internship under art. 164, para. 1-7. As I said, the Commission does not support this proposal by the MP Emil Dimitrov, as well as the identical proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u23	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are.. People's representative Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will try to explain what our proposal is and what it is aimed at. First, to explain that the total number of members of the Supreme Judicial Council is 25. One dead, Mr. Sitnilski, 24 to go. Of them, the three big ones, Mr. Panov, Mr. Kolev and Mr. Tsatsarov, do not fit the numbers. Twenty-one left. Five of them are senior magistrates who are not subject to attestations. In the later texts, we will mention this separately, the testimonial does not apply to them. They are: Mr. Kozharev "Deputy Prosecutor General," Rumen Georgiev "Deputy Director of NSS, Svetla Petkova" at the age of retirement, but she is also a senior magistrate, Galina Karagozova "Julya Kovacheva," and will take up their previous positions. They've gone to the Supreme Judicial Council, they've passed their term, and they're going back to their previous posts and they're not going to be tested because they don't have to be tested. Of the other people, three are former lawyers. Two of them were inspectors. For explainable reasons, we cannot return them to the position of the Inspectors and they are leaving the system. One of them was an MP. I hope none of you feels that once you have been a member of the SJC, you will return a member of the SJC! That's not gonna happen! Therefore, the changes I propose do not apply to all these people. There are 13 people left with the following hypothesis: either they return to the place they were occupying or to a lower one. Usually, the place they were occupying is already occupied. Some of them were executive executives. Turns out, once he's been in office, we're punishing him with one post down. Why? Because the seats are taken and the whole system needs to be moved. And here is: as senior magistrates want to return to their old places, but not always able and occupy another position, the proposal is that these 13 people, which I said, when they return to their places of administration, are occupied by other people, can be placed in the lowest position in the upper instance. That's it! Some say it's a bonus. It's not! It would be a penalty if they were left in the same or lower positions. The system has worked for five years and there are assigned people there. Once those above have been found a way to be reassigned to a similar position in kind and rank, we are only talking about the 13 who, because of having participated in the Supreme Judicial Council, must be punished with one post below, to take into account that all the time they work in the Supreme Judicial Council, will then be below and in a lower position, will be dependent on further evaluation and so on. Therefore, the proposal is that these 13 people, because for the others I said no, they get their rights, these 13 being reassigned to the lowest position in the upper instance, because for these five years they could not be evaluated, missed the chance to appear at a competition. They don't even have the right to go to a contest like this because we forbid them to. I suggest that you accept this decision because it will also give justice to people who decide to take part in subsequent judicial councils to know that this will not lead to a penalty, to a stop to their careers, and in the end these 13 people are not to blame for the fact that when society, parliament, the guilds have raised them, they have not yet had the rank of senior magistrates in order not to be subject to an attestation. Let's not stop their career development. It applies not only to the current Supreme Judicial Council but also to the next elected Supreme Judicial Council. Let us not put people there who will know in advance that they will be doomed; who, if they are not high magistrates, know that they will be punished, but people who will work with responsibility and knowledge that their work will be appreciated and that they will then take up the lowest position in the upper instance. In those five years, they could even borrow a lot bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u26	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I suggest that we support the text of the importer supported by the Commission and not support the two proposals of Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Georgiev, who, as you have heard from the President of the Legal Commission, are absolutely identical. Such a unanimous notion, of course, suggests that they have a common genies or a common author. I would ask them here: who wrote you the proposals?! Listening to what has just been said that these proposals do not concern this one, they do not concern this one and that one, I get the impression that they are referring to a particular person who wrote them that is the only reasonable explanation! Colleagues, I suggest that we do not do what many representatives of the Magistrate Community during the discussions in the Legal Commission called the creation of a judicial nomenclature. The text, in the way proposed by the two colleagues, basically creates exactly this... without regard to what a member of the Supreme Judicial Council has done over the years, will be promoted by one degree after his term of office has ended. Colleagues of non-jurists here resonate with the question: what is going on with those members of the SJC who, at the time of the election, were, for example, a judge of the Supreme Court or who worked at the Supreme Cassational or Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office? How can we raise them, and to what extent?! The text is at least thoughtless, I would call it dangerous, including at least it will create tensions among the Magistrate community, because it gives the impression of people who are hardly god-anointed, who go to a higher body of the judiciary with some of the highest salaries in the state and, to top it off, when their term ends, without a personal assessment of their activities, as the body is collective, are fired another degree higher! Colleagues, the text of the importer is balanced, reasonable. It is absolutely not true that if we accept the text of the importer supported by the Commission, these people would be reduced after their mandate in the SJC would end. Not at all! They shall return to the position to which they have been elected in the same way that MPs who have had positions in a state or municipal employment administration shall be reimbursed. The analogy is quite obvious. I therefore suggest that we do not support these two unreasonable proposals, not create a judicial nomenclature. I would remind even older lawyers from the existence of the old Law on the Supreme Judicial Council, when it functioned and in practice its members fulfilled their duties as magistrates, but did not receive additional remuneration and did their job again. Why is it now necessary to create all these privileges for the members of this body, including this one, to launch them one degree further, without it being clear whether they really deserved it and whether they meet the criteria?! If they're that good, let's go to a contest with all their other colleagues. Once they are so good and qualified, without problems they will win the competition and accordingly they will be able to occupy one degree higher in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? People's representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Slavov, the general genesis here is the justice and the possibility of career development of these people who are members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Because they, on the one hand, are practically supported by the entire guild, what a greater attestation than this, but at the same time their career development stops because while they are members of the Supreme Judicial Council their colleagues, who are not, have the opportunity for professional growth. They shall return to the old post held before becoming members of the Supreme Judicial Council. Why should such an opportunity be taken away from them, such a right? Once again, when I repeat that they are supported, raised by the entire guild, that is, they are sufficiently well represented in the guild, have their ethics, have their morals, have their professional qualities to occupy the position of member of the Supreme Judicial Council. You're talking about creating a nomenclature. If this proposal is not accepted, the opposite will be the case, then a nomenclature will be created because those who are able, knowing, those who want to have career development in the judiciary will simply not want to become members of the Supreme Judicial Council because they are stopped by career development. They go there for a few years and then what? The same people must appear before committees which eventually they have submitted and participated in the committee for their attestation. You see, here is a circle of commitment that is not good for the development of the judiciary at all, including those professionals who are members of the Supreme Judicial Council. That is why we have made this proposal precisely in view of the fairness and the possibility of career development of each and every one of the participants in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u30	Dear Mr. Popov, you did not answer the basic question: who wrote you the proposal and for whom was it written? Who's it really about? That's gonna make sense anyway. I would point out to you that if you had more often come to the meetings of the Legal Commission when we commented on the Law on the Judiciary, you would probably have heard the arguments, including Mrs. Minister, that these people for their 15 years of legal internship required to become members of the Supreme Judicial Council have already been tested. So there is no problem with the attestation if we assume that para. 2 of the text of the importer does not like us and we will not support it. Although I, like the Commission, have put forward arguments, I do not see any problem with a member of a collective body being able to be assessed for his individual work. Here I even set an example with the National Assembly, in which, you know well, statistics are being conducted on submitted bills, on speeches made, on parliamentary issues and so on. In other words, it is clear which MP is involved in what during the term of office. There is no problem that members of a collective body should be evaluated individually. And you're not absolutely right that the members of the SJC are being suspended from career development. On the contrary, membership of the Supreme Judicial Council should primarily be a matter of prestige. This is an experience, it is a professional development for each of its members, but above all this must be a matter of honor, so I absolutely disagree here with you. And again, I tell you, your suggestions seem suspiciously to me that they were written for a particular member or members of the current Supreme Judicial Council. You should have written them that they were going to act from the next term, but you wrote them for this one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The People's Representative Chetin Kazak has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this text is clear proof of how the psychology of the small souls in the judiciary, possessed by the collegiate jealousy and jealousy, are passing texts through which they try to become vulnerable, to sanction those bright representatives of the judiciary who would be and will be elected members of the supreme governing body of the judiciary, called the Supreme Judicial Council. This text and the reluctance to understand it in its sense, in the sense of the proposal of the colleagues and the stubbornness with which importers are clinging and those who support them, to support the importer's proposal, which precisely aims to please the small souls in the judiciary, who are panicked by the fact that they themselves appear in a competition, to appear at the race before the entire guild, to see whether and how much they can rely on being elected as members of the Supreme Judicial Council, now precisely, possessed by spite, by envy to their colleagues, are trying to punish them, to make them understand by saying: 'Yes, for you it is a matter of honor and dignity to be members of the Supreme Judicial Council, but then be so good to go back to where you have gone without any opportunity of development. Go back to where you left off, even though your colleagues have grown up over the past five years. But you, regardless of the fact that you have received the trust not only of your colleagues in the respective district, district or appeals court, but of the entire judges' guild, or of the entire prosecutor's guild, you do not deserve to grow by at least one degree higher, just because you managed this system for five years, the entire system. My fellow Members, I call on you, at least here in the National Assembly, not to become hostages to such a narrow-minded attitude, not to become hostages to this malice, this collegiate envy, but to give what we deserve to people who, first of all, have had the valor, courage and sense of honor to appear at the race throughout the guild and gain the confidence of their colleagues, not only to represent them. It was almost a matter of honor that they were members of the Supreme Judicial Council. My fellow Member, this is also a responsibility, first of all, a responsibility to vote for five years, to make decisions that concern all your colleagues, the entire guild, the entire judiciary. It's not only a matter of honor, it's mostly responsibility. And because these people have given themselves this responsibility because they have received the trust of their colleagues, they deserve not as a bonus, but as a well-deserved recognition for what they have done, to have the opportunity to be appointed then one degree higher, because they have been deprived of the normal career path, being five years of members of the Supreme Judicial Council. And, honourable Members, because I do not have much time, I am making an alternative proposal if not to accept the proposal of colleagues Emil Dimitrov and Chavdar Georgiev, at least to cancel para. 2 by the importer, because this text is absolutely unclear who will then evaluate who will test these colleagues. He wrote by the plenum methodology of the Supreme Judicial Council. Okay, the methodology is clear, but who will then assess who will test these members of the Supreme Judicial Council? This question is unclear and only because of this alternative I propose para. 2 to be removed from the importer's text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are right, fellow Kazak, as far as asking the question: who will appreciate. But in my opinion, you missed the methodology itself, how this methodology will be formulated. It's a secret ballot, isn't it? Here, colleague Slavov said that they would be assessed almost on the principle on which the MPs are assessed. But the two things are absolutely incomparable. There's a clear vote here, spoken from this tribune, bills are being tabled. The powers of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council are very different from those of a Member of the National Assembly. That's why it's in question and the methodology itself. Notice, the evaluation becomes part of the magistrate's testimonial for the period before the inauguration as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council! It is obvious that this magistrate how and for whom I think he will work, so that his assessment can then be good, positive, so that he can grow a degree up, which with this text is taken away from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kazak? You won't take advantage. National Representative Martin Dimitrov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I had no intention of taking the floor under a bill that was highly specialized. I'll leave the debate to the lawyers. But this particular issue, which is principled and is an example of anti-reform, cannot be left without debate. I am worried about the silence of colleagues from GERB because we have already seen that BSP, part of the Patriotic Front and DPS are in the same position. They want to make an anti-reform together, which includes automatic promotion of members of the Supreme Judicial Council after their term of office expires. Unfortunately, over the years in this Chamber, I have seen that when the greatest political power remains silent on such a subject, it would mean that they would also support this anti-reform to happen, and this is Pandora's box. If this is adopted today, tomorrow someone will propose that someone who has been a Member of the National Assembly be automatically promoted after the end of the term. If one is possible, why not the other?! I would ask a bit of a joke: and who from the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation went to the Supreme Judicial Council, how will you promote him, colleagues? He may be the president of the Republic. I say it a little funny and I see that colleagues in the Chamber agree. They give a sign of consent that such things have crossed their minds, considering this proposal. Colleagues, I'd like to remind you of this. I remember very well how colleagues in this Chamber wanted to change the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. Now it goes to the other extreme of these people to be automatically promoted. Thank God, in the Commission, Minister of Justice Mrs. Zaharieva has taken the right, reasoned position. But I ask colleagues from GERB: colleagues, you have the most votes in this House, your votes are extremely important that this anti-reform be stopped. [[Replications from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov.]] That is why I am addressing you and my colleagues from the Reformation Block together to stop the anti-reform. We are here, and we will vote this way. Colleagues, I hope that such bad examples will be suspended by a large majority, to vote with conviction against them in this National Assembly. Finally, I would like to ask: how is it possible, tell me, colleagues, MP Emil Dimitrov and the group of MPs from the BSP to write the same proposal - word for word?! How does that work? The same thing, word for word! These are different people who have different ideas. How come they wrote the same proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u37	There's a difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u38	We believe that perhaps the source of inspiration is the same, perhaps their inspiration came from the same place. So, fellow Members, I appeal to you: on this subject, to support the Minister of Justice, her opinion that she has expressed in the Commission, and together to reject this attempt at anti-reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Mr. Kazak. [[Replicates from the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov to the National Representative Martin Dimitrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, when an economist starts speaking on organisational issues relating to the judiciary, it should be listened carefully, however, to hear the arguments that surprisingly coincide with the arguments of the lawyer Mr. Slavov before that. And I'm quite rightly asking myself the question: how do the arguments of a lawyer and an economist match? How come you come up with the same arguments here and you stand up for the importer's thesis?! It's very simple. I'm giving myself an explanation. They've coordinated this position in advance. I'm serious now. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Whether or not a reform is being carried out, it is usually time after that.... whether it was right or wrong. The direction in which you are trying to push this Law is exactly the direction of the anti-reform, because under the decent preposition that you want to write eyebrows and improve the judiciary, you risk throwing it into chaos, into disorganization and into anarchy. If this is how you continue to stand up for those who are subordinate, not to common sense, not to what is needed and due recognition to everyone, according to what he has given to the system, but to please the cowardice of the small souls who will never get the trust and participate in the management of this system... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The analogies you are doing are absolutely non-constant... has nothing to do with the National Assembly and the other spheres, especially the state administration. While this is about an authority which directly manages only the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov. The third line is the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I also think that you could have saved yourself this statement. It contributed nothing to the debate. I do not support the political ambition that sounded from the speech, as well as the labels. But I would like to assure you of the following: GERB will support the text of the importer and will vote against the proposal of colleague Dimitrov and colleague Chavdar Georgiev. In case your speech was intended for verification, you could have done it with colleague Petar Slavov. That's how we voted in the Legal Commission. I repeat, this is how we voted in the Legal Committee. This is our will, this is our political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The third line, Mr. Popov, is quitting. National Representative Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be brief. Mr. Dimitrov, when you're smart, it's forever. You're just not listening. Out of 25 members there are senior magistrates who are not subject to a testimonial. I listed them to you: the three big ones, Kojarev, Rumen Georgiev, the Director of the Investigation, Svetla Petkova, the pensioners Tenev - they will stay, they will not come back. It remains only for those who have not had the pleasure, the chance and the opportunity before being promoted to the SJC to be senior magistrates! All those who are high will not be raised. They will apply and will be in similar positions, some of them may be lower. This also applies to others, if they apply or wish, they cannot be free of their place and take less. We give the opportunity, if they are not tested, if they have lost these five years because they have exercised normal, useful activity, to take up one post above. On your sacral question: why my proposal is literally similar to that of the representative of the BSP... contact your colleague from the Reformation Bloc, his name is Petar Slavov, and ask him why after just a few texts there will be a proposal from me, from Peter Slavov and from Philip Popov. We've all come to the same conclusion. What does that mean? That Peter Slavov became a patriot or became a member of the BSP?! I don't think you should ask such simple questions. For another time, if Peter Slavov wants, he can withdraw from the proposals he has made with me and with BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A hole? Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u46	Dear colleagues, thank you for the constructive lines. I would only say this to Mr. Kirilov, who turned to me. I would say the following: there is one text of an importer, Mr. Kirilov, namely to have a mandatory check for belonging to Masonic and other similar lodges, which has not been supported by the Commission. This fact has led us to think whether good texts coming from the government will be supported in this case. And that makes us doubt this particular text. Otherwise I am glad that on the subject you have taken the right position and we will vote together not to have such unprincipled developments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote proposals: by the MP Emil Dimitrov, as well as by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs are identical. The Commission does not support them. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 30, against 44, abstention 52. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Chetin Kazak from the parliamentary tribune for the removal of para. 2 of § 2 by importer. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: 22, against 68, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 3 in its report. We are voting § 3 on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 108, against 14, abstention 2. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted. Please continue, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 19: "19." establish and maintain an electronic public register of all projects which are subject to the functioning of the judicial authorities implemented by the organizations under art. 217; 2. Previously on "T." 19 becomes ct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 with its corresponding content on a report. Please vote on § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 121 MPs: 120 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u50	A proposal from MP Chetin Kazak. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 3, p. (c) the prosecutors of appeal, the prosecutor of military appeal and the head of the special prosecutor's office of appeal; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u51	You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with its respective content, as well as the text of the importer for § 3 which, after support from the Commission, becomes § 6. We are voting on paragraphs 5 and 6 on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u52	According to § 4 of the report a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 4, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 in the new para. 3 of art. 44 is created. 3: "3." Information on the persons or organisations that have proposed to the Member of the National Representative the applicant for an inspector The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 4: 1. in t. 1 the word "six" is replaced by "three." 2. in t. 2, in the new content of para. 3 sentence one, the word "two" is replaced by "three" and the words "the conduct of the election before the committee under para. They shall be replaced by the expiry of their term of office. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the Chief Inspector and the Inspectors shall be added, not earlier than 6 months and the words shall be replaced by two months, and the words shall be replaced by two months. 2. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The proposals for candidates for the Chief Inspector and for inspectors shall be made by the Members of the National Assembly no later than two months before the election to the Committee under para. 2. The proposals shall be subject to: 1. detailed written reasons for the professional and moral qualities of candidates, including expressed opinions from professional, academic and other organisations; 2. documents for completed higher education in the specialty of Law and documents related to the requirements for incompatibility, documents for legal internship and career development of the applicant, as well as a document for verification under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army if the applicant was born before 16 July 1973. (4) The proposals shall be made after the written consent of each candidate is taken. 3. In para. 5 and 6 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u53	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 119 MPs: 14 against 16 abstentioned 89. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 10, against 55, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 119 MPs: 112 against 3, abstention 4. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u54	Paragraph 5 on the report. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8. Paragraph 6. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 2 the last sentence of para. Art. 2 of art. The decision of the National Assembly to dismiss the Chief Inspector or the inspectors on the basis of para. 48 is amended as follows: 1, t. 3, 5 and 7 shall be taken by a majority of two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 6: 1. in t. 1 out of b. the following points are inserted after point (a) 2. t. 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." the entry into force of a decision establishing a conflict of interest. 2. In para. 2 words. Two-sixs are replaced by one-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. The second sentence shall be created:........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1, t. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u55	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 9 against 21, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 17 against 43 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 9. Paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u56	Paragraph 7. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov: I offer the same permission with regard to the inspectors and the Chief Inspector art. 50 para. 1 and 2 of the proposals and adopted at first reading project to drop out and edit as above is proposed, similar to art. 28. ) (a.k.a. 1 and The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: the following point is added: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The current text becomes para. 1; 2. the creation of para. 2... I apologize, Mr. Chairman. 2 was withdrawn at the will of Mr. Georgiev and MPs, i.e. only that. 1 is not supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u57	Which you introduced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u58	The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 50 is amended as follows: Art. 50. (1) Upon expiry of the term of office or upon early termination of the term of office on the basis of art. 48, para. 1, t. 1 the chief inspector and the inspectors shall be reinstated to the post held prior to the election. (2) Within one month after the restoration of the post under para. 1 the chief inspector and the inspectors with expired or early termination of their term of office shall be evaluated by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council on a methodology adopted by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The assessment becomes part of the attestation as a magistrate for the period before their inauguration as Chief Inspector and Inspector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u59	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Emil Dimitrov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 21, Against 15, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. Please vote on the unsupported part of the proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 8 against 40, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against it. In fact, this is a similar proposal, as earlier was the debate on the members of the Supreme Judicial Council upon termination of the term of office. I voted against the Law Commission in the same way earlier. Seven of your people are telling the colleagues who were speaking earlier. Reform in the judiciary is not only done by speaking but also by voting. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u61	I shall put to the vote § 10 on the Commission report. They voted 97 peoples: 93, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u62	Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 7a. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs for the creation of § 7a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... Article 51 is amended as follows: Art. 51. (1) The remuneration of the Chief Inspector shall be equal to the remuneration of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council (2) The remuneration of inspectors shall be equal to 90 per cent of the remuneration of the Chief Inspector. By § 8 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 12. Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 8a. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The internship as Chief Inspector or Inspector shall be regarded as an internship under art. 225, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u63	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After the discussions in the Commission, I comment on the proposals of Yavor Haytov and Chavdar Georgiev, which are for amendments to art. 53. This is regarding the proposal for a new paragraph....................................................................................................... 225, para. 1. In the Commission, we adopted this decision with regard to the Inspectorate with the belief that such a decision in the previous phase and the previous amendments have been established with regard to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. In the verification, after the vote in the Legal Committee was concluded, it appears that, at a previous stage, we did not adopt such an amendment with regard to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. So the idea of comparing the inspectors of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council will not actually be possible, but now we will give a right which will probably be interpreted again as some privilege only for the inspectors. In order not to do so, I propose that we do not support the Commission's decision to create a new § 13 and to have a separate vote on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u65	- What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, when the National Assembly votes on legislative texts, in addition to caring for internal coherence, consistency and coherence of the texts, these texts must be subject to the will of the National Assembly. The lyrics must be subordinate in the first place! What is the lawmaker's will? If the will of the legislator is in a certain direction, in a certain sense, the National Assembly may adopt the relevant texts to reflect that will. If there is an internal contradiction or discrepancy, the National Assembly may correct it, overcome it by appropriate adjustments in the other texts. Therefore, it is important for us, if we have the will, then the internship of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Inspectorate must be respected within the meaning of art. 225, para. 1. There is nothing to prevent us from voting on this text now, and then at a certain point, revoting or voting on the corresponding amendment in the text relating to the Supreme Judicial Council by levelling the regime for both bodies, if that is our will. I think that this is our will and therefore I suggest that, instead of calling on you not to support the Commission's proposal, we should support the Commission's proposal and, when the right time comes, correct the relevant text also in relation to the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kazak, I think you were absolutely right. Yeah, that's the other option. I would say that this is a more positive opportunity compared to the debates in the Legal Committee, that is, to give equal rights to the members of the two members of the Inspectorate and to the Supreme Judicial Council. I don't mind your logic. She's the other option to solve the case. He's more positive. If the plenary of the National Assembly considers that the members of the Inspectorate and the Supreme Judicial Council should be respected the internship within the meaning of art. 225, para. 1, let me support this proposal for the Inspectorate. In this report, we do not have this as a proposal with regard to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. That is, when the systematic moment comes, I ask my fellow Members for a procedural understanding that they will also do this as a proposal for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. [[M Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva's reply.]] Colleagues say we're past art. 29 and there's no way to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u69	If you want, let's take a break and go to the Legal Committee. We have that kind of practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u70	Let's reschedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u71	Let's postpone the text to create an additional paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u72	I shall put to the vote the motion to postpone the vote on the creation of a new § 13 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. We unanimously accepted the proposal to postpone the vote and the debate on the creation of a new § 13. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 11 and § 12 on the Commission report, which is actually § 8 by importer. We are voting on paragraphs 11 and 12 on the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Commission report have been adopted. Moving on to § 9 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u73	Paragraph 9 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1, t. 13 is amended as follows: after the word "supplied" the draft is added, and after the word "shows" are added to the plenum and a sentence is created second: The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council may express an opinion on the presented draft budget by submitting it to the National Assembly in proposals from the Inspectorate type. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: ..................................................................... 5 is I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5. The so-called t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 13. discusses proposals from the Minister of Justice draft budget of the judiciary in his part concerning the draft budget of the Inspectorate and presents it to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council may express an opinion on the presented draft budget by submitting it to the National Assembly in proposals by the Inspectorate. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u74	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendments to both the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary included new powers of the Inspectorate. The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council should be independent of the Supreme Judicial Council, so we have proposed the Inspectorate to propose the budget, to be discussed and submitted to the National Assembly. That's what we're after. The independence of the Inspectorate. When it has an independent budget, it will be much easier to implement the new powers that you have imposed on it with the amendments to the Constitution, as well as with the amendments and additions to the Law on the Judiciary. This is the purpose of our proposal "Independent Inspectorate," which can, through its budgetary independence,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the purpose of our proposal. I'm asking you to support him, I don't think it's something he's going to bring into some kind of chaos, as were the lines and calls, the judiciary budget. No, he won't. It will lead to the Inspectorate's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 10, against 26, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 14 against 45, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 supported by the Commission and becoming § 14 in its report. We are voting § 14 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u77	Paragraph 10 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. the second sentence is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 10: 1. in t. 1 the word "supplied" is replaced by "five" is replaced by "supplied." 2. in t. 5, in the text of the created para. The 7th sentence is amended as follows: Their reward is no less than the remuneration of a judge in a district court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words twice and a half shall be replaced by the words two and a half times. 2. In para. 2 shall be added at the end for the enforcement of the powers under art. 54, para. 1, t. 8 are appointed by competition and experts with higher economic or other appropriate education who have at least 5 years of experience in the speciality and meet the requirements of art. 18, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The contest under para. 2 shall be conducted by rules and methodology for selection approved by the Chief Inspector and shall also include carrying out an inspection under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for candidates born before 16 July 1973. Before their appointment, experts shall undergo an integrity check and declare consent during their occupation to be subjected periodically to such checks. (4) The integrity check under para. 3 includes verification of the facts and circumstances declared relating to the property situation and conflict of interest. 4. A new para is being created. 5. The experts' integrity checks, including the obligation to declare property, shall be carried out by rules adopted by the Inspectorate, which shall be published on its website. 5. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: The non-transmission of an integrity check is grounds for dismissal. (7) Experts with the Inspectorate shall be appointed and released by the Chief Inspector. Their remuneration is no less than the remuneration of a judge in a regional court and no more than the remuneration of a judge in a district court. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u78	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With respect to integrity and this check. I do not know how this integrity check will be carried out on the condition that there is no clear and precise definition of the concept of integrity. Yes, an attempt has been made here what is involved in practice this integrity check, but does this mean that if a candidate for an inspector has not declared in his declaration two acres of land to his wife, for example, that he is dishonest? From this point of view, this concept of integrity and the attempt to give it a legal definition, I think, are unsuccessful, which will lead to chaos and tensions at all in the assessment and verification of integrity itself. I think that it does not correspond to our demands that some people who are honorable are involved in the Inspectorate, who, by applying for these positions, will not be subjected to a public pressure on whether they are honest or not, provided that we do not have a real and comprehensive definition of this word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 5 against 33, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 5 against 52, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 15 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 88, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted. Paragraph 11 by importer, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u81	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 11a. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: The Administrative Heads are obliged to provide information to the Chief Inspector and the inspectors about the actions they have taken on any signal or proposal sent to them by the Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 16 on the Commission report, as well as the proposal of the Commission for the creation of a new § 17 with its corresponding content on the report. Vote 87 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 4. Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u83	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 12: 1. At the beginning of the paragraph, the words shall be inserted in art. 60 the following amendments and additions shall be made: 2. The current text, with the corresponding editorial change, becomes t. 1. 3. A t is created. 2: "2." The creation of para. 2: The Chief Inspector may authorise the Chief Secretary of the Inspectorate by his authority as a contracting authority under the Public Procurement Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 60th para The Chief Inspector may authorise the Chief Secretary of the Inspectorate by his authority as a contracting authority under the Public Procurement Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 18. Proposal by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60c, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The remuneration of the experts is no less than the remuneration of a judge in a district court and no more than the remuneration of a judge in a district court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u84	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 9 against 50, abstention 28. The proposal is not accepted, and it contains the proposal of Yavor Haytov, so it is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 18 and 19 on the Commission report, with § 19 being proposed as new with its respective content on the report. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 18 and 19 of the committee report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u85	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: In § 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: 1. Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is (1) A qualified Bulgarian citizen may be elected as a juror who: 1. is aged 21 to 65 years; 2. has a current address in a municipality which falls within the judicial area of the court for which it applies; 3. has completed at least secondary education; 4. enjoys a good name in society; 5. is not convicted of a deliberate crime, regardless of rehabilitation; 6. does not suffer from mental illness. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 13: 1. in t. 1, new content of para. 1, ct. 1 supposed to be replaced by the following: 2. in t. 2, created para. 3, p. 3 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. participate in the national leadership of a political party, coalition or organisation with political objectives, and is listed as such in the relevant judicial register; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u86	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 12, against 46, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 12, against 53, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 20, following the Commission's support in full. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 20 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u87	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 14, in the text of the created art. 46a, para. 1 the word "nine" is replaced by "six." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 67a and 67b: Art. 67a. (1) No later than 8 months before the expiry of the term of office of the jury, the general meetings under art. 68b shall determine the number of the jury for the courts concerned, taking into account: 1. the number of cases which each first instance court has dealt with in the previous year with a jury; 2. the opinion of the President of each Court of First Instance on the trends of an increase or decrease in those cases. (2) Under the conditions of para. 1 The General Assembly of the Judges of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court shall determine the number of the Judges for the Specialized Criminal Court elected by the Sofia Municipal Council. (3) The number of candidates proposed by the municipal councils for a jury may not be less than defined by the general meetings under art. 68b the number of the jury for the court concerned. Art. 67b. Within 6 months of the expiry of the jury's term of office, the Presidents of the District and Appeal Courts and the Specialised Criminal Court of Appeal shall communicate to the municipal councils the number of jury to be elected. According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 68 is amended as follows: Art. 68. (1) Within 5 months of the expiry of the term of office of the jury, the municipal councils located in the judicial district of the court concerned shall announce in a local daily newspaper, in electronic media, on the websites of the respective municipalities and municipal councils, and in the absence of such councils in any other appropriate way, the opening of the procedure for the appointment of the jury and the rules for its conduct. Within the same time limit, municipal councils shall select committees which shall carry out an examination of the documents of the candidates for a jury and shall draw up a report. (2) Any Bulgarian citizen who meets the requirements of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. One, she can run for jury. (3) The candidates for a jury shall submit to the municipal councils located in the judicial area of the relevant court: 1. detailed CV signed by the applicant; 2. a notary certified copy of a diploma for completed education; 3. a criminal record issued for an application for a jury; 4. medical certificate that the person does not suffer from mental illness; 5. contact details of two persons to whom municipal councils should turn for recommendations; 6. motivational letter; 7. written consent; 8. Declaration of absence of circumstances under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within 9. a document for verification under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army if they were born before 16 July 1973. (4) The list of candidates admitted to participate, together with their CVs, motivational letters and recommendations and documents under para. 3, p. 9 shall be published on the website of the municipal council at least 14 days before the date of the hearing under art. 68a. At least 10 per cent of the persons included in the list must be qualified in the field of pedagogics, psychology and social activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u88	Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u89	Yeah, for a split vote on both paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u90	Okay. There is a proposal made by MP Philip Popov for a separate vote on the two paragraphs. Firstly, I am putting to the vote a proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 10, against 57, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 21 on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 21 has been unanimously adopted. I shall put to the vote § 22 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 93, none, abstentioned 9. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u91	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 16, in the text of the created art. 68a, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: "No later than three working days before the hearing any person may present to the municipal council an opinion on the candidate, including questions to be asked. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 23: § 23. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 68a, 68b, 68c, 68d, 68e and 68f: Art. 68a. (1) The municipal councils or committees designated by them shall hear each of the candidates admitted in a public meeting, and any member of the municipal council may ask questions. (2) No later than three working days before the hearing, non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public utility activities may submit opinions to the municipal council on the applicant, including questions to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. (3) When the hearing was held by a committee, it shall draw up a report on its conduct, which shall be submitted to the municipal council within seven days before the vote and shall be published on the website of the municipal council on the Internet together with the minutes of the hearing. (4) The municipal councils in a public meeting by a majority, more than half of the members present, shall appoint the candidates for a jury, who shall propose for election from the general meetings of the district and appeals courts, and the Sofia Municipal Council, and the General Assembly of the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal. Art. 68b. The jury shall be elected to: 1. the district courts of the General Assembly of the Judges of the respective district court; 2. the district courts of the General Assembly of the Judges of the relevant Court of Appeal; 3. the specialized criminal court of the General Assembly of the Judges of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. Art. 68c. The municipal councils shall, within three months of the expiry of the jury's term of office, forward the list to the candidates for a jury together with a copy of their decisions and documents referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3: 1. for the district courts to the President of the district court concerned; 2. for the district courts to the President of the relevant court of appeal; 3. for the specialized Criminal Court to the President of the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court. Art. 68. (1) The jury in the military courts shall be elected on a proposal from the commanders of the military formations of the General Assembly of the Judges of the Military Court. (2) The General Assembly of the Judges of the Court of Military Appeal shall determine the number of the jury for the military courts to be proposed by the commanders of the military formations. The distribution of the number of jurors to military courts must be the same ratio as the number of servicemen in the areas of military courts. (3) The commanders of the military formations may propose additional persons whose number shall not exceed 20 percent of the number assigned to the respective military court. (4) Within three months, the commanders of the military formations shall send a list of their proposed candidates to the President of the Military Appeals Court. The proposals shall also be annexed to the documents referred to in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October (5) The General Assembly of the Judges of the Court of Military Appeal shall discuss the submitted applications and shall elect the jury. Art. 68e. (1) The Presidents of the District, Appeals and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court shall establish a commission which shall carry out a verification of compliance with the requirements of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the candidates for a jury proposed by the municipal councils. (2) Candidates who meet the requirements and are elected shall take an oath before the General Assembly of Judges at the respective Regional, District, Military and Specialized Criminal Court. (3) The list of the chosen and sworn jury shall be published on the website of the relevant court on the Internet. Art. 68f. When the Commission finds that the proposed by the municipal councils candidates meeting the requirements of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 shall be less than the defined in Article 1. Number 67a, the President of the court concerned shall send a request to the municipal councils to complete the list of candidates for a jury within one month of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u92	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 13, against 57, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 23 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 4. Paragraph 23 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u93	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In § 17, Article 17 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 17, in the new content of art. 69, para. 1 the word "three" is replaced by "five." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Article 69 is amended as follows: Art. 69. (1) The term of office of the jury shall be 4 years and shall begin from the date of taking the oath. (2) The jury may not be elected for more than two consecutive terms to the same court. (3) If the examination of the cases in which the jury participates shall continue after the term under para. 1, their participation in the relevant cases shall continue until their closure in the relevant judicial office. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u94	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission, which is identical with the next proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. Please vote on both proposals. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 59, abstention 22. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 24 to 27, including on the Commission's report. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraphs 24 to 27, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u96	We've already voted on that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u97	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: The Commission shall not support the proposal referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 and shall, in principle, support it in the remainder of the proposal: "2." Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The request of the jury for each sitting day shall be determined on the basis of the hours worked for the day which correspond to the time of the time scheduled for the start of the hearing until the time of its completion, including the start of an hour. In more than one meeting per day, the time of the hour scheduled for the beginning of the first meeting shall be understood as the time of completion of the last hearing. 3. A new para is being created. 3, para. 4, para. 5 and para. 6: When the hearing ends with the signing of a court order, the time at which the hearing is signed shall be understood to be the end of the hearing. (4) Any appearance of a juror to sign a court order outside the dates of meetings shall be paid. (5) The duration of the secret meeting of the panel shall be reflected by the judge and shall be paid. (6) A full-time remuneration shall be paid to the juror for a hearing, regardless of the duration of the hearing. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3, para. 4, para. 5 and para. 6 becomes respectively. 7, para. 8, para. 9th para. 10. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 21, new content of art. 73, the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 2 text after the comma after the day is amended as follows: The time from the scheduled start time of the meeting until the end of the meeting, including each starting hour. 2. in para. 4 "50' is replaced by "80'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 73 is amended as follows: Art. 73. (1) They shall be paid remuneration from the budget of the judiciary for the time when the jury performs their duties and duties relating to them. (2) The remuneration of the jury for each sitting day shall be determined on the basis of the actual hours worked for the day which correspond to the duration of the hearing until the judgment has been declared, including the start of an hour. In the event of a postponement of the hearing of the jury, remuneration shall be paid for two hours worked, calculated in accordance with para. 4. (3) The remuneration shall be paid monthly for all the meeting days of the month concerned. (4) The amount of the remuneration of the jury per day shall be equal to 1/22 of 60 per cent of the basic salary for a district judge, a district judge and a court-martial judge, but not less than BGN 20. a day. (5) The costs of transport which they have incurred in connection with their participation in court hearings shall be reimbursed to the jury. (6) Within three months of taking the oath, the court administrator or administrative secretary of the court concerned and the National Institute of Justice shall organise and conduct initial training of the jury. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov in accordance with Article 22. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Chapter 4, Section II is created art. 75a: Art. 75a. The Supreme Judicial Council shall adopt a regulation setting out: 1. the terms and conditions by which the number of the jury shall be determined, as well as the reserve jury for each court; 2. ethical rules of conduct of the jury; 3. other organisational issues related to the work of the jury.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u98	You have the floor to speak, honourable Members of the National Assembly referred to in paragraphs 21 and 22 by importer. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making an editorial proposal. In the version of the Commission, which is in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the I'm doing it as fewer and fewer people...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u100	You mean paragraph four?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u101	Yes, paragraph 4. Yeah. Less and less people are attracted to this responsible jury position. The judicial authority and the system are having difficulty finding people who are responsible for carrying this burden. This also happens because of the fact that it is not attractive to most people. Twenty leva a day, I think it wouldn't be enough to attract more people as a jury. That's why my editorial proposal is for 25 BGN. to be able to pay the persons responsible for carrying out these duties on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The line, Mr. Kirilov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u103	Mr. President, without reinstating the long debate on this issue, which took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to say that the entire Commission supports the logic that Mr. Popov said. I recall and specify that at present, the jury's remuneration is BGN 7.43. So with the proposed and adopted by the Commission, not to say almost triple, but more than twice this remuneration increases. Also, if you remember, here and the Ministry of Finance after severe discussions still supported this text. We believe that this is serious progress in favor of attracting more worthy, interested Bulgarians with the right to participate as a jury in the cases in which the jury's participation is envisaged. I would also stress that the President of the Jury Union attended the meeting and I believe that the editorial board satisfies the jurors' demands. Otherwise, I thank the logic and argument that Mr. Popov developed. I'm not gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Mr. Popov, will you take advantage? No, you won't take advantage. Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Atanas Atanasov in its unsupported part of the Commission, namely points 2, 3 and 4. Please vote. They voted 100 MPs: 27, against 37, abstention 36. The proposal in the part not supported by the Commission has not been accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 13, against 61, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Philip Popov in art. 73, para. 4: the number Please vote on the proposal of MP Philip Popov, made by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 102 MPs: 21, against 47, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 28 and 29 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraphs 28 and 29 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously. Proceed with § 23 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u105	According to § 23, an offer is made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 23: 1. in t. 1: (a) b. The following is amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice b) in b. The third sentence is amended as follows: 2. in t. 2, b. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. a) in the created t. 6 A sentence third is created: The General Assembly shall adopt the report, with or without comments; b) in the created t. 9 the word "busy' is replaced by "busy'. 3. ct. 4 the created para. 6 is amended as follows: At the request of the President of the Regional Court or of any other magistrate concerned, the decisions of the General Assembly of the Regional Court may be revoked by the General Assembly of the District Court concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Petar Slavov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence, first sentence, is added by participating without voting rights, and third sentence is created: In the General Assembly participate without voting rights and the state judicial contractors and the judges of the entries when dealing with issues affecting their activities. 2. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." may make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and may hear all candidates; b) To be created t. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9: "3." hear the candidates proposed by the President of the Court for the appointment of alternates and may give an opinion on the proposals; 4. determine the number and compositions of compartments, if any, and their specialization in matter; 5. give opinions on requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees concerning the activities of the regional courts; 6. discusses every year the report of the President of the Court of Justice; 7. give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on bills relating to the activities of the regional courts; 8. adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities; 9. adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court, of his alternates, of the Chairs of wards, if any, of the Judges of the Regional Court who are entrusted with carrying out organisational functions, and in the case of a prescription of the health authorities; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 10. 3. In para. 3 the words "can't consider and adopt decisions' shall be replaced by "to express opinions' and, finally, a proposal from not less than one third of the Judges shall be added. 4. The creation of para. 6: The Judges seconded shall participate with a vote in the general meetings of the Court of Justice from which they are seconded.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u106	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. Your offer is supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor in relation to the proposal I have made, which is supported by the Commission, but not precisely enough, and I will therefore propose an editorial change, colleagues, which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u108	In § 30. It's where you make the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u109	That's right. 30, which is paragraph 23 of an importer. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 para. 2, in the new t. 2, where is the second one, you can read all the candidates, you can write and the text will get the following form: "2." He may make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and shall hear all candidates. I mean, the hearing of the candidates...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u110	Let's drop the second one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u111	Yes, the second can fall to make it clear that all candidates are being heard. Colleagues, I think it is clear that when there is a power to propose its own candidate, then if it is left in the manner in which it has been formulated to be able to listen to the applicants, it would mean that certain candidates could subjectively not be heard, that all candidates outside the importer's proposal could not be heard. It is therefore correct to hear all the candidates, and therefore let them fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u112	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u113	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I fully support the content that your colleague Peter Slavov offered to your attention. I take a reply simply because of the clarification that such a proposal had been made by my colleague Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. To make it clear that in order to accept this correction, I am actually making an editorial proposal with regard to § 30, point. 2 of para. 2 to fall in the second part of the sentence....................................................................................................... I would also like to point out to my fellow Members that if we accept this permission, which is the right one, we should respect it at least three times more in the competences of the general meetings of the subsequent courts of the district, appeals and supreme courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u114	In essence, you confirm Mr. Slavov's proposal. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I am surprised by this reversal in the position of the President of the Legal Committee after we in the Commission unanimously came to the conclusion that it is precisely necessary for the expression to remain, because otherwise it appears that it is imperative that, after the General Assembly of Judges, all candidates be heard. We agreed on such a thing in the Commission that it could not happen. It's not appropriate, it's not appropriate. Maybe some candidate doesn't want to be heard. You know that some candidates may not be judges in the court in question, may be from another court, from another city and so on. After all, why would the General Assembly listen to the candidates when they are voted by the Supreme Judicial Council? The recording may remain because one of the candidates, if he wishes, may request to be heard. However, replacing it as an imperative power and obligation of all candidates to go through a hearing from the General Assembly, respectively, is absolutely inappropriate and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u116	A line? A hole, Mr. Slavov? You won't use it. To speak, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! I would like to answer the questions that my colleague Chetin Kazak has raised. The explanation is as follows. Assuming that the General Assembly of a specific district court nominates and chooses one candidate, it could, by means of the option, be excluded and prevent other candidates from hearing. For example, by logic, we support our candidate, we have chosen him. Here I will say a miss we made with colleague Petar Slavov, but I will do it later. And look at the next item. 3:... may express opinions on proposals............................................................................................ Assuming that, in this case, the General Assembly has expressed its support only for its own candidate, this could undermine the other candidates whose candidacy will not be discussed by the General Assembly, that is to say, the chamber body which is the only one in the Constitution to resolve the issues, will have a single opinion and will have the silence of the members of magistrates in the specific district court. Reflecting on the field of equality, we believe he should listen to everyone. Yes, it is likely that this hearing could give different views on the different source of nominations, but we rely on the fact that the personnel body could comply with any subjective nuance or nuance that would lead to a certain bias, and already in its final choice to make this choice on the basis of all the facts, including all the opinions of the General Assembly in question. I therefore specify that, speaking of the editorial proposal for a change in point. 2 of para. 2 to be involved can also be done:.. and listens to all the candidates, this should be symmetrical in my opinion and with editorial change in point. 3. [[M Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva's reply.]] It's got nothing to do with it. I'm sorry. But you can do it here, Madame Minister. [[M Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva's reply.]] But this is for the deputies, yes. I apologize, we were actually precise in clarifying the editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u118	You were talking about t. 3, and you support for t. Two down...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u119	Yeah, there's still the editorial proposal for t. 2. It has nothing to do with that. 3, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u120	Thank you. The line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u121	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, here you are, even now you realize that such Adhok changes here in plenary, instead of clearing the text, risk making it even worse.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u122	There are no risks, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u123	There is, Madam President. I also refer to you as an experienced lawyer. Where's the problem coming from? The problem comes from the fact that the initial direction in which the importer is pushing us is wrong. With all these new powers previously unseen, which are granted to the General Assembly of Judges, to participate in the process of taking part in the selection process of the head of the court concerned, it is precisely the mines which will start to explode when these texts start to apply. Why? Because now you see it's hardly recognised that some of the candidates can be put at a disadvantage. Colleagues, with these powers you initially bet such inequality. It has so far been clear that the only personnel body is the Supreme Judicial Council. He has the right to propose and choose, nominate and elect the Presidents of the Courts. Now, when you put a similar right to the General Assembly, you naturally put those or that candidate that the General Assembly of Judges in the relevant court will nominate with the other candidates that someone else will nominate to the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u124	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u125	How do you do that? What do you mean, there's no one?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u126	Colleagues, this is not serious as a debate in the House with speeches from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u127	You are betting precisely this inequality with the very creation of these powers. To clear this problem, at least leave an option. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Otherwise you will really create huge problems and conflicts between the General Assembly and the candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u128	Time, Mr. Kazak. Thank you. Second line? I won't. Will you use a hole, Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Any other MPs? For a statement, Mr. Kazak?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u129	Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u130	So far, there's been a line, and now there's an opportunity for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u131	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am pleased that the President of the National Assembly is holding this meeting because what we are about to vote is indeed a historic breakthrough in the organisation of the judiciary, and it is a breakthrough, which, as I said, lays down mines in the functioning of the judiciary, which are not known when and how they can be triggered. Honourable Members, Madam President of the National Assembly, this text introduces an institute which was neither provided for in the Strategy for the Continuation of Judicial Reform nor in the amendments to the Constitution under Chapter. We know that so far we only knew the Institute of Local Self-Management, and now the importers and instigators who are the authors of this new idea, are passing through the National Assembly the Institute of so-called "Judie Self-Management" who risks betting, as I said, some mines in the functioning of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u132	Colleagues, this military terminology is a little too much for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u133	We have a poor fantasy of what can be achieved by the total chaos in the overall process of organizational and administrative management of the judiciary bodies. All these powers proposed here are then transferred to other bodies.. to hear, it means to propose candidates, to listen to them, and it is imperative that, already, to hear the proposed alternates of the administrative director, that is to say to the President, to discuss and adopt each year the report of the President on the activities of the court, to adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court. These are all powers granted to the General Assembly. They will have as a result to create a dualism of at least dualism in the administration of the judicial authorities, with all the risks arising from this: by blocking important management and organizational decisions of the governing team of the court concerned, and hence creating prerequisites for partying and internal struggles, within the courts in question, dividing them into groups, representatives of this or that interest group, of this or that word organization, blaming the President's decisions, blaming the President as such. In the end, blocking the activities of the body and creating prerequisites for anarchy in the relevant bodies of the judiciary. Therefore, I cannot support such texts. They are contrary to philosophy, to what we have adopted as an amendment to the Constitution. They go to an extreme that is harmful to one of the three authorities, the independent judiciary. They go in absolute contradiction with elementary principles of organizational structuring, of carrying some personalized responsibility for who makes the organisational management decisions and ultimately, as I said, risk creating huge problems and blocking, paralysis of judicial authorities. Therefore, Madam President, I am making a formal proposal to drop out of this. 2 of Paragraph 30, paragraphs 2, 3 and 6, since they are extremely untenable, unreasonable and wrong. The General Assembly of Judges cannot create a separate power to propose candidates and to listen to them, as this is the power of the Supreme Judicial Council. This will put at a disadvantage those candidates who will not be judges in the relevant court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u134	Time, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u135	Also, the discussion and adoption of the report of the President of the Court is not the work of the General Assembly, but is the work of the Supreme Judicial Council or the above-mentioned Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u136	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u137	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr Kazak! I served two years in the Bulgarian army as a sapper.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u138	I told you they were dangerous all kinds of war terms! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u139	Mines don't scare me, and that's why I want to answer, Madam President, because it's important to know the tactics of their disposal. Since you are raising a key issue with this bill, I would like to reassure you that the proposed editorials have been refined to the maximum extent and correspond to both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's practice so far on these issues. There is nothing wrong with general meetings being able to express opinions on candidates because they will subsequently work together without defining and clarifying the relationship, but they will work together in a court with these administrative leaders. It is important that magistrates are consciously involved in this process. Yes, and you are right: it is important and consciously not to manipulate this process. I believe that the amendments to which the Legal Committee has finally reached give a balanced solution. I use this case to express my faith and deep conviction that the magistrates will not use these powers to close, grouping, separizing, to pursue each other or one another, but will use these powers to nominate and choose the best among them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u140	Second line, Mr. Slavov. The three colleagues are challenging me to call you waiting for you to understand each other. Fifteen minutes we're listening to the same thing. I think my colleagues in this room are oriented. We're listening, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u141	Madam President, I will be very brief and strict under the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr. Kazak had just remarked that the proposed Adhok was being made in this House and risked the texts dangerously to be turned over, although supported by the Commission after a long debate. He, under this provision, does not have a single proposal here, and at the same time came out and gave a edifying five-minute speech about how the judges' rule was bad and so on without making a concrete proposal on the text. We're at second reading. If he didn't like the lyrics as much as he did, he should have made the right suggestions. He didn't do it, he comes out here and edifies us, including using the words of the kind of instigators, as if it were an organized crime group! I just can't explain his behavior. I see further in the Bill that, with regard to the plenarys of the supreme courts, he has made proposals. We know that there's the most interested DPS, but at the low levels where they've never been interested in doing and stuff like that, I can't understand why this activity is now?! Colleagues, I call on you: let us now support the judicial self-government. We are all aware that the President or the administrative head of the court is not the head of the magistrates, but is first among the equal, as is often used in such a term. There's nothing wrong with judging self-government. It is a form of participation of magistrates from a court in its management, in its management together with the administrative supervisor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u142	Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I take the word in the form of a line to say the following. In fact, Mr. Kazak hinted at this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u144	No, you don't interpret his ideas. Turn to him what you agree with or disagree with his words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u145	Mr. Kazak, I agree with the fact that in the documents from committee to chamber, the reformers have made such a proposal to the government, which they cannot refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u146	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! We are voting on a very important text. You have no idea how important a text we are voting on. This haste you're pushing to end it is truly regrettable! Dear Mr. Slavov, if you remember, I don't know if you were at the meeting, you must have been, I made such suggestions and comments in the Legal Committee. That's where I suggested they drop those three points. That you do not appear in the report, you can open the transcripts and minutes of the meeting of the Legal Commission. You'll see that's where I suggested they drop those three points. They have not been accepted, and now, naturally, I am making the proposal in plenary because I am convinced that such new powers will neither win the independence of the judiciary, nor in any way help to solve the ill-fated problems there, but on the contrary, we will create new, unseen conflicts, problems, parting, grouping in each court on any grounds: whether or not any candidate or chair of our court is sympathetic or not; whether he tolerates us in dealing with cases; in compliance with discipline; in the conduct of cases and compliance with deadlines or not; whether it belongs to our word organization, or to the other word organization, and so on and so on. Why is that necessary?! In order to avoid all this, the Constitution and the whole practice so far has foreseen the President to be elected by the Supreme Judicial Council in order to be relatively evenly distant from all judges who will lead, not to be subordinate, dependent or obliged to a group of them, who will nominate him and to whom he will then have to return this service. Secondly, how do you bet that the President of the Court should necessarily be among the judges of this court?! It could be from another court, from a higher court or from another court! How will you ensure equality then?! These are all questions you have no reasonable, rational answers to. However, you are blindly going in the direction of referee self-government, which will cause unsuspected damage to the judiciary. I hope I'm not a bad prophet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u148	Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u149	Thank you, Madam President. I use this opportunity to thank you for all our adopted texts. You know that there is a very important text to be voted on right now. I see Mr. Tsvetanov and many other MPs are here, but many are absent. I ask for a name check, as there are many important texts ahead, and I want this House to be complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u150	Name check: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here Additionally recorded: Aliosman Imamov, Atanas Zafirov, Georg Georgiev, Georgi Kadiev, Dimitar Delchev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Mihail Mikov, Mehmed Ataman, Georgi Andonov and Ayhan Etem. There is a quorum. Let's move on. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. They voted 127 MPs: 28 against 70, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We move on to § 30 in the version of the Commission. There was a proposal which I am obliged to put to the vote first, otherwise it was made second in a row, to Mr. Kazak, who proposed in point. 2...................................................................................... 2 of art. 79 to drop the proposed new points 2, 3 and 6. We are voting on Mr Kazak's proposal for dropping points from the Commission's version. They voted 125 MPs: 29, against 67, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal, supported by Mr. Kirilov, in § 30 for changes in art. 79, p. 2...................................................................................... 2 to create a new t. 2 to read: "2." may make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and shall hear all candidates;.. the words may be dropped................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They voted 130 MPs: 106, against 14, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on § 30 in the version of the Commission's report, in line with the amendments that have just been made by the plenary in the version of this report. 2 letter (s) to para. 2. They voted 129 MPs: 106 against 14, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u151	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I voted against it, because the events that have just taken place in plenary show in practice how behind-the-scenes works, in the sense of how a small group dominates the big group, and I have my evidence. During the debate and votes in the Legal Committee, everyone cannot unite around one opinion and the report of the Legal Committee is in this direction, and now in plenary Adhok of this tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u152	The word has the plenary room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u153	...to make a proposal in the opposite direction. As I said earlier, this proposal has been made in the style of an offer that it cannot refuse. In this sense, I sympathize with the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u154	Second negative vote? I won't. Colleagues, we're gonna do a 30-minute recess. I appeal to be exact. At 2:20, let's not start with a name check again. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u155	The Quaestors, please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber the time for interruption is up. Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening to § 24 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u156	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! According to § 24, an offer by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 24, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. the change of t. 1 of para. 1 of art. 80. 2. in the new content of t. 6 on para. 1 of art. 80 the word "five" is replaced by "three." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Text before t. 1 shall be amended as follows: the application of the Regional Court of Justice shall carry out a general administrative and administrative authority of the Regional Court of Justice, such as: 2. Points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: "1." represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organise the work of the judges and the jury; 3. convene and manage the General Assembly of the Court; 4. participate in court hearings in accordance with the random selection in the division of cases; 5. propose to the General Assembly the distribution of judges by compartment, where available; 6. determine, on a proposal from the General Assembly, the Chairs of Chambers, where available, for a period of 5 years; 3. Points 8, 9, 10 and 11 are amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. direct and supervise the work of the Criminal Court Office, the Civil Service Tribunal, the Registry Judges and the Judicial Assistants; 9. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court and organise the work of the individual services; 10. inform the Minister of Justice of the vacant positions for state contractors and judges on the entries; 11. approve the establishment schedule of the administration of the court after its discussion by the General Assembly of the Regional Court; 4. They're creating a t. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17: ..12. draw up an annual report on the activities of the court and submit it to the President of the district court by 31 January for inclusion in the annual report; 13. at the end of each six-month period, provide the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council with summary information on the formation, movement and conclusion of the cases of the Judges, as well as on the final revocation of acts by the higher courts and the Minister of Justice with information on the formation, movement and completion of the case files and cases of the civil courts and of the Judges of the Registry; 14. provide information, references and statistics in electronic form by models and within time limits established by the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, and provide them to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice; 15. organize the publication of the acts of the court on the website of the district court on the Internet subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 16. publish the annual report on the activity of the court on the website of the district court on the Internet within one month of its submission to the President of the district court; 17. in accordance with the rules adopted determines the workload under art. 79, para. 2, p. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u157	Statements? Are there any MPs to speak with? The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. We vote. Vote 78 MPs: 9 against 45 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 31 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 72 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u158	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u159	We are voting on paragraphs 32 and 33 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 72, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u160	According to § 27, a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 27: 1. 1 is amended as follows: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 after the words "all judges' shall be comma and shall be added "including those seconded to the court concerned'. 2. in t. 2 point (b) in the creation of this point. A third sentence shall be created: the General Assembly shall adopt the report, with or without comments, in the new discussion. 3. ct. 2 letter in the newly created e.g. 7 the word "busy' is replaced by "busy'. 4. 4 the created para. 7 is amended as follows: At the request of the President of the District Court or of any other magistrate concerned, the decisions of the General Assembly of the District Court may be revoked by the General Assembly of the Court of Appeal concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end by participating without voting rights. 2. In para. 3: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." determine the number and compositions of compartments, if any, as well as their specialization in matter; (b) New items shall be created. 2, 3, 4 and 5: "2." may make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and may hear all candidates; 3. hear the candidates proposed by the President of the Court for the appointment of alternates and may express an opinion on the proposals; 4. discuss the annual report of the President of the Court of Justice; 5. give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on draft laws relating to the activities of the district courts; c) create t. 6 and 7: It's six. adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities; 7. adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court, of his alternates, of the Chairs of Wards, if any, of the Judges of the District Court who are tasked with carrying out organisational functions, and in the case of a prescription of the Health Authorities; (d) the so-called t. 2, 3, 4 and 5 are respectively t. 8, 9, 10 and 11. 3. In para. 4 the words "can't consider and adopt decisions' shall be replaced by "to express opinions' and, finally, a proposal of not less than one third of the Judges shall be added. 4. The creation of para. 7. The Judges seconded shall participate with a vote in the general meetings of the Court of Justice from which they are seconded. Madam President, please, and in this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u161	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 to drop the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u162	...in t. 2 drop the part and it can happen:.. and listen to all
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u164	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will not repeat the arguments I have made on the previous paragraph similar to this paragraph. This is about the general meetings of the district courts. I am formally proposing to drop the new paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of para. 3. I would just like to draw attention to the Minister of Justice, too, that the direction in which he is being pushed through the so-called "Judy Self-Management" organisation of the judiciary goes in clear contradiction with the basic recommendation of the European Commission of 2006, which requires equal distance between the administrative heads of all.... and judges, and other factors in the judiciary. You de facto, with the introduction of the judges' self-government, by empowering the general meetings to participate in the chamber and in determining the future executives, you actually condemn them to be dependent, to be more closely associated with a certain group of magistrates at the expense of another, that is, the equal distance of the administrative leaders is lost irreversibly. This is contrary, as I said, with a basic recommendation from the European Commission of 2006, which was made when we negotiated for membership in the European Union, and this is a return. I sincerely hope that as soon as possible you will reconsider this position and adjust yourself with regard to this type of judicial self-government, which is now being adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u165	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u166	Thank you, Madam President. With these proposals, I believe that self-government and greater democracy in the judiciary is precisely what these proposals are meant to do. The judicial authority is not such a structure, it is not such a system in which judges and the judges' guild can manage themselves what it will practically govern. This will lead to greater chaos, to creating different groups and lobbies inside the system itself, which will lead to its dysfunction in practice. The administrative manager will be forced to work with one group or another, with one or another lobby inside the system itself, in order to be able to perform its functions as they are assigned to him under this Law. Both in the previous text and here, I also urge you to reconsider this concept because it will not work. She really hasn't worked until now, and it might be a good thing. But we shouldn't be doing experiments here in this important law, because the probability that it doesn't work, but it should work exactly on this scheme that my colleague Kazak was just talking about, which I'm talking about, is very likely to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u167	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 14 against 55, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Kazak's proposal from the Committee on § 34 to drop the item. 2, 3 and 4 of para. 3 of art. 85. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal made in this Chamber. They voted 100 MPs: 12, against 65, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal, mirrored by the powers of the district courts, in para. 3 of art. 85, c. 2 to drop the text and to become.. can make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and to listen to all candidates;...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u168	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u169	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And yeah, it's off. Vote 97 MPs: 88, against 4, abstention 5. The motion has been voted on and accepted. And now we are voting § 34 in the version of the Commission report, in line with the amendment we have just adopted. Vote 96 MPs: 88, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u170	According to § 28 of the importer there is a proposal of Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 28, in the new content of para. 1 of art. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." carry out the general organizational and administrative management of the district court and represent it; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 86. 1 is amended The President of the district court shall carry out general organizational and administrative management of the district court, such as: 1. represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organise the work of the judges and the jury; 3. organize the preparation of the intern-journalists; 4. together with its alternates shall propose to the General Assembly the distribution of judges by compartment, where available; 5. determine, on a proposal from the General Assembly, the Chairs of Wards, where available, for a period of 5 years; 6. carry out personal or commissioning checks to a judge of the district court of the organisation of the activities of the judges of the district courts, as well as to the civil courts and to the judges of the entries; 7. convene and manage the General Assembly of the Court; 8. preside over formations from all departments, where any, subject to the principle of random selection in the division of cases; 9. organize the improvement of the qualification of judges in the judicial area; 10. Call the judges of the district court and the district courts to discuss the report under point 10. 15 of the reports of the checks of the regional courts and of the opinions of the requests for interpretation decisions or interpretations; 11. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court and organise the work of the individual services; 12. Commander of the Judges under the conditions of Art. 12. 81, as well as state contractors and judges of the entries in the district court area under the conditions of art. 274 and 290; 13. manage and control the work of judicial assistants; 14. approve the establishment schedule of the administration of the court after its discussion by the General Assembly of the District Court; 15. draw up an annual report on the activities of the Court of Justice and submit it to the President of the Court of Appeal for inclusion in the annual report by the end of February; 16. at the end of each six-month period, provide the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council with summary information on the formation, movement and completion of the first-instance and appeal cases, as well as on the final revocation of acts by the higher courts; 17. provide information, references and statistics in electronic form by models and within time limits established by the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, and provide them to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice; 18. organize the publication of the acts of the court on the website of the district court on the Internet subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 19. publish the annual report on the activity of the court on the website of the District Court on the Internet within one month of its submission to the President of the Court of Appeal; 20. in accordance with the rules adopted determines the workload of art. 85, para. 3, p. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u171	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Our proposal under § 28 is as follows: point 1 in para. 1 of art. 86 is amended as follows: the county court's general administrative and organizational management is implemented and represents it. The Commission does not support the proposal, but what does the Commission support? The Court of Justice shall exercise the general administrative and organizational authority of the district court by: 1. representing the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; Honourable Members of Parliament, this is a fracking example that texts are not accepted, although they are implicit afterwards in the Commission's proposal, only because they are proposed by the opposition. That's how the whole law goes down here, that's how it's gonna go down. This is a proposal that I do not see why it has not been adopted by the Commission, but clearly that is the nature of the work. If it is proposed by the opposition, it will not be accepted, even if it is then in the Commission's proposal itself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u173	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 16 against 62, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 35 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u174	Under § 29, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u175	We vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u176	According to § 30, there is a proposal from Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 30: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 after the words "all judges' shall be comma and shall be added "including those seconded to the court concerned;'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2, new content of para. 2: (a) c. A third sentence shall be created: the General Assembly shall adopt the report, with or without comments, in the new discussion; (b) c. 8 the word "busy' is replaced by "busy'. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the created para. 6 is amended as follows: At the request of the President of the Administrative Court or of any other magistrate concerned, the decisions of the General Assembly of the Administrative Court may be revoked by the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end by participating without voting rights. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The General Assembly shall: 1. determine the number and compositions of compartments, if any, and their specialization in matter; 2. may make proposals for the appointment of the President of the court concerned and may hear all candidates; 3. hear the candidates proposed by the President of the Court for the appointment of alternates and may express an opinion on the proposals; 4. give opinions on requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees concerning the activity of administrative courts; 5. discuss the annual report of the President of the Court of Justice; 6. give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on bills relating to the activities of administrative courts; 7. adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities; 8. adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court, of his alternates, of the Chairs of wards, if any, of the Judges of the Administrative Court, who are entrusted with carrying out organisational functions, and in the case of a prescription of the health authorities; 9. discusses at the end of every three years the division of judges by wards, where such are separate, and proposes it to the President of the Administrative Court; 10. analyze and summarize the practice of the administrative court; 11. give opinions to the Supreme Administrative Court on requests for the adoption of interpretive decisions and interpretation decrees; 12. adopt decisions in other cases provided for by law. 3. In para. 3 the words "can't consider and adopt decisions' shall be replaced by "to express opinions' and, finally, a proposal from not less than one third of the Judges shall be added. 4. The creation of para. 6: The Judges seconded shall participate with a vote in the general meetings of the Court of Justice from which they are seconded. Paragraph 31? a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 93. 1 is amended The President of the Administrative Court shall carry out a general organisational and administrative management of the Administrative Court by: 1. represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organize the work of the judges; 3. together with its alternates, propose to the General Assembly the distribution of judges by compartment, where available; 4. determine, on a proposal from the General Assembly, the Chairs of Wards, where available, for a period of 5 years; 5. convene and manage the General Assembly of the Court; 6. may chair formations of all chambers, where available, subject to the principle of random selection in the division of cases; 7. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court and organise the work of the individual services; 8. Call the Judges of the Administrative Court to discuss the report under point 8. 13 and requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions or interpretation decrees; 9. Commander of the Judges, under the terms of Article 9. 87; 10. manage and control the work of judicial assistants; 11. approve the establishment schedule of the administration of the court after its discussion by the General Assembly of the Administrative Court; 12. organize the publication of the acts of the court on the website of the administrative court on the Internet subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 13. prepare an annual report on the activities of the court and submit it to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court by the end of February for inclusion in the annual report; 14. at the end of each six-month period, provide the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council with summary information on the formation, movement and closing of cases, as well as on the final revocation of acts by the higher courts; 15. publish the annual report on the activities of the court on the website of the administrative court on the Internet within one month of its submission to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court; 16. provide information, references and statistics in electronic form by models and within time limits established by the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, and provide them to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice; 17. in accordance with the rules adopted determines the workload under art. 92, para. 2, p. 8..................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements under paragraphs 30, 31 and 32? Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am proposing: in § 30 by importer, which becomes § 37, in para. 2 to drop points 2, 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u179	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making the editorial proposal, which we have already adopted twice in respect of § 30 by importer, otherwise numbered as § 37, renumbered by the Commission in respect of para. 2, c. 2 to drop the second............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u181	Maybe she's out. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the proposal made by Mr. Kazak, and I complement the proposal. 8 drop out. In this case, the General Assembly is entrusted with non-military administrative and technical functions, which will practically lead to court dysfunction. Organizational functions, prescriptions of health authorities. I'm making an offer, and so on. 8 of § 30 by importer drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u183	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Statements on these three paragraphs? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal, which is not supported by the Committee on § 30 by importer. They voted 91 MPs: 10, against 50, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposals made in this House: firstly, the proposal of the National Representative Chetin Kazak in § 30 by importer, in para. 2 to drop points 2, 3 and 5. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 58, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in the Chamber under § 30 by importer in para. 2, p. The 2 second words may be dropped. 90 MPs voted: 80, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Philip Popov in § 30 by importer to drop the points 2, 3, 5 and 8 in para. 2. They voted 98 MPs: 12, against 61, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of § 30 by importer, which becomes § 37 in the version of the Commission, together with the adopted proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov. They voted 102 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We shall vote on the entry of § 31 by importer in the version of the Commission and on the text of § 32 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. We continue with § 33 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 41. According to § 35 there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev and a group of Members of the National The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u185	Statements under paragraphs 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37? There aren't any. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs under § 35, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 6, against 61, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for Anblock § 33 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 40; § 34 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 41; § 35, which becomes § 42 by the Commission; § 36 by importer, which becomes § 43 and § 37 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 44. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Next is § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u186	Under § 38, there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 106. 1 is amended The President of the Court of Appeal shall exercise a general organisational and administrative authority of the Court of Appeal by: 1. represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organize the work of the judges; 3. together with its alternates, propose to the General Assembly the distribution of judges by compartment, where available; 4. determine, on a proposal from the General Assembly, the Chairs of Wards, where available, for a period of 5 years; 5. convene and manage the General Assembly of the Court; 6. may chair formations from all departments, subject to the principle of random selection in the division of cases; 7. carry out checks of the organisation of the activities of the judges of the district courts of its judicial area to a Judge of the Court of Appeal; 8. convene the Judges of the Court of Appeal and of the District Courts for discussion of the report under paragraph 8. 14, the reports of the checks and requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation orders; 9. Commander of the Judges under the terms of Article 9. 107; 10. analyse and summarize the caselaw of the Court of Appeal and the district courts of the relevant judicial area; 11. manage and control the work of the judicial assistants; 12. approve the establishment plan of the administration of the court after its discussion by the General Assembly of the Court of Appeal; 13. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court and organise the work of the individual services; 14. draw up an annual report on the activities of the Court of Appeal, the district courts and the regional courts in its judicial area and make it available to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation for inclusion in the annual report by 31 March; 15. organize the publication of the acts of the court on the website of the Board of Appeal on the Internet, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 16. publish the annual report on the activities of the court on the website of the Court of Appeal on the Internet within one month of its submission to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 17. provide information, references and statistics in electronic form by models and within time limits established by the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, and provide them to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice; 18. in accordance with the rules adopted by the General Assembly determine the workload. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 47. Under § 41, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov in accordance with Article 41. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 3 shall be added at the end, subject to the principle of random selection in the distribution of cases, without urging the rapporteur. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u187	We are discussing paragraphs 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42. Are there any speeches? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. We are voting for § 38, which becomes § 45 in the version of the Commission; § 39, which becomes § 46 by importer, supported by the Commission; § 40, which becomes § 47 by importer; § 41, which becomes § 48 in the version of the Commission; § 42 by importer, which becomes § 49 by importer. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u188	Under § 43, there is a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: Paragraph 43 is amended as follows: ..................................................... Article 111 is amended as follows: Art. 111. (1) The Supreme Court of Cassation shall consist of all judges. (2) The Plenum: 1. Provides an opinion on the composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of the compartments; 2. discusses each year the President's report on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 3. Provides an opinion on bills relating to the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 4. Adopts opinions on constitutional matters to which the Supreme Court of Cassation is a party; 5. It shall adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities; 6. adopt rules for the work of the general meetings of the civil, criminal and commercial college; 7. It shall adopt rules for determining the workload of the alternates of the President of the Court and of the Chairs of wards. (3) The Tribunal of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall be convened by the President or at the request of at least one third of all Judges. (4) The Supreme Court of Cassation shall be held if more than half of all judges are present and shall adopt a decision by a majority of more than half of the Judges present. (5) The Plenum may not examine and adopt decisions on matters relating to the organisation of the court's activities which fall within the jurisdiction of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 2 and does not support it in the remainder: "3." of which: 4 the word "supposed" is replaced by the word "supplied" 4. 5 the words of the President of the Court shall be dismissed and the words of his officers shall become the alternates of the President of the Court. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 50: 50. Article 111 is amended as follows: Art. 111. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall consist of all Judges, except the Comandirs. (2) The Supreme Court of Cassation shall: 1. may hear candidates for the President of the Court and may give an opinion on the candidates; 2. determine the composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of the compartments; 3. hear the candidates proposed by the President of the Court for the appointment of alternates and may express an opinion on the proposals; 4. listen to candidates for Chairs of Wards; 5. adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court, of his alternates, of the Chairs of Wards, of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, of those who are entrusted with carrying out organisational functions as well as in the case of a prescription of the health authorities; 6. give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on bills relating to the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 7. adopt opinions on constitutional matters in which the Supreme Court of Cassation is constituted as a party; 8. discuss and adopt the Chairman's annual report on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 9. adopt internal rules for the organization of its activities. (3) The Supreme Court of Cassation shall adopt rules for the work of the general meetings of the civil, criminal and commercial college. (4) The Tribunal of the Supreme Court of Cassation may express opinions on matters relating to the organisation of the court's activities, which are within the competence of the President, on a proposal made by not less than one third of the Judges. (5) The Tribunal of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall be convened by the President or at the request of not less than one third of all Judges. (6) A sitting of the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall be held if more than half of all judges are present. Decisions shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of the Judges present. (7) Specialisation of the compartments of matter may be determined by the President of the Court where it is necessary to ensure that cases are dealt with within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u189	Thank you. Under § 43, there are several suggestions. Are there any speeches? Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! This paragraph is in the line of the overall strategy pursued by the heads of the judicial authorities, the heads of the judicial authorities, at the expense of newly established non-personalized collective bodies, called the General Boards, who will already have the opportunity to bend the arms and instruments, to blam, veto all management organizational-administrative and any other decision of the administrative supervisor, in the case of the chairman of one of the two supreme judicial bodies, the Supreme Court of Cassation. Despite the negative opinion of the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court of Cassation made in the Commission, unfortunately, colleagues from the Committee on Legal Affairs have not listened to the legitimate objections, criticisms and remarks that have been made. They preferred to listen to the radical ideas and proposals of judges, magistrates who, first of all, are not at this level, have never reached the Court of Cassation, much less have any management experience as administrative leaders and are proposed here in this paragraph to be adopted texts that are totally, as I said, devoid of authority, of the status of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, who, if these texts are adopted, will already be a silent letter, will be one of all judges, each of his initiative, any decision of his will be tainted, and his alternates will already feel no substitute, but representatives of this or that group of judges in the Supreme Court of Cassation. The reports he will draw up will be vetoed by the Supreme Court of Cassation. In the slightest disagreement, for example, if he points out that in a college cases are not dealt with within the required time limits or make another unholy finding, this finding, through the possibility of vetoing, will have to withdraw it, his hands will be twisted on the part of the captivity. My fellow Members, I hope that we still understand what we are doing. Do we also want to turn the Supreme Court of Cassation into a field of dualism and even worse of chaos, of powerlessness, of opposition within groups, groups and representatives of this or that word organization? If this is what we're after, let's accept these texts, but if we still have at least a little bit of reason left, I suggest you support dropping out in para. 2 of art. 111, the letters 1, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u191	Wait, which paragraph, Mr. Kazak?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u192	This paragraph, which I am discussing, § 43, which becomes § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u193	The final editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u194	Yes, the final version of the Commission. Drop points 1, 3 and 4, and para. 4. Alinea 4, which is in a blatant contradiction with the division of powers, after allowing the captivity to even interfere in the reserved territory of the President, what are we talking about?! Everything else is unnecessary now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u195	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kazak, it is true that repetition is a mother of knowledge, but you have made the same statement you have made three or four times in this sitting, and not to mention a Legal Committee when we listened to this statement several times. Mr. Kazak, you are trying to crack a spirit of the amendments to the Judicial Law, a logic that was also set by the Judicial Reform Strategy, namely to strengthen the independence of the court, to strengthen the self-government of the judiciary and the judiciary in such a way that the President really becomes first between equals, the President becomes the person who administers and organises the work of the court concerned. He's administrating and organizing! These proposals, which are also available here with regard to the Supreme Court of Cassation, have also been made with regard to the Supreme Administrative Court, with regard to the District and Regional Court of Justice, that is precisely what the President is concerned with being supervised within the limits of his powers by a General Assembly of Judges, by a meeting which brings together all judges who take important decisions within the court concerned. So let us still follow the strategy that you yourself voted on. You yourself have agreed to have a stronger self-government of the court. Your attempt to protect the status quo will be doomed to failure. Please stop trying to protect what we're currently seeing, what we were watching and when the case happened, when the case happened with Vladimira Yaneva. Let us try to make a real judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u197	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Second line? I won't. Mr. Kazak for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Delchev, I am trying to draw your attention to the huge problem that we are creating by adopting similar kinds of texts, you are talking to me about the lanish snow. Mr. Delchev, in my first speech, I asked the question: where in the Strategy, where in the amendments to the Constitution have we recorded the introduction of such a kind of judicial self-government, the self-government of the independent judiciary, that is to say its protection against external influences and interference, that is to say its rise as a truly independent power? And what you are introducing here in the form of judicial self-government within the judiciary is a huge difference. What you are proposing, neither of us has signed, nor supported, nor has ever been on the agenda as a topic. This has now emerged with this Bill. And I hope you realize quickly what a big mistake you're making. I would like to address Mr. Slavov, who is about to speak. If Mr. Vladislav Slavov, when he was chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, had he then ruled the Supreme Administrative Court with such powers of the plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court, I do not know whether he would be happy and satisfied with such a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u199	Thank you. Mr. Slavov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u200	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I would like to make an editorial proposal which corresponds to the previous paragraphs already adopted by the Chamber, namely by Paragraph 50 of the Commission in para. 2, p. 1 to fall the first... can become the .. listen to the candidates for the President of the Court and can express an opinion on the applicants............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I cannot say a few more things, honourable Members, because we are voting on a very important paragraph, we are again commenting on the judicial self-government. Some things are repeated that have been said, but the pre-speakers, unfortunately, have speculated again, or at least some of them have tried to speculate, with what is judgely self-government, should it be written in the Constitution or its place in the Law. He definitely belongs in the Law. I cannot understand here and these notes, which were made in relation to the captivity by one of the pre-speakers, that almost the captivity should not have any authority and be something like a silent letter. First, my fellow Member, the plenary is obviously composed of magistrates, and it is highly qualified magistrates, with many years of experience. And it is logical, and of course, to hear their opinion, as the importer has suggested on many of the points that here inexplicably why a colleague has offered to drop out. The strange thing is that if you look at the current provision of art. 111, para. 1 in t. 1, colleagues, you will see that at the moment the plenary determines the composition of the colleges and the compositions of the wards, that is, nothing different. What is added is to have the opportunity to listen to candidates for President, to listen to the proposals for Vice-Presidents and so on. In other words, what is more natural than that of a captivity, a general assembly of judges to listen to their proposal for an administrative leader, and this hearing to happen right there and not in the Sarai of Boyana? Personally, I think it should happen in front of the general meeting. Obviously, some colleagues are of a different opinion and are concerned by such publicity and such a hearing, but I urge you to support the texts of an importer, including this editorial amendment that I am doing, and to really stick to what we have already accepted so far for the lower instances. What I'm graduating with, again with this colleague, who replicated me a little weirdly and a little bit off the subject, but I want to tell him that for the period you were talking about, there wasn't a single seconded judge in the Supreme Administrative Court. Let him draw his conclusions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u201	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u202	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, I did not accidentally ask you this question, as I would be interested to hear the opinion of Mr. Vladislav Slavov whether these proposals are appropriate, whether he would agree that the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Supreme Administrative Court should be able to be tainted in any way possible, that their decisions should be vetoed, even on the most elementary issues to be heard, called up and rejected their annual reports and so on. I am very interested to hear the opinion of people who have still led the Supreme Court, whether it is appropriate or not, regardless of what judges participate in the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Supreme Administrative Court. And regarding the administration, dear Mr. Slavov, ask Mr. Vladislav Slavov, when Ivan Kostov was Prime Minister, whether the administration in the judiciary, including at its highest levels, was not carried out in Dragalevtsi in a house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u203	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Second line? Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Slavov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u204	Dear Mr. Kazak, dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kazak, listening to you, it's as if all roads lead not to the Boyan Sarai, but to Dragalevtsi. That's the kind of conclusion a man can draw. But obviously you like it, I see that you are applauding me literally from a place, apparently the roads for you must lead to the Sarai. But, colleagues, it is unacceptable for a hearing to happen in an environment that is not public, not in front of the general meeting, at all on suspicion of backstage and other interventions. So here I absolutely support the text of the importer and call on all of us to support it. Otherwise, Mr. Kazak, all these questions you ask to third parties, you could have done so and asked them yourself if you had attended the task force. There was a representative of the Union of Lawyers and many other organisations, including the people you are quoting. Why didn't you come and ask them there? There's obviously no answer from the auditorium. So that's my recommendation. Come to working groups, and more often to the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u205	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The debate continues. Any other speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. There are several texts that we will vote on this paragraph. First of all, we are voting on the proposal of Parliamentary Representative Chetin Kazak, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 9 against 58, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the unsupported part of the proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. It is not supported by the Commission. Voting mode. They voted 94 MPs: 13 against 23, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal made in the Chamber by the National Representative Chetin Kazak for dropping points 1, 3 and 4 of para. 2 of the version proposed by the Commission of § 43, which becomes § 50. [[Heckling]] And al. 4. Vote 100 MPs: 8 against 60 abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made in the Chamber of Members of the National Assembly Mr. Slavov in para. 2 point 1 of § 43 by importer, which becomes § 50, the first expression may fall. Vote 94 MPs: 75 against 6, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the text of § 43 by importer, which becomes § 50 in the version of the Commission with the correction made and adopted by the Chamber of National Representative Petar Slavov. They voted 99 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u206	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the plenary session at 19:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u207	A counteroffer? Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have a week ahead of us. There's not much of a load in the legislative program anyway...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u209	When you see the program for tomorrow and the rest, Mr. Kazak, you'll say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u210	I feel that my colleagues already want to rest, so let's not overdo it with the stahanovian effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u211	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov to extend the plenary session today until 7 p.m. They voted 102 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u212	Proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission ................................................ Article 112 is amended as follows: Art. 112. (1) The General Assembly of each College shall be composed of the Judges therein. (2) The General Assembly of the Civil and Commercial Colleges shall consist of the Judges of the two Colleges. (3) The General Assembly of each College shall be held if at least two thirds of the Judges of the College are present and shall adopt decisions by a majority of more than half of the Judges present. (4) The seconded Judges shall participate with voting rights. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end by participating without voting rights and a sentence shall be created second: the Commandered Judges shall participate with voting rights in the General Assembly of the College concerned in the issuing of interpretation decisions. 2. In para. 2 shall be added at the end, except for those who are posted. 3. In para. 4 after the words. 110, t. The words "Citizen' and "Citizen' are replaced by the corresponding "Citizen' and "Citizen' are replaced by the words "Citizen'. 4. The creation of para. 5. The Judge-in-Office shall participate with a vote in the General meetings of the Court of Justice from which they are seconded. Paragraph 45. Proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: "Paragraph 45" is amended as follows: "Paragraph 45."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u213	Aren't you going to withdraw it, Mr. Kazak? It's one page reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u214	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u215	"Paragraph 45 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 114 is amended as follows: Art. 114. (1) The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation: 1. carry out organisational management of the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation and represent it; 2. calls and conducts the meetings of the General Assembly of Colleges and the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation or entrusts it to its alternates; 3. Determines the composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of compartments 4. It shall make requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees; 5. together with its alternates, propose to the plenary the division of judges by colleges and wards; 6. He may preside over formations from all departments; 7. carry out checks on the organisation of the activities of the Judges of the Appeals Courts to a Judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 8. calls the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Courts of Appeal to discuss the reports of the checks; 9. Manage and supervise personally or entrust the control and organisation of the work of judicial assistants; 10. Judge-in-command under the conditions of art. 115; 11. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court; 12. prepare an annual report on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation and publish it on the website of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the Internet within one month of its establishment; 13. Organize the publication of the acts of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the website of the Court of Justice on the Internet; 14. Organize the publication of a monthly newsletter of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 15. It shall designate the Chairs of the divisions for a period of not more than four years. (2) The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall draw up a summary annual report on the application of the Law and the activities of the courts, with the exception of administrative courts, and shall submit it to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council by 30 April. (3) Within 30 days of the report under para. 1 t. 12 The National Assembly, in the presence of the members of the Supreme Court of Cassation, shall hear. In the hearing, members of the Council and the Members of the National Assembly may put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report. (4) The orders of the President in relation to the organisation of the work of the court shall be binding on all Judges and servants therein. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 45, Article 45 is replaced by the following: 114, para. 1: 1. in t. 5 the following amendments shall be made: It's five o'clock. Offers the Plenum of the Supreme Court of Cassation the distribution of judges by colleges and wards; 2. the text of t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. Defines the chairmen of wards among the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation for a period of five years and proposes the proposals made to the Plenum for approval. In the event that the Plenum does not approve the proposals made, the President shall make a new reasoned proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The President of the Supreme Court of Cassation shall carry out a general organizational and administrative authority of the Supreme Court of Cassation, such as: 1. represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organize the work of the judges; 3. convene and manage the meetings of the General Assembly of Colleges and the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation or entrust this to its alternates; 4. make proposals for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees; 5. together with its alternates shall propose to the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation the distribution of judges by colleges and wards; 6. determine the presidents of the wards among the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation for a period of 5 years; 7. preside over formations in the cases determined by law and may chair formations from all departments, subject to the principle of random selection in the division of cases, without displaceing the rapporteur; 8. Commander of the Judges under the terms of Article 8. 115; 9. carry out checks of the organisation of the activities of the Judges of the Courts of Appeal to a Judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 10. convene the Judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Courts of Appeal to discuss the reports of the checks; 11. manage and control the work of the judicial assistants; 12. approve the establishment schedule of the administration of the court; 13. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court; 14. at the end of each six-month period prepare and provide to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, to the Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice summary information on the formation, movement and closing of cases; 15. prepare an annual report on the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation and publish it on the website of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the Internet within one month of its establishment; 16. organize the publication of the acts of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the court's website, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 17. organize the publication of a monthly newsletter of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 18. in accordance with the rules adopted determines the workload of art. 111, para. 2, p. 5. 2. A new para is being created. 3 and para. 4. Within 14 days of the report under para. 2 The Supreme Judicial Council shall hear the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. During the hearing, members of the Council may also put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation answers. (4) The Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the National Assembly the report under para. 2 to 31 May. The report shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In the discussion of the report, the Members of the National Assembly may also put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation is responsible. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u216	Statements, colleagues, on the reported proposals? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u217	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making an editorial proposal in § 44, in art. 112 in respect of para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u218	On the report it became § 51, p. 57. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u219	I propose that the Commanders participate without the right to vote. Colleagues, we have no reason to share the judges in the relevant courts in this way, all the more so that we have extended the period of secondment far enough. There's no way a magistrate who's assigned to another court feels like he's being planted in a cuckoo's nest and has nothing to do with the work of this court. He is either a full participant in the work of the General Assembly or he is not. Otherwise he will not participate at all in the general meetings, be assured. That's what we discussed with the Legal Committee. I ask that you put this motion to the vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u220	Would you like to give a written version or at least exactly what it should say?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u221	Dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u222	Drop the whole first sentence and propose to create a sentence second?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u224	You are proposing the text in para. 1 is finally added by participating without law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u225	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u226	Instead of the "no," the "vote-right-of-vote" preposition. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u227	Madam President, honourable Members! Let me get this straight. In the texts adopted next, it will become clear that the posting is in principle a very limited exception and the Judges who are seconded are entitled to participate in the general meetings of the courts from which they are seconded. So here it is absolutely inappropriate to change the text proposed by the Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u228	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Georgiev? You won't use it. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I first put to the vote Mr. Chetin Kazak's proposal to amend § 44 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 10, Against 56, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. In § 51, in the numbering and version of the Commission, I put to the vote Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal for changes in art. 112, para. 1, finally, the text to be added instead of the non-voting text to be read with the right to vote. We vote on Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal. They voted 91 MPs: for 7, against 66, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 51 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Chetin Kazak under § 45 by importer. The Commission does not support it. Vote 94 MPs: 18, against 60, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 92 MPs: 19 against 35, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the version of § 45 by importer, which becomes § 52 by the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 89 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u229	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 53. According to § 47 the proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 2 shall be added at the end, subject to the principle of random selection in the distribution of cases, without urging the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u230	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 53 and 54 on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u231	Under § 48, a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: "Paragraph 48 is amended as follows: ............... 48............................................................... Article 119 is amended as follows: Art. 119. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court shall consist of all Judges. (2) The Plenum: 1. give an opinion on the composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of the compartments; 2. discusses every year the report of the President on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court; 3. deliver an opinion on bills relating to the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court; 4. adopt opinions on constitutional matters in which the Supreme Administrative Court is a party; 5. adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities; 6. adopt rules for the work of the general meetings of the relevant colleges; 7. adopt rules for determining the workload of the alternates of the President of the Court and the Chairs of wards. (3) The Office of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be convened by the President or at the request of at least one third of all Judges. (4) The Supreme Administrative Court shall be held if more than half of all Judges are present and shall adopt a decision by a majority of more than half of the Judges present. (5) The Plenum may not examine and adopt decisions on matters relating to the organisation of the court's activities which fall within the competence of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal referred to in points 1 and 2 and shall not support it under points 3 and 4: "3." of which: 4 the word "supposed' is replaced by the word "supplied'; 4. 5 the words of the President of the Court shall be dismissed and the words of his....................................... the alternates of the President of the Court........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... Article 119 is amended as follows: Art. 119. (1) The Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court shall consist of all Judges, except those seconded. (2) The Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court: 1. may hear candidates for the President of the Court and may give an opinion on the candidates; 2. determine the number and composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of the compartments; 3. hear the candidates proposed by the President of the Court for the appointment of alternates and may express an opinion on the proposals; 4. listen to candidates for Chairs of Wards; 5. adopt rules for determining the workload of the President of the Court, of his alternates, of the Chairs of Wards, of the Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, of those who are entrusted with carrying out organisational functions, and in the case of a prescription of the health authorities; 6. give opinions to the Council of Ministers and to the National Assembly on bills relating to the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court; 7. adopt opinions on constitutional matters in which the Supreme Administrative Court is constituted as a party; 8. discuss and adopt the Chairman's annual report on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court; 9. adopt rules for the work of the general meetings of the relevant colleges; 10. adopt internal rules for the organisation of its activities. (3) The Office of the Supreme Administrative Court may express opinions on matters relating to the organisation of the court's activities, which are within the competence of the President, on a proposal made by not less than one third of the Judges. (4) The term of office of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be convened by the President or at the request of not less than one third of all Judges. (5) A meeting of the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be held if more than half of all judges are present. Decisions shall be adopted by a majority of more than half of the Judges present. (6) Specialisation of the compartments of matter may be determined by the President of the Court where it is necessary to ensure that cases are dealt with within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u232	Statements? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u233	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, with the same arguments that I have just defended my position on the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation, I would like to make a proposal to drop out in para. 2 of art. 119 of points 1, 3 and 4, and also to cancel para. 3. For me, these proposals are completely contrary to what was envisaged as a reform of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u234	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u235	Madam President, honourable Members! An editorial proposal in Paragraph 55 of the Commission, as we have just adopted for the Supreme Court of Cassation, should also be here in para. 2, p. 1 the first one may fall and become: The Supreme Administrative Court shall: 1. hear candidates for the President of the Court and may express an opinion on the applications; Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u236	Any other MPs? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u237	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making an offer in § 55. Paragraph 119. Six down. In practice, it introduces an exception because I ask: when is it not necessary for cases to be dealt with within a reasonable time?! They must always be considered within a reasonable period of time. An exception is made here, which I think is absolutely inappropriate. I therefore propose that this paragraph be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u238	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal under § 48. The Commission does not support it. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 11 against 53, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Nikiforov's proposal and a group in the part where the Commission does not support him and it is referred to in points 3 and 4. In the other two points We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 91 MPs: 15 against 31, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Is that a rewording, Mr. Kirilov? We are talking about a proposal by Luchezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. I have just read the results of the vote on Mr. Nikiforov's proposal and a group in the unsupported section. We are now just moving on to the text of the Commission and the procedural proposals made on it. Firstly, I vote on Mr Kazak's proposal in the version of the Commission for § 55. He's offering from para. 2, p. 1, 3 and 4, as well as para. 3. We vote on Mr. Kazak's proposal. Vote 91 MPs: 8 against 70 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Popov's proposal. He's offering para. 6 to § 55 drop. Vote 97 MPs: 59, against 23, abstention 15. The proposal is not accepted as the quorum is 62 votes. Revoting is Mr. Popov's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u239	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Apparently, there was a commotion in the room, maybe the coworkers didn't understand. This is a sensible proposal should not be an exception that cases should then be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u240	Mr. Popov, the commotion in the Chamber is because we have already voted texts that have mirrored this one. You didn't make an offer there, so we're out of the system. I'm not arguing about her precision. That's the problem. Revoting, coworkers. They voted 107 MPs: 15 against 56, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Slavov's latest editorial proposal, which he proposes in art. 119, para. 2, p. 1 to drop the text........................................................................................................... listen to candidates for chairman...... and so on. We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 97 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the full version of § 55, according to Mr. Slavov's recent amendment. Vote 108 MPs: 99 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u241	Thank you, Madam President. The system started causing problems, it's blocking. Apparently, the system's tired, but not the MPs. [[Radio.]] However, in order to allow the system a little rest on behalf of the parliamentary group, I am proposing a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u242	What vacation, Mr. Kazak? How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u243	Half an hour off. As long as you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u244	Fifteen minutes off. We'll continue at 4:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u245	Guys, break time's up. The hearing is ongoing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u246	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Paragraph 49. Proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: The following text is added in the Annex to Implementing ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 120 is amended as follows: Art. 120. (1) The General Assembly of the Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court shall meet if at least two thirds of them are present. The decisions shall be taken by simple majority and in the case of interpretation decisions by simple majority of the total number of judges. (2) The General Assembly of each College shall be composed of the Judges therein. (3) The General Assembly of the College shall be held if at least two thirds of the Judges of the College are present. Decisions shall be taken by a simple majority. (4) The seconded Judges shall participate with a vote in the General Assembly of the College concerned and in the General Assembly of the Court to which they are seconded. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 the following additions are made: Here, Madam President, a technical error has been made. There are only additions. The words..... "1." In para. 1 shall be added at the end by participating without voting rights and a sentence shall be created second: the Commandered Judges shall participate with voting rights in the General Assembly of the College concerned when making interpretation decisions. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Judge-in-Chiefs shall participate with a vote in the general meetings of the Court of Justice from which they are seconded. Paragraph 50. Proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: the following point is inserted after point 13a (Commission .................................................................................. Article 122 is amended as follows: Art. 122. (1) The President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall: 1. carry out organisational management of the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and represent it; 2. convene and manage the meetings of the General Assembly of Colleges and the plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court or entrust this to its alternates; 3. determine the composition of the colleges and the number and compositions of the compartments; 4. make requests for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees; 5. together with its alternates shall propose to the plenary the distribution of judges by colleges and wards; 6. may chair formations from all departments; 7. carry out personal or assign to a Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court checks on the organisation of the activities of the Judges of the Administrative Courts; 8. convene the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and the administrative courts to discuss the reports of the checks; 9. directs and controls personally or entrusts the control and organisation of the work of the judicial assistants; 10. Judge-in-command under the terms of Article 10. 123; 11. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court; 12. prepare an annual report on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and publish it on the website of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the Internet within one month of its establishment; The Supreme Court of Cassation has recorded colleague Chetin Kazak. "13." organise the publication of the acts of the Supreme Court of Cassation on the website of the Court of Justice on the Internet; The Supreme Court of Cassation recorded it again, apparently meant administrative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u247	Report what he wrote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u248	It's 14 years old. organise the publication of a monthly newsletter of the Supreme Court of Cassation; 15. determine the Chairs of the wards for a period of not more than four years. (2) The President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall draw up a summary annual report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts, with the exception of administrative courts, and shall submit it to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council by 30 April. (3) Within 30 days of the report under para. 1, t. 12 The National Assembly, in the presence of the members of the SJC, shall hear the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. During the hearing, members of the Council and the Members of the National Assembly may put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report. (4) The orders of the President in relation to the organisation of the work of the court shall be binding on all Judges and servants therein. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 50, Art. 122, para. 1: 1. 5 is amended as follows: He proposed to the Plenum of the Supreme Administrative Court the distribution of judges by colleges and wards. 2. t. 6 is amended as follows: "Determining the Presidents of wards among the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court for a period of five years and proposing to the Plenum for approval the proposals made. In the event that the Plenum does not approve the proposals made, the President shall make a new reasoned proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The President of the Supreme Administrative Court shall exercise a general organisational and administrative authority of the Supreme Administrative Court by: 1. represent the court as a legal person and body of the judiciary; 2. organize the work of the judges; 3. convene and manage the meetings of the General Assembly of Colleges and the plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court or entrust this to its alternates; 4. make proposals for the adoption of interpretation decisions and interpretation decrees; 5. together with its alternates shall propose at the plenary of the Supreme Administrative Court the distribution of judges by colleges and wards; 6. designate the presidents of the wards among the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court for a period of 5 years; 7. may chair formations from all departments, subject to the principle of random selection in the distribution of cases, without replacing the rapporteur; 8. Commander of the Judges under the terms of Article 8. 123; 9. carry out personal or assign to a Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court checks on the organisation of the activities of the Judges of the Administrative Courts; 10. convene the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and the administrative courts to discuss the reports of the checks; 11. manage and control the work of the judicial assistants; 12. approve the establishment schedule of the administration of the court; 13. appoint and dismiss the officers of the court; 14. at the end of each six-month period prepare and provide to the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council, to the Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council and to the Minister of Justice summary information on the formation, movement and closing of cases; 15. prepare an annual report on the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and publish it on the website of the Supreme Administrative Court within one month of its establishment; 16. organize the publication of the acts of the Supreme Administrative Court on the website of the Court, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act; 17. organize the publication of a monthly newsletter of the Supreme Administrative Court; 18. in accordance with the rules adopted determines the workload of art. 119, para. 2, p. 5. 2. A new para is being created. 3 and para. 4. Within 14 days of the report under para. 2 The Supreme Judicial Council shall hear the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. During the hearing, members of the Council may also put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Administrative Court is responsible. (4) The Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the National Assembly the report under para. 2 to 31 May. The report shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard the President of the Supreme Administrative Court. In the discussion of the report, the Members of the National Assembly may also put written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report to which the President of the Supreme Administrative Court is responsible. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u249	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u250	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a very small editorial proposal. Paragraph 57 for Art. 122, t. 1 for para. 1 of art. 122, c. 15 on the Commission's report, I propose a one-month period to be replaced by a one-year period. Understand, there is no point in giving a one-month period to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court to publish a report on the website. What does he need this one-month term for? Let it be one week, it is perfectly reasonable, so I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u251	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? There are no other willing ones. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal under § 49 to an importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 101 MPs: for 5, against 61, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 56 in the version of the Commission, specifying that in art. 120 the following additions are made. [[Relations from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov.]] It's in the next text, please! You're two pages ahead. Colleagues, we are voting in the version of § 56 on the Commission's proposal. Voted 103 MPs: 98 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposals under § 50 by importer. The Commission does not support them. They voted 102 MPs: 13, against 60, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Mr. Nikiforov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 18, against 31, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We move on to § 57 of the Commission. On it was received a proposal from Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, who proposes in this section. 15th para. 1 of art. 122, instead of a one-month period, to be a one-month period. They voted 97 MPs: 14 against 56, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 57 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u252	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." the Criminal, Civil and Commercial College of the Supreme Court of Cassation; b) Previous t. 3 and 4 become respectively t. 4 and 5. 2. In para. 2 after the words of the two debtors, a comma shall be placed and added, including those who are posted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u253	Statements under paragraphs 58 and 59 on the report? I won't. Anblock, we vote both texts. Vote 105 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u254	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: Paragraph 52a is inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 the following amendments shall be made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: The degree of workload of the reporters judges shall be reduced by the order under para. 1 and 2 in accordance with the complexity of the interpretation case. 2. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u255	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it, and it is about creating a new paragraph. Vote 95 MPs: 19 against 21 abstention 55. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u256	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 61. Under § 55, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev in accordance with Article 55. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: In § 55, the words "in" shall be replaced by "in" and "in" shall be replaced by the words "in" and "in" shall be replaced by the words "in" and "in" shall The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 55, which shall become § 62. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134 para. 3 is amended as The jury shall meet at a hearing in representative clothing. The jury is sitting at a court hearing in a military uniform. Under § 56, there is a proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u257	Statements under paragraphs 60, 61 and 62 in the version of the Commission and § 63 by importer? I won't. We vote on paragraphs 60 to 63, including the Commission's report. Vote 104 MPs: for 101, against 2, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u258	According to § 57 the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: ...... 57............................................................... New content of art. 138, c. 7 after the comma, after the word "the Prosecutor's Office" is added, including by requiring information. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 64, in c. 5 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 8 words are replaced by the ministers and the heads of others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u259	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 110 MPs: 11 against 58, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission proposal, which supports the text of the importer for § 57 with specific instructions. We are voting § 64 on a proposal from the Commission in its report. Vote 107 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u260	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 138a: Art. 138a. (1) The Prosecutor-General shall submit annually by 30 April to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council an annual report on the enforcement of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and of the investigating authorities and shall publish it on the website of the Prosecutor's Office. (2) At the request of the National Assembly or at its own initiative, the Prosecutor General shall submit to the National Assembly and other reports on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the enforcement of the law, the countering of crime and the realization of criminal policy. (3) Within 14 days of the report under para. 1 The Supreme Judicial Council shall listen to the Attorney General. During the hearing, members of the Council may also ask written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the report to which the Prosecutor General responds. (4) The Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the National Assembly the report under para. May 1st to 31st. The reports under para. 1 and 2 are discussed after the National Assembly has listened to the Attorney General. In the discussion of the reports, Members of the National Assembly may also raise written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs regarding the reports to which the Prosecutor General responded.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u261	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement is in connection with para. 4 of the discussions § 65. To draw attention again for the first time to the reports presented by the Prosecutor General to the National Assembly to put written questions by citizens, institutions, NGOs in relation to the reports presented by the Prosecutor General. And he has to answer. I would like us to think about this... whether this mechanism, which too closely brings the Chief Prosecutor's activities closer to the parliamentary control exercised over the government, is appropriate because this will most likely be defined sensitive but specific cases, cases that have been presented. Some of them may also have judicial decisions or have been delivered by the prosecution without them reaching a judicial stage. If these questions are considered so important, why should they not be put on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly, and should not the Members of the National Assembly be any mailmen to reaffirm these questions raised by other persons who have no direct bearing on these matters between the Prosecutor General and the Parliament? I ask this question because we have not adopted the parliamentary model of the prosecution's management. Such a period was in Bulgaria. I'm not commenting now on whether he's successful or not. If parliament were to elect the Attorney General, he could probably make a much greater requirement to him and to ask him all sorts of questions to which he would answer, but, again, I say, making Parliament a kind of Ombudsman for the prosecution's activities is a very delicate matter, because the limits to which it can reach are not defined. If such questions are allowed, why should they only be written and not verbally entered into this communication on the occasion of the reports? For this reason, I would like to hear other arguments. In my case, I'm overpowering the reservations to this proposal. It's more like an al. Four down. In any case, this is not a motive to leave the prosecution's activities unattended, but I believe that the reports, not only annual, but on certain subjects that Parliament may require of the Prosecutor General, are an appropriate platform in which very serious discussions can take place and including a reasoned claim to the prosecution's activities. The examination of cases, I say again, not so much by the direct responsibility of the MPs who place them, but only by doing a service to other complainants to be imported and then received through them the answers to the affected persons themselves, I think does not increase the responsibility for communication between the Prosecutor General and the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u263	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? Mr. Svilen Ivanov, first line, Mr. Slavov, second line. The third one is still vacant.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, in a nutshell of the issue raised. One of the hottest recommended changes by the European authorities is precisely this: citizens and organizations have the right to ask questions. This is naturally done through lawmakers and would affect the assessment of the activities in the judiciary by the European institutions. That's why it's in the text. I think that's where it should stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u265	Mr. Slavov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u266	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I hope that I have understood you correctly and your proposal is not in the direction that there is no accountability of the prosecution. I hope that you also support accountability and that it can be implemented, including by the citizens through the MPs, by putting together questions in writing, something that is written in our Rules. I suppose many people write to your parliamentary group, as they write to ours, and there is nothing wrong with putting the MPs in this procedure. But I would like to draw your attention to something else very important that these proposals, these changes, correspond to the amendments to the Constitution that we have made, the so-called last Fifth Amendment. To understand me better, take the case with KTB, on which many people write to you and want more information about what is happening with this investigation after more than two years. Here is a good opportunity, as we have made a draft decision, to listen to the Attorney General on the implementation of the CCB case law and to really find out where the investigation is going, will there be charges, will there be liability, where the money went and so on. I hope that by voting on it, God forbid, at the very beginning of the autumn session, and you on the left will support us, and there will be a hearing on this so important subject. This will be a practical realization of the procedure that has been signed here. I suppose many citizens will also ask questions and we will be able to ask them in writing so that the Attorney General can prepare himself properly and specifically on any matter, not to answer in general and by heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u267	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u268	Mr. Ivanov, in your reply you do not oppose arguments in substance, but you oppose some authority, certain European circles that have suggested or recommended this idea. In my opinion, the source of the proposal is not an argument in itself in support of the idea, but from Europe come all sorts of ideas. If we just refer to the direction from which the wind blows, we will probably constantly make changes, in some cases mutually exclusive, as there will always be someone from outside or from above who tells us what to do ourselves. Regarding Mr. Slavov's line, she's on the ground. The comparison here, in my opinion, makes what you are asking, saying that we can raise questions to representatives of the executive, to refer questions raised by citizens. Then, in order to complete this political-logical structure, let us elect the chief prosecutor from parliament and he will be subject to almost the same control as the ministers are subject to. But if we argue that the judiciary is another structure that acts by rules that are not exactly the same on which the legislative and executive authorities communicate, I think that this argument rather undermines the thesis. Once again, I accept the example that you said that specific questions can even be raised, not only in general in the activities of the prosecution, but also what actions it has taken, say, to investigate socially sensitive topics that affect a huge number of citizens or the entire state system. However, in this case, it turns out that MPs are postmen and not people who have their own reasons to put such questions, because as the text is written, see it, they must refer to requests made by citizens in these cases. Why does the people's representative not take responsibility when he has become convinced of the importance of this issue, so we must strengthen his actions by having already received requests from him to the citizens? Serious MPs will be very troubled because I imagine how dozens of letters will be received in various cases by different citizens and then many will rightly ask: "Why have you submitted this question, and on the other, which we have put in my case, you have not asked in writing the Attorney General? " and again I say to you, it will be as if the Members of the National Assembly are willingly signing under all kinds of things to meet some mass expectations or people who are more persistent without being able to give arguments why they have chosen and put specific topics. This co-quoting with the signature of some initiatives by citizens and organisations does not, in my view, contribute to deepening the seriousness of the work of these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u269	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Kazak, it's been a long time since we've heard from you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u270	Thank you, Madam President. This text is not very well built, but it is a start anyway, and I think we should support it. Otherwise, let's carefully read this text. It says that the imported reports are discussed by the National Assembly, which means that the MPs will have the right to take account of these reports, including questions. Apart from that, read precisely the text: MPs will be able to raise questions that have been sent to them by citizens, NGOs and so on. We must not underestimate the MPs. Eventually, each of us will decide whether a question should be asked or not. However, my concern is that this procedure, which is written in the Law, may not happen, because last week, here in this Chamber, we discussed two annual reports for 2014 and 2015, about the prosecution's activities, and there was no one in the Chamber to answer the questions asked us, because neither the chief prosecutor nor any of his deputies showed up at this hearing. I would ask: if this procedure raises questions and the chief prosecutor or whoever is in charge is absent again, to whom will we ask these questions, and what is the penalty if they do not appear in the Chamber? There is no answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u271	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? First line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u272	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, if I understand you correctly, you consider this text pointless. Then why are you supporting him?! Withdraw him and that's it, that is, support colleague Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u273	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Georgiev, something better than nothing. From the position you are taking, and from what I have heard from Mr. Stoilov, you want to completely remove this text. I mean, there's no procedure, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u275	It's only al. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u276	If that al. 4 dropped out means that what of this, as the Prosecutor General, will submit a report to the National Assembly when it will not be able to be discussed. In para. 4 there is a procedure to discuss the submitted reports. They're not one, they're two types of reports. So I say something better than nothing. Not that I believe anything will happen, because in the previous provisions para. 2 and 3 you will see that the Chief Prosecutor on his own initiative has not yet seen such an initiative, although it has already been 8 months since we have amended the Constitution or decided by the National Assembly. I do not see in this Chamber the will of the National Assembly to call here the Attorney General in any case. Thank you. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u277	From a place for the stenogram Mr. Yanaki Stoilov specified his procedural proposal, specifying that his proposal to drop para. 4 in § 65 of the report on creations new art. 138a refers only to the last sentence. He proposes to drop out: "In the discussion of the reports, the MPs may also ask written questions received from citizens, institutions and NGOs in relation to the reports to which the Prosecutor General is responsible. That's your offer. Mr. Kazak, do you still wish to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am glad, because it seems that reason is beginning to prevail despite fatigue. I fully support the proposal made by my colleague Yanaki Stoilov in his corrected version. In relation to para. 4 I suggest, on the same grounds, that the sentence "second" be rejected in para. 3. With the same arguments with which the Members of the National Assembly in a discussion can calmly raise questions to the Prosecutor General, in the same way the members of the Supreme Judicial Council in the discussion of the Prosecutor General's report may address questions, regardless of where they came from, whether they arose in their consciousness or if someone had referred to them orally or in writing. I also suggest that we drop sentence two in para. 3. In relation to para. 2 However, Madam President, and honourable Members, I think that there is an unacceptable addition to the Constitution here regarding who and how will initiate the hearing procedure of the Prosecutor General on other reports outside the Annual Report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office. I felt absolutely the wrong idea of these reports from Mr. Slavov, almost let us accept it now so that we could immediately call the Attorney General and listen to him on the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u279	Mr. Atanasov spoke about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u280	No, the KTB case was Slavov. Honourable Members, these are reports on the activities of the prosecution on the implementation of the law, the fight against crime and the implementation of criminal policy. If anyone imagines that the National Assembly will call the Attorney General on a specific ongoing case to ask him what the prosecution has done, then we are not aware of what we have adopted as a change of the Constitution. In specific cases, either for the case CCB or any other case, the Prosecutor General cannot be called and explained to the National Assembly. Otherwise, this becomes like parliamentary control with current issues. That's not what the Constitution changes are all about. What does the recording mean at the request of the National Assembly? What kind? Is it a decision or is it a parliamentary group to call the Attorney General?! This text must be aligned with the entry in the Constitution. That's why I'm offering in para. 2 drop the words at the request of the National Assembly or at their own initiative. To remain the Chief Prosecutor shall submit to the National Assembly other reports on the activity. Thus, the text will be entirely in sync with the entry in the Constitution, which was adopted recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u281	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u282	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, to be honest, I was worried about what I heard. I get the impression that you or maybe the DPS doesn't want clarity and publicity on the KTB case. Those were the words that I used, which included investigations against all the officials involved. That's a lot of cases, as you know. This includes the search for where the money was drained, the measures taken by the Syndicates to return the money and so on. If you look at the Constitution, you will notice that there is written "and other reports on the application of the law." My wording was, and if you look at the draft decision that I have tabled, it is that the National Assembly invites the Prosecutor General to give a report on the application of the law on the case-law KTB. Let's be clear after more than two years of investigating how far it's come to be. From what you've said, it seems to me that you don't want clarity and publicity or demand responsibility on the KTB case. By the way, know that you are spoiling the experience of a very good impression that some of your colleagues have been making over the past two years that the DPS has been supporting publicity on the KTB case. So be careful with such statements. You're gonna do them a bad favor. Their shit about the effort.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u283	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u284	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Slavov, with such shallow speculation that you are trying to fool the MPs here, I assure you, you will achieve nothing! Such quibbles may pass in front of students from some of the lower classes, but here is the National Assembly. I think that it is very clear to our average intelligent fellow citizens what it means to ask the Attorney General in a specific case, no matter how many cases there have been brought on it or not, and what it means to present reports on criminal policy, the prosecution's activities and so on. If you truly intend to use this procedure to get the Attorney General and ask him what happened to this case, what happened to the investigation of that case, then you have a very coup d'état of what we have adopted as an amendment to the Constitution. This text will be repealed by the Constitutional Court if you fill it with similar content. Where, then, does the independence of the judiciary remain? Is the prosecution part of the independent judiciary or not, if we are going to subject it to continuous parliamentary control on specific cases that have not been completed, have not gone through a judicial phase?! And you're going to ask the Attorney General what's going on with his case, his case, whatever of a social nature, and you can't ask for explanations and reports from the Attorney General with a similar procedure. Correct your vision. You seem to be struggling, but you have experienced colleagues of lawyers, you have relatives with experience, and you have a chair of the Union of Judges and others. They'll explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u285	There's a word for a statement, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u286	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As we have driven it, let us choose the Attorney General, choose the Presidents of the VCC and of the SAC, because you have appointed them the same functions, the same duties as here, in para. 4, as regards the report of the President of the VCC and of the SAC. It can be asked written questions by citizens, organizations and so on. There's no account of the separation of powers at all here. The MP here is practically becoming a transmission between some non-governmental organizations and the judiciary, in this case the prosecution. This is absolutely unacceptable. If you want, every Friday to control them, or every first Thursday, one blitz control, and let's move on. Here is proof of what we told you a long time ago about what is intended by the amendment of the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary. Here's another piece of evidence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u287	Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u288	Thank you, Madam President. I am provoked by your statement just now that you have missed that I rarely take the floor. That's why I asked for it one more time, but I want to say something very important and essential, which is known by everyone in this room, but is passed. What does separation of authorities mean? This means relative independence and mutual control. Dear colleagues, I do not want to give examples that if each of you has information that could be useful in civil, criminal or any case and is called, it appears because it is a public debt. It appears and cooperates with the judiciary. On the other hand, this procedure will allow us once a year to listen to the prosecutor and not be able to ask him any questions. I say again, when we ask him any questions, and if he doesn't answer, what happens next? Nothing follows from the whole thing. But in the end, some mechanism for greater transparency is being introduced. I've already taken the floor to say something important so there won't be any mistake. Mr. Stoilov, what you are proposing is not a second sentence, but a third sentence. I don't know if it's accepted from the auditorium and there's going to be a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u289	You're right, Mr. Atanasov. This is the third sentence of para. 4. Second line, Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to remind you that when the amendments to the Constitution under Chapter were discussed, there was a proposal from Mr. Atanasov, which suggested that the National Assembly should ask the Attorney General for Adhok reports. This amendment to the Constitution was explicitly rejected by the National Assembly in a constitutional procedure. Now through the back door with a simple law, with a simple majority, we are actually offered the exact same text. But instead of the National Assembly may demand from the Prosecutor General, he now writes at the request of the National Assembly. Absolutely unconstitutional text that must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u291	Third line? A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u292	Thank you, Madam President. In essence, I agree with both replicators, only with regard to the possibility of questions to the Attorney General, and now they are. We accept a report or accept it or do not accept it. However, to be a transmission and possibly to allow lobbying organisations to ask questions about certain cases in relation to their interests through the national representative is absolutely unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u293	Any other MPs? Mr. Georgiev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u294	Madam President, honourable Members! If you want to do absurd things, here I am making an editorial proposal: in a sentence first of paragraph 4 before the Attorney General and after listening to him to add to his presence. Let's write it down, let's get the Attorney General here, let's interrogate him, let's ask him written questions from whomever we want. If you want there to be obvious parliamentary pressure against the prosecution, let us then make this addition in this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u295	Would you like to read what paragraph 4 sounds like after your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u296	This is what it will sound like, Madam President: sentence two: The Supreme Judicial Council shall submit to the National Assembly the report under para. May 1st to 31st. The reports referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be discussed after the National Assembly has heard in its presence the Prosecutor General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u297	How will he listen if he is not present, Mr. Georgiev? Please, a little bit of seriousness.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u298	So far, we have spoken that the Attorney General did not respect the parliamentary procedure, that he was absent, that no questions could be asked. I'm making this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u299	Mr. Georgiev, I appreciate your sense of humor, but in this case, I think it's completely inappropriate. Is there a line to Mr. Georgiev? He was just kidding. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I will put the proposals to the vote in the order of the paragraphs, not during the debate. First editorial proposal is in para. 2 where Mr. Kazak proposed to drop the text at the request of the National Assembly or at his own initiative and the editing of para. 2 to remain the Chief Prosecutor shall submit to the National Assembly other reports on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and so on. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal for editing para. 2. They voted 114 MPs: 15 against 74, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak has a proposal for editing Al. 3, which consists of two sentences. He's proposing that sentence two be dropped. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal in relation to para. 3. They voted 122 MPs: 15 against 78, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] You spoke in the debate, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u300	I'm paying attention to the illiterateness of editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u301	On this point, you can speak on the next text. The next proposal is for editing of para. 4 Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposes to drop the last sentence, which is the third sentence of para. 4. They voted 123 MPs: 13, against 77, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u302	Madam President, I'd like a re-vote to help you with something else. I took note of the texts to be written in the correct Bulgarian language. The bedpan can't be plural, and the verb can be singular. Let these texts be awarded to lawyers and people who exercise the Bulgarian language correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u303	Could you be specific, Mr. Stoilov, and tell me what procedure you came out for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u304	My procedure is to reschedule the motion to drop out. Since you will most likely leave the text, the final version should say:...can do something, and not the MPs can do something. [[Reply by MP.]] Let's not argue. There's one language and one grammar rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u305	Mr. Stoilov, you're wrong. But we're not going into this controversy. Here it is not in the sense that they can, but the legal opportunity what to do as a collective body, and they are part of it. We're in a re-voting procedure anyway. Stylistics and grammar will specify later with your group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u306	Just to say that lawyers are not allowed to change the Bulgarian language. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u307	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u308	Why re-vote? Because there was a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u309	He asked for a re-vote. That was the procedure. It's a re-vote. They voted 127 MPs: 16 against 91, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Georgiev, do you insist? [[Calls Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev.]] No, because it makes sense, but when introducing electronic control, when this could happen remotely. Colleagues, I put to the vote the version of § 65 on the Commission report. [[National Representative Mithat Metin wants a word for a negative vote.]] Wait, you're not sure if the text has been adopted. Please! Wait till we announce the result. Abort the vote! They voted 130 MPs: 117 against 13, no abstentions. The editing of § 65 for the creation of a new art. 138a accepted. [[Single applause.]] Now you have the opportunity for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u310	Since there are applauses in this House, I would like to explain why I voted against it. I voted against, honourable Members of this House, as we have just given absolute power with this text to such non-governmental organisations as the Protest Network, for example, which are very active in troubled times, to exert full pressure and control through certain MPs and to control and blackmail the activities of the Prosecutor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u311	Second negative vote? Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u312	Thank you, Madam President. We've been working overtime for a long time now. It is obvious that in these extraordinary meetings we also accept such interesting texts. That's why I'm asking for a 30-minute break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u313	The previous break was announced until 4:30, but we actually started work at 4:40 p.m. There wasn't an astronomical hour expired. Your offer is premature, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Atanasova will report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u314	Under § 59, there is a proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Chief Prosecutor and his alternates may, in writing, revoke or amend the acts of their subordinate prosecutors under the conditions of art. 143, para. 2 to para. 4 unless they were subject to judicial review. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The Supreme Judicial Council's Plenum appoints a deputy to the Prosecutor General from among prosecutors in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office for Countering and Investigating Corruption in Higher State Positions. (4) The Prosecutor under para. 3 sets up a specialized unit for countering and investigating corruption in senior state posts, involving prosecutors from the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the specialized prosecutor's office, specialized prosecutor's office, investigators from the National Investigation Service, employees of the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security and establish a methodology for the organization and implementation of the investigations. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: The following text is added in point 5 (Commission ............... 59................................................................... Art. 139 para. 2 is amended as follows: The Chief Prosecutor and his alternates, who have been empowered under para. 1 may, in writing, revoke or amend prosecutorial acts, unless they have been subject to judicial review, or where they are entrusted with carrying out investigative actions. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u315	That's it. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kanev. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor for procedure.]] Then I'll give you an opportunity for the procedure. I'm looking at the clock and I won't forget you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u316	Madam President, dear Minister, honourable Members, I will try very hard to argue this proposal, made between first and second readings, which I believe is the minimum necessary for a real active reform of Bulgarian justice without constitutional change, marking the public problems which give an answer or a prerequisite for response to such a change and to which nothing else in the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which is currently being adopted, unfortunately, gives no answer. First of all, the current state of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office as it is under the Constitution and the current Law on the Judiciary. It is obvious that for more than two decades the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office permanently, systematically fails to deal with the investigation of corruption cases, the raising of corruption charges and their successful passing through the judicial phase of the criminal trial. It also does not deal with other crimes committed by senior representatives of the various state authorities in its nature. It is obvious that this also applies to serious crimes inherent in political protection, such as smuggling. One possible explanation for this permanent failure of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is its systemic and bilateral political dependence, i.e. both the Prosecutor's Office of the political elite and the political elites of the Prosecutor's Office. However, another more prosaic explanation is possible if we come out of all conspiracy theories, even legitimate doubts, and it is assumed that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office has simply never directed enough efforts and sufficiently concentrated efforts to investigate and counter corruption crimes and crimes committed by senior representatives of the state power. Secondly, this proposal also responds to systemic problems, not only to failure, but to the inability to deal with such types of crimes due primarily to the lack of control, the inability to self-cleanse and the 100 per cent hierarchisation of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. It is obvious that a structure without internal and external controls and balances cannot perform self-control and self-cleaning functions. We offer precisely such an opportunity within the framework of the current Constitution. Thirdly, we are already talking about the bigger problems of corruption and other official crimes in the high levels of judiciary, not only the prosecution, but also the court; the high levels of executive power; the high levels of legislative power and public regulators. It is obvious that the prosecution, in this version of political bilateral dependence, of an operational inability to fight corruption crimes and high-level crimes and internal inability to carry out internal control and self-cleaning, cannot fulfil its main function, and it is to clear the remaining levels of government from the serious corruption problems that exist Or put in a slightly simpler way: to establish in all the higher levels of political and judicial authorities sufficient levels of legitimate fear to carry out the general prevention of corruption crimes and sufficient effectiveness of the investigation to ensure special prevention, i.e. the minimum penalty for corruption crimes at high levels of power. All of this in a set known in Bulgarian public speaking and among Bulgarian citizens, too simplified as a Romanian model of prosecution and Romanian model of judicial reform. He's nothing more than that. What is the legal technique in which we could get such results? Deep constitutional change or what we are now proposing is a measured change in special legislation that is of little importance. The question is whether we have the willpower for such a type of change that would, of course, affect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u317	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. Any other MPs? None Before that, Mr. Popov was on trial.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u318	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a 30-minute break on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u319	The interruption will be 15 minutes, which will extend the time for our legislative work on tomorrow. Fifteen minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u320	Colleagues, it's 6:00. Break time's up. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. I hope everyone hears the sound signal. The hearing is ongoing. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Bayraktarov, after him Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u321	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor and on this bill it will be taken very rarely by me, but in this case I can not help but take the floor when the proposals of my colleague Kanev offer proposals that are, to put it mildly, dangerous. I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs has paid serious attention to the proposed changes in art. 139 para. 2. I will read it in order to make it clear to all colleagues what it is saying: The Chief Prosecutor and his alternates can cancel or modify the acts and, colleagues, here, pay attention to their subordinate prosecutors........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to ask you: who are the subordinate prosecutors in the Republic of Bulgaria? Is there such in the Republic of Bulgaria, who wants to make prosecutors subordinate and to whom to be subordinate? The prosecutor is independent in his actions and no one can exert any pressure on him in the form of a subordinate. I mean, I am asking you, colleague Kanev, because you have spoken a passionate speech, to whom do you really want to subjugate the Bulgarian prosecutors? The Chief Prosecutor and his alternates may, in writing, revoke or amend the acts of their subordinate prosecutors under the conditions of art. 143, para. 2............................................... Four... and a complete nonsense! I guess you haven't even read art. 143, para. 2 and 4 of the Law on the Judiciary, so that you can at least formulate the text as a lawyer. It's a little embarrassing for me to be the one to be debriefing you, but that's two completely different things. Can you imagine, colleagues, a deputy prosecutor altering, for example, the prosecutor's indictment or canceling, or altering the content so that you can be turned innocent by the guilty?! Do you really realize what you're offering the National Assembly?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u322	Guilty or innocent is what the court says.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u323	Okay, and the prosecutor's indictment says so. According to the proposals of colleague Kanev, the Prosecutor General or his alternates may amend because it is not specified which acts. In these acts, I also believe that the indictment is included. There may also be a decree of solicitation as a defendant, that is, one person for whom there is sufficient evidence to be drawn as a defendant, a deputy prosecutor, a general prosecutor may decide that he will not change that act. He might even amend the warrant to arrest a murderer for 72 hours, because that's what some deputy prosecutor thought. In fact, this is what colleague Kanev suggested. I absolutely cannot support these proposals. Moreover, it is these proposals that open a door for the development of corruption, and that is precisely in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. When one Attorney General and three other Deputy Prosecutors acquire the power to amend, change and whatever they want to do with the acts of the independent prosecutor, who should already become a subordinate here, I repeat, to whom, what's next from there? Corruption! That's what my colleague Kanev suggested, at least that's how I understand it. If this is a fight against corruption, I won't talk about the other texts. We have a specialized criminal court right now, and my colleague wants us to do another one. And what will he fight? If you want to do three more, I can propose right now, which is extremely unserious? If this is the way to PR, you didn't choose the right way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u324	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u325	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal that the Reformation Block Group and I have made under this provision concerns the possibility of the Attorney General, together with his alternates, to revoke certain acts of the other prosecutors, namely the acts concerning the investigation of the case. As we know, the Attorney General may at the moment revoke any acts of the below prosecutors, including the investigation, including in the course of the case. We offer a simple solution. The possibility of annulment of acts to be limited only to the decisive acts of prosecutors, i.e. acts concerning the formation of proceedings, termination of proceedings and other acts which have a resonant and must be subject to the control of the Prosecutor General and its alternates. However, as regards the investigative acts of a specific case, which are specific acts which are small acts, an exception should be provided for them. The solution is basically. Here I know that there was a debate of the Legal Commission such as the representatives of the Prosecutor's Office said that there are very few cases of such acts and the annulment of such acts by the Prosecutor General, but I still think that it is appropriate for such a principle to enter into the Law on the Judiciary so that we can clear the texts which concern the Prosecutor's Office, namely to be part of the reform of the judiciary and the prosecution that we are currently looking at. Thank you. PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Replies to Mr. Delchev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 111 MPs: 17 against 74, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Delchev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 19 against 26, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 59 by importer, fully supported by the Commission with a new numbering § 66 on the report. They voted 107 MPs: for 101, against 3, abstention 33. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u326	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 67.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u327	We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 99, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u328	Under § 61, there is a proposal from Radan Kanev and a group. the following point is added: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 of the law in force is created sentence two with the following content: The summary report is published on the website of the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. A new para is being created. 2 containing the following content: Within one month of the summary report, the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall hear the Prosecutor General. The Prosecutor General shall also respond to the written questions received after the publication of the summary report by citizens, institutions and non-profit legal entities registered for public use. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2, para. 3, para. 4 and para. 5 becomes respectively. 3, para. 4, para. 5 and para. 6. 4. A new para is being created. 7 containing the following: Each Head of Prosecutor's Office shall submit a report on the implementation of the Law, the implementation of criminal policy and the results of the fight against crime within the competence of the Prosecutor's Office to the Public Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council annually by 30 September after due public consultation. The report contains an analysis of the main problems and priorities in the work for the following year on specific types of crimes and a report on the results of the priorities set out in the previous report, prepared according to a methodology established by the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council and linked to analysis of the workload, numbers and budget of the relevant prosecution. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 61, which becomes § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u329	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Radan Kanev and a group which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 12, against 63, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 61 fully supported by the Commission, which shall become § 68 in its report. Vote 97 MPs: for 93, against 4, no abstentions. Paragraph 68 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u330	There is a proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph: #################################################################################################### A new article shall be created. 141a with the following content: Art. 141a. (1) At the request of the National Assembly or on its own initiative, the Prosecutor General shall present to the National Assembly reports on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the enforcement of the law, the countering of crime, the countering of corruption in senior state positions, and the realization of criminal policy. (2) Within 30 days of the report under para. 1 The National Assembly shall listen to the Prosecutor General. Members of the National Assembly may raise questions, as well as put written questions by citizens, institutions and non-profit legal entities registered for public use. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u331	Statements? You're withdrawing him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u332	Under § 62, there is a proposal from the MP Radan Kanev. The Commission supports it in principle and is reflected in its systematic place in art. 138, p. 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 69. Under § 63, there is a proposal from the MP Radan Kanev. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." Al. 3 and para. 4 are amended as follows: In cases where he disagrees with the assessment of the evidence and with the internal conviction of his subordinate prosecutors as to the way in which the file is to be decided, the above prosecutor shall carry out himself... [[Reply from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u333	You're withdrawing him too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u334	There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u335	Are you withdrawing him? And it's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u336	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction and instructions in relation to the handling of cases and case files which are inadmissible. (3) In cases determined by Law, a prosecutor from the higher prosecution may: 1. to carry out actions included in the competence of prosecutors from the lower prosecutors; 2. motivated and in writing to suspend, revoke or amend the acts of prosecutors from the lower-level prosecutors. 2. Alinea 4 is canceled. 3. They're creating an al. 5-7: Only written and reasoned instructions on the application of the law may be given when a prosecutor's act is repealed, without prejudice to the internal conviction of the prosecutor. (6) In cases where a prosecutor's act is annulled because the necessary actions have not been carried out to reveal objective truth, the prosecutor above shall indicate what actions and to establish or verify what facts should be carried out. (7) The prosecutor who received the instructions under para. 3, p. 2 and para. 5 and 6 may object to a prosecutor from the prosecutor's superior prosecutor who gave the instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u337	You have the floor to speak, please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u338	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Minister! My statement is on the occasion of this. 2 of § 70 concerning Art. 143. With this point, we waive the responsibility of the administrative directors of the prosecutions, note that they are monitoring the time limits for carrying out the investigation and the time limits for measures of procedural coercion. Why, colleagues, are we canceling this thing? Is that really necessary? Why do we want every prosecutor, me and the Legal Committee to point out this thesis, to be absolutely independent and to do whatever he wants in all investigations? Let at least have internal administrative control over the time limits of the investigations. Mr. Chairman, I'm against canceling para. 4 of the current text, so I suggest t. 2 out of § 70, drop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u339	Paragraph 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u340	Paragraph 2 concerning para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u341	Alinea 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u342	The current text to be released.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u343	"Alinea 4" is cancelled. Is that what you want dropped?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u344	Yeah, that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u345	You want to drop out: "Alinea 4" is canceled. Do you have any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 69 on the Commission report. 110 MPs voted: 103, against 7, no abstentions. Paragraph 69 has been accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, made by the parliamentary stand. 2 which reads: "Alinea 4 is canceled" to drop. We are voting on a proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev, made by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 109 MPs: 10, against 79, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 70 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 101, against 6, no abstentions. Paragraph 70 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u346	Proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreev for the creation of art. 143a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u347	It's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u348	He's retiring. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph: I'm sorry, The text of art. 144 is amended as follows: Art. 144. (1) In the cases provided for in the law, the prosecutor shall: 1. lead the pre-trial proceedings of the criminal trial; 2. ensure compliance with the legality of the administrative process; 3. participate in civil affairs; 4. apply the measures provided by law in the event of evidence that a crime of a general nature or other wrongdoing may be committed; 5. supervise the legality of the execution of penalties, other enforcement measures and detention places. (2) Orders of the Prosecutor, issued in accordance with his powers under para. 1 shall be binding on the public authorities, officials, legal persons and citizens. (3) Within the limits of his powers under para. 1, t. 1 et c. 4 The prosecutor may give binding written orders to the police authorities. (4) The prosecutor shall protest and request the revocation or amendment of unlawful acts within the time limit and in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. (5) The coordination and interaction between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security and the customs authorities in the conduct of pre-trial proceedings shall be governed by instructions of the Chief Prosecutor, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and the Minister of Finance. (6) The instruction under para. 5 settles the interaction in any case, except those referred to in Article 139, para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u349	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 112 MPs: 16, against 72, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Paragraph 64 by importer and paragraph 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u350	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 71. Paragraph 65. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 65 is amended as follows: Article 147 is amended as follows: Art. 147. (1) Where the office of prosecutor in the relevant prosecution is not occupied or a prosecutor is prevented from acting and cannot be replaced by another prosecutor by the same prosecutor: 1. the prosecutor of appeal for his/her area may post: (a) in the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, a prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office of the appropriate rank, after taking the opinion of the Commission on proposals and the attestation to the Prosecutor's College; (b) in the District Prosecutor's Office of the District Prosecutor's Office of the appropriate rank, following the Commission's opinion on the proposals and the attestation to the Prosecutor's College; 2. the district attorney for his district may post: (a) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office, after making an opinion of the Commission on proposals and the attestation to the Prosecutor's College; (b) in the District Prosecutor's Office of Free Job for the Prosecutor's Office, a junior prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office with an internship of more than one year, following the Commission's opinion on proposals and the attestation to the Prosecutor's College; 3. the Prosecutor General may post: (a) in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, prosecutors from the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal or the District Prosecutor's Office who have at least 12 years of legal experience and rank of prosecutor in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, after the Commission's opinion on the proposals and attestations to the Prosecution College is made; (b) in the National Investigation Service, investigators from the district investigation departments in the district prosecutions who have at least 12 years of legal internship and rank of investigator in the National Investigation Service, after making an opinion of the Commission on the proposals and attestations to the prosecutor's college; (c) Investigators from the District Investigation Department, after the Commission's opinion on the proposals and the attestation to the Prosecutor's College. (2) The Prosecutor General may post prosecutors from all over the country in the event of the impossibility of secondment under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 after the Commission's opinion on the proposals and attestations to the Prosecutor's College. (3) An order shall be issued for each secondment with grounds for having a professional need and for determining the particular prosecutor or investigator. (4) The period of secondment may not be longer than 6 months within one year. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 65, which shall become § 72: ................. Article 147 is amended as follows: Art. 147. (1) The posting shall be carried out in the prosecutor's office as necessary under the conditions and under the terms of art. 227, where a prosecutor by the relevant prosecution is prevented from acting as follows: 1. the district attorney may post for his district: (a) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office of the appropriate rank; (b) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office; (c) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a junior prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office with an internship of more than one year; the posting may exceptionally also be in a vacant post; (d) where a prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office cannot be replaced by another prosecutor from the same Prosecutor's Office and cannot be seconded by a Prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office in accordance with points (b) and (c) of the District Prosecutor's Office; 2. the Prosecutor of Appeal may post for his/her area: (a) in the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, a prosecutor of the District Prosecutor's Office of the appropriate rank; (b) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office or from a Regional Prosecutor's Office of the appropriate rank; (c) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office; (d) in the District Prosecutor's Office, a junior prosecutor from another District Prosecutor's Office with an internship of more than one year; exceptionally, the posting may also be in a vacant post; (e) where a prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office cannot be replaced by another prosecutor from the same Prosecutor's Office and can not be seconded by a prosecutor from the District Prosecutor's Office under the terms of points (b), (c) and (d) of the Prosecutor's Office's Office of Appeal. (2) The Prosecutor General may post: 1. in the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office of the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal or the District Prosecutor's Office, who have at least 12 years of legal experience and rank of prosecutor in the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office; 2. in the National Investigation Service, investigators from the investigating departments in the district prosecutions who have at least 12 years of legal internship and rank of investigator in the National Investigation Service. 3. Investigators from the investigation department. (3) The Prosecutor General may post prosecutors from all over the country if there is no possibility of secondment under para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (4) The seconded prosecutors and investigators shall participate votingly in the meetings of the authority from which they are seconded. (5) The seconded prosecutors and investigators shall participate without the right to vote in the meetings of the authority to which they are seconded.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u351	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 16 against 71, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 71 and § 72 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 106, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 71 and 72 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u352	A proposal from Parliamentary Representative Chetin I said to create § 65a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Mithat Metin in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 73: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149, para 2 is created sentence two: The National Investigation Service has a department of forensics to assist the investigation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 75. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov: A new § 67a shall be created with the following text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 165, para. 4 the point is finally replaced by a comma and the text is added: except as members or alternate members in ethical committees under art. 396 and participation in checks under Art. 396 86, para. 1, t. Article 6; 106, para. 1, t. Article 6; 122, para. 1, t. 3 in case of financial collateralisation. The terms and conditions shall be laid down by rules adopted by the SJC's plenary. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u353	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 23, against 17, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 73 with its corresponding content on the report, as well as § 74 and § 75 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 104, against 1, no abstentions. Paragraphs 73, 74 and 75 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u354	The Commission shall support the importer's test for § 68, which shall become § 76. Under § 69, a proposal from the National Representative Chetin Kazak: In Paragraph 69, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 is amended as follows: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 167 is A Judge or Prosecutor may be the administrative head of the same judicial authority for no more than two consecutive terms. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u355	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 76 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 76 of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Chetin Kazak, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 8 against 63 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. Please report the proposal to Mr. Delchev and the main text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u356	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 69, point (b) is replaced by the following: 3 in the new para. 5 a second sentence is created: a person who has been the administrative head of the same or a different body of the judiciary for two consecutive terms may take up the position of an administrative head within the judiciary after at least 6 months from the end of his second term of office. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova under the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 69, which shall become § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167 the following additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall be added at the end not before the expiry of the previous term. 2. In para. 4 after his entry into office, he shall be added and shall expire on the last day of his term of office. 3. The creation of para. 5. The Administrative Head of Court and the Prosecutor's Office may take up no more than two mandates in the same judicial authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u357	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the committee. Please vote. They voted 104 MPs: 16 against 38, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 77 on the Commission report. We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 77 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u358	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 78. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become § 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 82, as para. 13 is amended as follows: When the President of the Republic refuses to appoint a candidate proposed by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and no proposal for the same candidate has been made again, the new election shall be made under the terms and conditions of the ) (a.k.a. 1-12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 84.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u359	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, § 71 by importer, which becomes § 79, offers a very strange innovation. From now on, administrative leaders will only be able to be offered by the general meetings of the courts concerned. In other words, the possibility of an administrative head of the District Court X being proposed, such as a judge at the District Court, is almost crossed. It's either a U County judge who's next door or from a neighboring area. That means that from now on, a strong encapsulation will be ensured within the courts, which will further stimulate grouping, bearing in camps and ultimately fully, among other proposals that have been supported, placing in total dependence of the President of the court concerned on the judges in that court, placing it in absolute commitment, depending on and inability to pass any independent management decisions. The only option offered as an alternative to raising an administrative leader is the Minister of Justice. Where is the independence of the judiciary? Where's the Supreme Judicial Council, where's the colleges we set up at the Supreme Judicial Council? We cried so much that relative independence must be ensured between the prosecution and the court inside the Supreme Judicial Council through the relevant colleges. Here, we've identified the relevant colleges. Why do we not allow at least the members of the High Judicial Council of the College concerned to be able to propose administrative leaders? What is this total distrust of the Supreme Judicial Council as a judicial authority? So we are talking about independence of the judiciary, independence from political influences and so on, but we are lightly giving the Minister of Justice the right to have the opportunity to propose administrative leaders, but we are not giving this right to the Supreme Judicial Council, or at least to colleagues, or to some of the members of the relevant College. How can such a text be supported at all? I'm surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u361	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 70 to 76 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u362	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u363	Come in for a procedure before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has become clear from the point of view that I would like you to put this § 71 to the vote procedurally.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u365	Okay. I shall put to the vote § 70 by importer, which shall become § 78 by the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: for 106, against 5, no abstentions. Paragraph 78 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote § 71 by importer, which in the Commission's report shall become § 79, after being fully supported by the same Commission. We are voting § 79 of the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: for 104, against 5, no abstentions. Paragraph 79 of the Commission report has been adopted. I am now voting on paragraphs 72 to 76, including by importer, which in the Commission's report are paragraphs 80 to 84 inclusive. We are voting on paragraphs 80 to 84, including the Commission report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: 98 against 2, no abstentions. Paragraphs 80 to 84, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u366	Paragraph 77. Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 7 concerning para. 2, p. 8, 10 and 11 and does not support it in the rest: In § 77: ... 2. Art. 175c is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 t. 2 is deleted; 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: A Judge, Prosecutor and Investigator shall submit a declaration under Article 15 May annually by 15 May. 175a, para. 1, t. 1 in its part on the property of the person for the previous calendar year. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2............................................... 4 becomes para. 3............................................... 5. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175d, para. 1 the word "reliable' is replaced by "compliant'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The verification shall be carried out by comparing the declared facts with the data obtained in accordance with art. 175d, para. 2............................................... 7. 2. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175h is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 words as well as data on conflict of interest shall be deleted. 2. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3. In para. 5 words as well as in the case of an alert which meets the conditions of art. 175l, para. 5 and containing details of non-compliance between its property status and the declaration under art. 175b, para. 1 exceeding BGN 5000 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175k is amended as follows: "1." Paragraph 2 is deleted. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The investigation of the independence of a judge, prosecutor or investigator is to establish an infringement of independence as a constitutional and legal requirement for the functioning of the judiciary in the formation, distribution and movement of cases and case files. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The subject of the investigation of a judge, prosecutor and investigator for violation of the prestige of the judiciary is the establishment of behavior which violates the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrate and affects: 1. the public image of the judge, prosecutor and investigator; 2. the public image of the judiciary, or 3. the trust of citizens and society in the judiciary. ... 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175p the following amendments shall be made: "1." Allinea 1 is deleted. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 1 and amended as follows: On the proposals for the establishment of a conflict of interest and for the imposition of disciplinary punishment, proceedings under Chapter 16 shall be initiated by collecting evidence under the Administrative Procedure Code, hearing the person and being given the opportunity to make an objection. The decision shall be appealed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 323 and shall be declared in accordance with Article 323. 324. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 2. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1, 7, 8 and 10 and does not support it in the rest: In § 77: ... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1: - T. 2 dropped out; - T. 3 and 4 become respectively t. 2 and 3; (b) A new para shall be created. 2: A Judge, Prosecutor and Investigator shall submit a declaration under Article 15 May annually by 15 May. 175a, para. 1, t. 1 in its part on the property of the person for the previous calendar year. (c) para. 2 " 4" became respectively. 3... 5........................................................................... 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175d, para. 1 the word "reliable' is replaced by "compliant'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "the information received" shall be replaced by the data received in accordance with art. 175d, para. 2.. 7........................................................................................ (b) para. 2 out, para. 1 becomes the content of art. 175f. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 words as well as data on conflict of interest and the comma in front of them are dropped; (b) para. 4 dropped out; (c) para. 5 becomes para. 4 and after the word "unchangeableness" a point shall be placed and the text shall be deleted until the end of the provision. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) para. 2 dropped out; (b) para. 3 becomes para. 2 and amended as follows: The investigation of the independence of a judge, prosecutor or investigator is to establish an infringement of independence as a constitutional and legal requirement for the functioning of the judiciary in the formation, distribution and movement of cases and case files. (c) para. 4 becomes para. 3, as amended: The subject of examination of a judge, prosecutor or investigator for violation of the prestige of the judiciary is the establishment of a behavior that violates the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrate and prejudices: 1. the public image of the judge, prosecutor or investigator; 2. the public image of the judiciary, or 3. the trust of citizens and society in the judiciary. ... 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) para. 1 dropped out; (b) para. 2 becomes para. 1 and amended as follows: On the proposals for the establishment of a conflict of interest and for the imposition of disciplinary punishment, proceedings under Chapter 16 shall be initiated by collecting evidence under the Administrative Procedure Code, hearing the person and being given the opportunity to make an objection. The decision shall be appealed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 323 and shall be declared in accordance with Article 323. 324. (c) para. 3 becomes para. 2. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs: In § 77, Article 77, point (b) is replaced by the following: 175b al. 7 is amended as follows: The Courts, prosecutors and investigators may make a declaration that they do not wish to publish information on the property and income of a person with whom they are in a cohabitation of spouses. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 77, which shall become § 85: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 9, Sections Ia and Ib are created: "Section I................................................................................................ Verification of property declarations Judges, prosecutors and investigators Art. 175a. (1) Judges, prosecutors and investigators shall submit the following declarations to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. a declaration of two parts of property and interests; 2. a declaration of change in declared circumstances in the declaration under point 2. 1 in the section of interest under art. 175b, para. 1, t. 11x13. (2) Declarations under para. 1 shall be submitted according to a model approved by the Chief Inspector. (3) Declarations shall be submitted: 1. in paper accompanied by a copy of an electronic medium, or 2. electronically signed with a qualified electronic signature under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. (4) Declarations shall be kept for 10 years. (5) The declarations shall be destroyed after the expiry of the term under para. 4 from a committee appointed by order of the Chief Inspector. Art. 175b. (1) Judges, prosecutors and investigators shall submit a declaration of property and interests in the country and abroad in which they declare: 1. real estate; 2. motor land, water and aircraft as well as other vehicles which are subject to registration by law; 3. cash amounts, including deposits, bank accounts and claims at a total value of more than 10 000 BGN, including in foreign currency; 4. insurance in pension funds under additional voluntary insurance if their total value exceeds BGN 10 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. available valuable books, shares in limited liability companies and command companies and financial instruments under art. 3 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; 6. liabilities and loans above BGN 10 000, including credit cards, if the credit limit used in the previous calendar year in local or foreign currency in total exceeds BGN 10 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7. income other than those for the post held received in the previous calendar year, amounting to more than BGN 1000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8. foreign real estate and foreign motor land, water and aircraft worth more than 10 000 BGN, which the person or his spouse, or the person with whom he is in actual cohabitation on a marital basis, permanently uses, regardless of the reasons for this and the conditions of use; 9. collateral given and expenses incurred by them either for their benefit or for the benefit of the persons under para. 4 by their consent, where they are not paid by their own means, by public funds or by means of the institution in which they hold office, for: (a) training; (b) travel; c) other payments with a single price above 1000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10. costs of training outside the cases under point 10. 9, including for the benefit of the persons under para. 4, whose single value exceeds 1000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 11. participation in commercial companies, management or control bodies of commercial companies, non-profit legal entities or cooperatives, as well as activity as sole trader on the date of election or appointment and 12 months before the date of election or appointment; 12. contracts with persons operating in areas relating to decisions taken by the person within the scope of his or her powers or duties of service; 13. data on related persons to the activity of whom the judge, prosecutor or investigator has a private interest. (2) In the case of the annual declaration of the property under point (b) of paragraph 1, the following shall be added: The stocks, respectively the residual amount of the debt, shall be indicated by 31 December of the previous calendar year. (3) When declaring the property under para. 1 if it has been acquired during the appointment of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, the legal bases and origin of the means by which it was acquired shall also be indicated. (4) Judges, prosecutors and investigators shall declare the property and income of their spouses or persons with whom they are in actual cohabitation on a marital basis and of the minor children. (5) Judges, prosecutors and investigators shall not declare the property and income of their spouses in actual separation and of the underage children when they do not exercise parental rights. (6) For the circumstances under para. 5 The debtor shall submit a declaration. (7) Judges, prosecutors and investigators may make a declaration that they do not wish to publish the information on the person with whom they are in actual cohabitation on a marital basis and on the property and income of that person.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u367	One moment, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, since our decision which we have adopted is that the plenary session will continue until 19.00, we are seconds after 19.00 and there are texts for reporting the report started before 19.00, we propose that it be presented by the rapporteur and that the debates and votes be held in tomorrow's session. And one request: to respect the rapporteur, to listen to the tests, not to move the House so that MPs do not remain who do not listen to the texts. I have no doubt that everyone has read them, but patience a few more minutes to report the texts that have already begun to be presented to us before 7:00. Go on, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u368	Art. 175c. (1) A declaration of property and interests shall be filed: 1. within one month of the occurrence of the quality, which is the basis for a declaration; 2. annually until 15 May.. for the previous calendar year; 3. within one month of the loss of quality, which is the basis for a declaration; 4. within one month of the expiry of one year after the submission of the declaration under point 4. 3. (2) The declaration referred to in art. 175a, para. 1, t. 2 shall be submitted within one month of the occurrence of the change. (3) Within one month of the submission of a declaration of property and interests, the person concerned may change his declaration where this is necessary to remove incompleteness or errors in the declared circumstances. (4) Within one month of the expiry of the time limits under para. 3 The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council publishes on its website the declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators and a list of persons who have not submitted declarations within the time limit. Art. 175. (1) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall lead and maintain electronic public registers: 1. of the declarations referred to in Article 1. 175a, para. 1, t. 1 and 2; 2. of the Penal Orders in force. (2) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall enter the declarations of property and interests and a change in the declared circumstances in the public register under para. 1, t. 1. The introduction shall be carried out only by staff authorised by the Chief Inspector. (3) The Public Register under para. 1, t. 1 contains the entry number, the date of the declaration and the information under art. 175b, para. 1. (4) Each person shall have the right to access the data from the public register. (5) Access shall be provided through the website of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. Art. 175d. (1) Within three months of the expiry of the period for submitting the declaration, the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall carry out a verification of the authenticity of the facts declared. (2) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be entitled to direct access to the electronic databases and other informational arrays maintained by the state and municipal authorities, the judicial authorities and other institutions to which the facts declared are subject to entry, notification or verification. (3) Access by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council to the informational arrays and registers of the state and local authorities, except for the security services, shall be carried out directly by electronic means and shall be free of charge. The procedure for providing information by other authorities where technical requirements do not allow direct access shall be governed by an agreement between the Chief Inspector and the relevant authority. (4) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council may require additional information from the state authorities, local authorities and local administration, judicial authorities and other institutions to which the facts declared are subject to entry, notification or verification. (5) The bodies and institutions under para. 4 are required within one month of receipt of the request to provide the necessary information. (6) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council may receive information from the Information System on the cash liabilities of the clients under art. 56 of the Credit Institutions Act, as well as asking for disclosure of banking secrecy. (7) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council may also request disclosure of insurance secrecy as well as of tax and insurance information. Art. 175f. (1) The verification shall be carried out by comparing the declared facts with the information received. (2) In the case of non-submit a declaration for the current year, the check under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of the last declaration lodged. Art. 175g. (1) The verification shall end with a compliance report where no difference has been established between the declared facts and the information received. In other cases, the verification shall end with a report of non-compliance. (2) In the event of non-compliance, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall inform the person concerned and give him a 14-day period for the removal of incompleteness and errors in the declared circumstances. The removal of incompleteness and errors shall be carried out with the submission of a new declaration. (3) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall publish on its website a list of persons who have found non-compliance with the declarations, which shall not be removed within the period laid down in para. 2. (4) In case of non-compliance between the declared and the established facts after the period under para. 2 in the amount of not less than 20 000 leva. The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall send the report to the competent authorities for the verification of the person's property status. The Chief Inspector shall be informed within 14 days of completion of the verification of the results thereof. Art. 175z. (1) In cases of non-compliance of 5000 BGN up to BGN 20 000, as well as data on conflict of interest, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall initiate an additional inspection against the person concerned within which it declares the information under art. 175b, para. 1 as well as any other information necessary to carry out the verification. (2) The verification of the declared facts shall require data on the stocks and movements of funds on the bank accounts of the persons, on the financial instruments held by them and the transactions carried out with financial instruments by the Central Depository registers, information from the Ministry of Interior's information systems and the verification shall be given the opportunity to provide written explanations and to provide evidence. (3) The further verification shall end with a reasoned report of the verifier team on the existence or absence of non-compliance. A report of non-compliance shall be drawn up in the event that, after the additional information is collected, there is a difference between the declared data and the information received, the amount of which exceeds BGN 5000. (4) In the case of a report of non-compliance under para. 3 shall be notified and the competent authorities shall take appropriate action. (5) An additional check shall also be carried out in the case of an attestation of a judge, prosecutor or investigator for the acquisition of irrevocability, and in the case of an alert lodged which meets the conditions of art. 175l, para. 5 and containing details of non-compliance between its property status and the declaration under art. 175b, para. 1, exceeding BGN 5000 Section Ib Integrity and conflict of interest checks and establishment of actions affecting the prestige of the judiciary and checks relating to infringement of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators Art. 175. (1) Conflict of interest arises where a judge, prosecutor or investigator has a private interest which may influence the impartial and objective performance of his or her powers or duties of service. (2) Any interest which results in a benefit of material or intangible character for a person under para. 1 or for persons associated with it, including any commitment undertaken. (3) Any cash or non-cash income, including the acquisition of shares or shares, as well as the granting, transfer or withdrawal of rights, receipt of goods or services free of charge or at prices lower than market, obtaining a privilege or honor, assistance, voice, support or influence, advantage, receiving or promising a job, job, gift, reward or promise to avoid loss, liability, penalty or any other adverse event. (4) A judge, prosecutor or investigator who has a private interest in a particular matter beyond the examination of cases and case files shall be obliged to submit a declaration of conflict of interest to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and to terminate his or her powers in respect of the person or activity concerned. (5) Where a law provides for special grounds for absolutions and absolutions, the special law shall apply. (6) Immediately after the completion of the cases with an effective judicial act, as well as on the files and cases of prosecutors and investigators, the administrative directors of the judicial authorities shall send copies of the judicial acts and acts of prosecutors and investigators to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, which shall be revoked by reason of a breach of the legal provisions governing the grounds for taking the cases and files of a judge, prosecutor or investigator. Art. 175k. (1) The subject of the examination of a judge, prosecutor or investigator for conflict of interest shall be the establishment of sufficient evidence of the existence of a private interest in the performance of the particular official functions of the person. (2) The subject of the integrity check of a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be the determination whether the person accepts material or intangible benefits outside the law regardless of their nature which may question his independence and impartiality. (3) The subject of the independence check of a judge, prosecutor or investigator shall be determined whether, in the performance of his duties, the person exercises or succumbs to pressure, threats, incentives, direct or indirect influences by representatives of public authority or private influence, internal or external to the judicial system. (4) The subject of the verification of actions which undermine the prestige of the judiciary is the establishment of whether the person's behaviour is contrary to the established in society understanding of decency and whether his actions compromise the honor of the judge, prosecutor or investigator in the profession and society. Art. 175l. (1) Any person who has evidence of a private interest of a judge, prosecutor or investigator in the performance of his or her specific functions or of actions contrary to the principles of integrity, prejudice the prestige of the judiciary or is linked to a violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors or investigators may submit an alert to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. (2) A publication in the mass media shall also be accepted as an alert if it meets the conditions laid down in para. 5, t. Two-four. (3) Each alert shall be registered with the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council immediately after its entry. (4) Signals which are not within the competence of the inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be transmitted without delay by the authority concerned. (5) Each signal shall contain: 1. the three names, single civil number, address, telephone, fax and e-mail address, if any; 2. the names of the person against whom the alert and the position held by him shall be lodged; 3. specific details of the alleged infringement, including the place and period of the infringement, description of the offence and other circumstances in which it was committed; 4. a reference to documents or other sources containing information supporting the alert, including an indication of data of persons who may confirm the reported data or provide additional information; 5. date of submission of the signal; 6. Sign of the sender. (6) Any sources of information supporting the statements made therein may apply to the alert. (7) The Chief Inspector shall establish an alert model which shall be available on the Inspectorate's website at the Supreme Judicial Council and on the spot. (8) The Chief Inspector shall be responsible for ensuring technical capability to transmit signals in a manner that ensures communication with the sender, but shall not allow disclosure of his identity. Art. 175 meters. (1) The checks under this section shall begin with the order of the Chief Inspector: 1. on a signal that meets the conditions of art. 175l, ) (a.k.a. 5; 2. at the request of a judge, prosecutor or investigator, where the examination concerns him; 3. on the official initiative of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, when in carrying out the checks under art. 56, para. 1 detects evidence of infringements under this Section; 4. upon receipt of a court order under art. 175th, para. 6. (2) In the order of the Chief Inspector under art. 58, para. 1 shall also indicate the basis for initiating the verification. Art. 175n. (1) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council shall carry out the checks under this section within two months of the registration of the alert which may be extended once for a period of one month by order of the Chief Inspector. (2) In the course of the checks, data relevant to the subject of the inspection shall be collected and the person inspected shall be heard. (3) In carrying out the checks under this section the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall have the rights under art. 175d, para. Two-seven. Art. 175o. (1) Each inspection shall end with the drawing up of a reasoned report indicating the verification actions carried out, the facts and circumstances established. The report shall contain a specific opinion on the absence or existence of sufficient evidence of conflict of interest, respectively, of actions or omissions contrary to the principles of integrity, prejudice the prestige of the judiciary or relate to the violation of the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators. (2) The report shall be submitted to the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, which shall adopt a decision to terminate the verification in the absence of sufficient data under para. 1 or to propose disciplinary punishment or to establish a conflict of interest to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council where sufficient data are available. In establishing evidence of infringement of the independence of a judge, prosecutor and investigator by a person not holding that quality shall also be notified to the head of that person. (3) The person inspected shall be informed of the results of the inspection and of the decision of the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council on the report. Art. 175p. (1) When the proposal for disciplinary punishment under art. 175o is based on evidence of conflict of interest, with its decision the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council simultaneously makes a proposal to the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council for the formation of proceedings for the establishment of conflict of interest. (2) The proposals for the establishment of a conflict of interest and for the imposition of disciplinary punishment shall form a general proceedings under Chapter 16th, gathering evidence under the Administrative Procedure Code, hearing the person and being given the opportunity to object to the issue of conflict of interest. In this case, the decision shall contain separate statements on the existence or absence of a conflict of interest and on the imposition of disciplinary punishment, which shall be appealed under art. 323 and shall be declared in accordance with art. 324. (3) Within 7 days of the entry into force of a decision establishing a conflict of interest, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall notify the competent authorities of the initiation of proceedings for the verification of the property status of the person, where provided by law, or of the implementation of the statutory property consequences of the infringement. Art. 175p. (1) A person who has given a signal shall not suffer adverse consequences only on this basis. (2) Persons entrusted with the examination of the signal shall be obliged to: 1. do not reveal the identity of the person giving the signal; 2. do not disclose the facts and data which have become known to them in relation to the examination of the signal; 3. protect the written documents entrusted to them from unauthorised access to third parties. (3) The information under para. 2 is a business secret. (4) The persons under para. 2 propose to the relevant managers specific measures to protect the identity of the issuing person, including measures preventing action by which it is exposed to mental or physical pressure. (5) In particular cases, the Chief Inspector may seek the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to take additional measures to protect the person giving the signal. (6) The master inspector shall establish rules ensuring the measures to protect the identity of the applicant. Art. 175c. A person who has been fired, persecuted or in respect of whom acts leading to mental or physical harassment have been taken because he has given an alert shall be entitled to compensation for the property and non-material damage suffered by him in judicial proceedings. Art. 175. No information shall be provided, except in the provided cases, on non-complete checks under this section. Art. 175u. The person under review shall have the right to legal protection in the course of the checks and proceedings under this Section. Art. 175f. The Administrative Procedure Code shall apply to the issues not addressed in this section.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-26.u369	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I thank all my fellow Members who remain until the end, until the parliamentary bell in plenary. I'm adjourning the plenary session. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
