ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I offer to your attention a Programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 24 to 26 February 2016: 1. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importers: Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev the First Law; Krassimir Velchev and a group of MPs the Second Law; and a third Law by Mr. Petar Slavov. 3. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers are Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers - Valentin Radev and a group of MPs voted first on 18 February 2016. This will be the first item for tomorrow, 25 February 2016. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, a Common Project drawn up on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 10 September 2015 with importers: Council of Ministers, Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. This is intended to be point two for tomorrow, Thursday, 25 February 2016. 6. First vote on the Law on Equality of Women and Men. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 1 of the Structural Programme Loan Agreement (Bulgaria, EU Funds co-financing 2007-2013) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Partnership between the Government of the Republic of Albania, the Government of the Republic of Armenia, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Egypt, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the International Organisation of Francophony on the National Francophone Initiative (2015-2018) within the framework of the French Language Programme in International Relations. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 12. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, for Friday, starting at 11.00 Please vote, fellow Members. They voted 130 MPs: 115, against 1, abstention 14. The program for the week has been accepted. An offer has been made under the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov, which propose the inclusion as a point in the weekly programme of the first voting of the Draft Law amending the Law on Family Aid for Children, No 554-01-164, submitted on 14 October 2015 by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to protect the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I doubt it surprises you that we want to be included as an item on the agenda in the forthcoming bill amending the Family Aid Act for children. With this proposal, we aim to bind in legislation the size of the monthly supplement for raising children with disabilities, in line with the economic dynamics of the country, by doing so on a basis of 70 percent of the minimum wage for the country. And now for our motives. Speaking of social payments, I can't help but notice that the political party GERB is extremely consistent in these policies. This would have been very good for the Bulgarians if this policy had not been expressed in freezing these social payments. If they manage the Socialists, account is taken of the dynamics of the economy, social payments are linked to the minimum wage, increasing along with it. The government of GERB comes, unties them from the minimum wage and freezes them at the reached levels. And this government is no exception, although a social minister is supposedly elected a left-wing man. For the second consecutive year, the second consecutive budget, social payments are frozen at the levels reached by the Oresharski cabinet. And the most painful thing is that the right of monthly supplements to children with permanent disabilities. You froze them at 240 BGN, which is currently 57% of the minimum wage for a line of poverty of 300 BGN. There is no mercy on these children and their parents. In Bulgaria, it is a challenge for healthy people to live, what to talk about the sick. We can't accept such treatment for those parents who have hired to raise their children with disabilities alone instead of leaving them in some establishment. It's about 22,000 kids, about 14 million a year... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u3	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The time for submitting the proposal for inclusion on the agenda is over. Colleagues, I'm putting this motion to the vote. They voted 125 MPs: 41, Against 11, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. Messages of bills and draft decisions for the period from 17 to 23 February 2016: Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers "Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers "Delyan Peevski," Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts. Importer "Stefan Kenov." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead and the Committee on Education and Science. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer Dimitar Delchev and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It will also be examined by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill to supplement the Election Code. Importer Dimitar Delchev and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers svetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It will also be examined by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. Leader of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. The bill came in at the last minute. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Total bills for amendment and supplement of the Election Code are 14. On 19 February the National Assembly received a report Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for Prevention and Countering Corruption in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period April 2015 adopted by Decision No 116 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter, he was sent to the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission and the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is provided to all MPs of their e-mails and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 22 February 2015 the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the National Assembly received an Annual Report on the extent of implementation of the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for 2015. The material was provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving to point one of the weekly program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES FOR A PRESENT, A DEPUTY-CONCEEDING AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROTECTION OF CONCURENCE, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR ECONOMIC POLICY AND TURISUM, AND THE PROCEEDING PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Here you are, Mrs. Karastoyanova, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 16 September 2015, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee discussed procedural rules for holding a public procedure under art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. In accordance with art. 5, para. 5 in relation to Art. 4, para. 1 sentence second of the Law on Protection of Competition, the National Assembly must elect a President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. After the discussion, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, with 14 votes in favour, with no objection and no abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Proposal for candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition and Presentation of their Documents 1. Proposals for a Chair, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall be made by Members of the National Assembly or by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for a Chair, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant according to the template. (a) Annex to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) a certified copy of a diploma for higher legal or economic education by the applicant; (d) a criminal record; (e) documents certifying that the applicant proposed for: (aa) President shall comply with the requirement of professional experience under art. 4, para. 2 and the requirements of art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Protection of Competition; (bb) Vice-President or member shall meet the requirements of art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Protection of Competition; II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but no later than 3 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The media may send to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism questions to the candidates to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Economic Policy and Tourism Committee, or by e-mail: kipet@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the relevant requirements for the post for which it is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates for President shall present their concept of the Commission's activities for the protection of competition as an independent specialised state body within 15 minutes of a candidate. Candidates for Vice-President and members shall present their concept of the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition as an independent specialised state body within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for the Vice-President and members in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall ask in summary the questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Commission for Protection of Competition. IV. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Vice-President and the five members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes during the re-voting, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The report shall also be annexed to the declaration that each candidate shall complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u5	Yes, it is an integral part of the Project Decision. Colleagues, the debate is open. Statements by the rules of procedure? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to make an editorial proposal in Section II. 6. It has already become traditional in all such public procedures that this National Assembly is conducting, to do one check for possible belonging of candidates to the State Security. I see it's missed here. I assume it is an involuntary omission, which we can easily correct by transposing the text that was present in other procedures. It was similar with candidates for judicial inspectors at the Supreme Judicial Council and other procedures that we have done. I'll read my editorial proposal, then I'll give it to you, Madam President, which is in Section II. 6 a new sentence is finally added: The candidates declare with their participation in the procedure the consent to carry out an inspection by the Commission to establish a possible belonging to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army in accordance with art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The results of the Commission's verification of the access and disclosure of its documents for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are announced by the leading parliamentary Commission on its website.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u7	Which section is this because I don't see it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u8	This is to Section II, t. Six at the end. I hope, Madam President, with this proposal, if it's backed up in a room...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u9	Section II, t. 6, says: "The events and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and so on. The events and questions are published on a specialized thematic site and you offer the last sentence of 13 lines and there is an addition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u10	The Commission's discharge takes a lot of space. I did it to make it easier for the stenogram. If we write it down with layoffs, I think it'll fit in two rows. The Law itself and the Commission's name take three rows each, so it is longer
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u11	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u12	The point of this proposal, as I was beginning to say, is that we hope that there is an informed choice, indeed the procedure will be transparent. I very much hope it will also be well held with a full opportunity to hear all seven candidates. Because, colleagues, as you well remember, we have specifically amended the Law in order to be able to elect a new composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition, that is, these will be new faces, there will be no one in the old composition. It is very important to really listen to them fully, to be able to put all the questions and to do all the necessary checks, to make it clear that these people, taking on this heavy responsibility, this serious responsibility both to society and to us, will do their job conscientiously and will really devote themselves to combating monopolies, the suspicions of cartels and all these problems that have been spoken of for quite some time in society. Unfortunately, we are only seeing analyses, but not concrete results from the current Commission for Protection of Competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u13	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? You have the floor to speak, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u14	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! I am making a formal proposal to amend this point. 6 of Section IV of the proposed rules of choice. On the occasion of the statement made before me, I would like to say that if the presence of a card is sufficient to eliminate a potential candidate, then the absence of such a card is not at all sufficient to elect a person to be a member of this responsible Commission or its chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, the Commission's status has changed, the place in the socio-economic and political life of the country of the President of the Commission has become different. The burden that the Law gives to the Commission mainly for anti-monopoly activity and protection of competition in the event of the abuse of monopolies on the natural economic environment has shifted to public procurement. It can be said that the President of the Commission has become the ruler of the management of nearly 10 billion. BGN, to the extent of the average annual public procurement, thousands of procedures, hundreds of which are appealed. The President of the Commission has received the exclusive right, without arbitrary choice, and, by his decision, to entrust the members of the Commission and the experts designated by him to deal with the cases. Actions and decisions of the Commission shall not be subject to judicial review. Therefore, higher claims must be made to the person who will take up this post. My suggestion is this: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 6 The candidate who received more than two thirds of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected; - the candidate shall be deemed to be Vice-President and a member who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly; - if several candidates for one position have received the necessary votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes for the European Parliament has been elected. I would like to continue my justification with the following. Ladies and gentlemen, when elected with only 50% of the present Members of the National Assembly, it is no problem for the majority to impose a person who will perform the will of those who distribute public funds and, by distributing them, determine the contractor of the contract. Today in Bulgaria it is particularly relevant that the Prime Minister cancels a number of public contracts. Is there anyone in this room who doesn't know that before these public contracts were cancelled, they were distributed as a choice of beneficiary and a hint of a contractor. The main thing in this scheme is who will use the funds to make it clear who will embezzle how much of this public money.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u15	Mr. Bozhinov, the point in the programme is a discussion of rules of procedure, not dealing with the work on the substance of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u16	I know, Madam President, that as a prominent representative of the majority, you fear what I say, but it excites... [[Radio, shout and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u17	Not only don't you know, but you can't see with your back, Mr. Bojinov, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u18	I have no other way to talk to people and face you. [[Applause to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u19	Okay, then how do you feel about me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u20	So be patient! I knew you'd react that way. There are other people who will painfully react, but the topic is particularly up to date. I'm going to say a heretical thought. Did you know that the distribution of public procurement is not the biggest problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u21	That's a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u22	Yes! Do you remember Kolyo Ficheto when he said he was going to build a bridge? [[crowd cheering, cheering]] , and pointed out... [[Replying and shouting.]] Wait a minute, don't be angry! And he said he'd do it in so many days and so much grouchy. And they gave him the order for the bridge that's still standing next to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u23	What's standing? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u24	However, now that orders are distributed, the bridge, the highway and the public significant result of spending public funds is not important, it is important who will receive and absorb public funds to donate the one who gave him the order, Madam President. Therefore, the person we are choosing cannot be the shadow of the Prime Minister, who is the chief authority of the distribution of money in Bulgaria. That is why this person must be elected by a wider majority in order to be responsible if he is conscious; he must feel that he is not subject to the one who has appointed him, to those who have chosen him, because they are also the people who distribute public funds. When you decide to manage public money in this way, when by law you have regulated the mechanisms of corruption, it will be cynical in a few weeks to offer us the Anti-Corruption Act when you have all set up how to do so by the will of those who want to embezzle the funds and explain to us a bad opposition that does not want to accept you the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u25	It's about rules of procedure, Mr. Bojinov. There is no word for opposition in these Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u26	Yes, Madam President. You want me to tell you the name of the person you're going to choose?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u27	You're crossing the line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u28	All right! At that time, colleagues from the Reformation Bloc eliminated your version, which is the shadow of the prime minister in the municipality, in the Council of Ministers and in the so-called last affair Kostinbrod.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u29	The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u30	Madam President, my remark to the last statement of colleague Bozhino is that we are changing the Constitution is no reason not to read it before then. I would like to note to him that it explicitly states that the National Assembly adopts the decisions by simple majority, unless the Constitution provides for another majority. So his proposal is unacceptable.. cannot provide for a two-thirds majority for procedural rules that we are now adopting, which is contrary to this article of the Constitution. My hot advice is to really read it and implement it a lot of mandates is in this Parliament. It's the right thing to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u31	Second line, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Bozhinov! I have listened to you very carefully, and I very much agree with the things you said and I share them. I will probably also support your proposal for this qualified majority. One thing I could not accept, and I cannot agree with it, and the practice in Bulgaria contradicts what you said and which is not, after all, true either, that the President of this Commission is the shadow of the Prime Minister. He's not the Prime Minister's shadow, he's gone! They don't ask him when the orders are canceled! So be more precise in your expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u33	Third line? A hole, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u34	Mr. Ermenkov, I mean that the person who has already appointed to take up this key position is the dispatcher of the distribution of public funds, in the life way, has been the shadow of Mr. Prime Minister, as the Secretary General of the Sofia Municipality, as the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers. That's what I meant, not in the sense that you understand it. To you, honourable Member, the Law on the Commission for Protection of Competition does not foresee and does not refer when it says that the National Assembly is choosing. And I think that the National Assembly is within its right to set higher criteria, a broader agreement, although in this discussion a respected MP who stands higher than us here has expressed his opinion that if such agreement is sought, the circle of people who are going to benefit from corruption decisions will be wider. It's hard to please in a situation like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u35	The way you're holding Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u36	Madam President, I ask you very much to read art. 81, para. 2 of the Constitution for Misunderstood. I think it'll be quite useful for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u37	If you introduce, honourable Members, a point in my Rules of Procedure to clarify the Constitution, I will also do so. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would especially like to address colleagues from GERB, the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front to support the proposal, which my colleague Petar Slavov did just now, namely all candidates to be checked for belonging to State Security. It's not a lustration text. It's a question of having a check to know, it's about knowing who's who, knowing what these candidates are, knowing about their potential dependencies. I would further say the following: it is very important that the new Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC) be selected in a competitive and transparent way and that it is designed so that the people in it can do the work. See what the Commission has done to protect competition in Romania. For example, she found a cartel in the fuel market and imposed huge sanctions. I ask you: for all these years the Bulgarian KPC what important decisions for protection of competition have you made? What protection if you want the business, if you want the consumers because things are connected, is over for all these years in Bulgaria? That's why we're now facing a huge chance. We're going to have a new CDC, new people. But if she works the way she did, all this effort won't make sense, it won't benefit from that thing. It is therefore wrong to have, colleagues and political appointments. It is right to offer people with qualities, positions, reputations. It is right to propose people who will really work in a new way and when there is doubt about a cartel and monopoly somewhere will check, investigate and take the necessary measures to understand both the cartels and the monopolies in Bulgaria, that there is order in this country and that there is someone who will do the work and who will take the responsibility from now on. Today, therefore, the most important decision we have to make, fellow Members, is the proposal of colleague Slavov and the Reformation bloc. Can you give me one reason why we shouldn't check to see if they belong to Homeland Security? If you like them, you can still choose them. It's not a ban, it's not lustration, it's not a brake, but to know who we choose. Not to turn out that a new committee has been elected and months later Parliament understands who these people are, what dependencies they actually have and what they intend to do. Finally, fellow Members, it is extremely important that during the hearing and election of the new KPC these people make commitments for their future work to say: on the fuel market what will they do, what will they do; why are the fuels in Bulgaria more expensive without taxes than the average European ones; say: on the drug market what will they do, what measures will they take? The election of a new KPC is one of the most important decisions of this National Assembly for 2016 and I hope, colleagues, that we will be at the height of this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u39	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u40	My fellow Members, I also believe that the issue we are discussing right now is very important. We must be absolutely convinced that people who will be elected as members of the Commission for Protection of Competition will not have any visible, at least visible, established dependencies. Because addictions in the modern world are different, but at least they won't be dependent on their guilty advice. One of the main signs of a guilty conscience is the possible belonging to the totalitarian services of the communist regime. [[Happy excitement and single applause in BSP LB.]] In our Parliament, there is a political will that has been highlighted and shown many times so far. It also allowed a number of such proposals to be made when choosing other important committees in the country. I believe there is no reason for this particular committee to make any exception. On the contrary, we must be particularly persistent here, because we are all victims and the people who have sent us to this Parliament are also victims. Our entire Bulgarian nation is suffering because we live in a society of hidden monopolies and there is no power in Bulgaria that can show them, although we see them every day and feel them through our pocket. We must therefore be absolutely guaranteed that these people we are voting for, at least with regard to this classical dependence, have no concerns, no concerns. Otherwise, if we start expressing addictions, there are now extremely modern forms of dependence: to belong to a corporate circle or to belong to a given, let's say, informal, secret organization. These are also modern dependencies, but they all lead their beginnings, their genesis on dependence on the former totalitarian communist services. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary and absolutely clear that we must show our democratic approach and show our political will that we do not want people with addictions on this committee. That is why I call on all people, all my colleagues who think this way, including GERB, including the Reformation Block, including the Patriotic Front, including the independent MPs, even our colleagues from BSP, even from ABB, even from Ataka. Not when the time comes to criticize why the commission has not told itself whether there is a cartel or not and we will not necessarily seek guilt in the government, but to seek first the guilt in ourselves what we have done so that no more such things will happen. Therefore, I ask you most strongly to support the proposal made by Mr. Peter Slavov. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u41	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u42	Madam President, honourable Members, I fully agree with the gentlemen Slavov, Mr. Martin Dimitrov and especially Mr. Metodi Andreev. For this reason, I have a concrete proposal which I ask to be put to the vote, as we are talking about something very serious...... we are choosing members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and they really, you are right, Mr. Andreev, you are right, Mr. Slavov, you are right, Mr. Dimitrov, they should not be dependent in any way on decisions, often, as you said, on billions of levs. The specific text I propose reads: I propose that after the point proposed by Mr. Slavov add to the next point: The candidate states to declare that they were not members of Masonic Lodges and secret societies, that they had not graduated from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior before 1989, that they were not judges, prosecutors and investigators before 1989 and that they were not... This name is not to be added.... were sentenced by the Ethics Committee to the National Assembly............................................................................................... This is my concrete proposal that will really eliminate the dependencies in this Commission. We cannot afford, ladies and gentlemen, to have such dependences on people condemned by the Parliamentary Ethics Commission for allowing themselves to do business in the Ministry of Interior in the regions of the country. This is essentially a sentence proposed by the Prosecutor General of the Republic, Mr. Metodi Andreev, I appeal to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u43	Please do not enter into bilateral dialogues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u44	People like you cannot be members of this Commission for Protection of Competition. How are you going to protect the competition if you're addicted? This also applies to the former prosecutors of the People's Republic of Bulgaria from the Reformation Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u45	First line, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u46	Dear Mr. Enchev, I, however you may think, will support your proposal in full. I think these addictions are really serious. I will only allow myself to state that the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission is not a court to rule, it is a political body. It was also political when a letter came to Bulgaria from the Prosecutor General outside the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In addition to the cases described, the Commission should ask itself: why does the Prosecutor General send this letter? Unfortunately, the Commission did not ask. Otherwise, I believe that my question to the Supreme Judicial Council, in which I pointed out some violations in this procedure to the Prosecutor General, there is still no answer and when in Bulgaria a citizen does not receive an answer from the Supreme Judicial Council, this means that this state does not have the rule of law and has the rule of law. But I will support your proposals in full, you can follow this moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u47	Second line, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u48	Mrs. Chairman! Colleague, I, in the form of a line rather, would like to enrich your proposal. I generally support...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u49	You'll have to make a statement, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u50	No, as a replica, only an extension to his proposal. To these dependencies that you are talking about should be added: it cannot take place in the Commission persons who are in civil organisations, which are financed by foreign countries, who have received grants from foreign countries, these civil public organisations are funded. Because to me, this is also a form of dependence, when an organization, and you get money in this organization, is funded by foreign intelligence, whether by foreign foundations, whether by foreign organizations. These are also forms of viscous, and for this reason I believe that this should also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u51	Third line? A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u52	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Andreev, I especially thank you for your support to my proposal, but as a counter-proposal I will now make a statement that in the coming weeks I will prepare a draft law which will be aligned with the State Security Act for the verification if there is a belonging to the State Security and the Intelligence Management of the Bulgarian Army. All politicians or candidates for high-ranking positions, which have been sentenced by the Parliamentary Ethics Commission on a proposal from the Prosecutor General, this is a high institution in Bulgaria in the judiciary, to be subjected to the same limits as they are subject to morally, of course, but also to lustration, as there are some texts in the Law on Electronic Media and the like that they lustre, to the same examination, to lustration, to restriction and to moral disgrace as are subjected to representatives, employees of Bulgarian intelligence and counterintelligence before 10 November 1989. I agree with you, an opposition colleague, that it really needs to be added to the text, and I immediately add it, to declare that it was not members of non-governmental organisations financed from abroad. This is an extremely important proposal. I'm sorry I couldn't have suggested it first, but thank you for your support. This is no less dependent on being convicted by the Parliamentary Ethics Commission, no less than being a junior prosecutor, as if, but a prosecutor in the People's Republic of Bulgaria, and not to mention the graduates of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior in this House there are very few people, and the Prime Minister himself is of this category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u53	Any other MPs? Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! With all the proposals made, we actually started a very important conversation. I cannot fail to share the views of all my fellow Members on the importance of both the Commission for Protection of Competition and, in particular, its President in the current legislation. This also applies to a number of other Bulgarian regulators or senior administrative posts. I cannot fail to share most of the proposals for exclusion of addictions that have been made by both secret organisations and organizations funded by a foreign country, if any, and also people who are directly connected in other ways, and not through the security services with the repressive apparatus of the communist regime. Colleagues, let us, in this conversation, in this debate and in this vote, not go into an empty populism that cannot produce a legal effect. The subject of lustration and the topic of thorough integrity check cannot be solved with some procedural rules for a particular regulator. They must be resolved with abstract norms in a law that applies to all regulators and to all senior government positions. There should also be lustration texts there, and in so far as we have a constitutional practice that excludes certain lustration texts, at least texts relating to an in-depth integrity check, a declaration of lack of belonging to secret organisations; a Commission verification of illegally acquired property of the Commission to prevent conflict of interest; a SANS report. All this should be an element of the detailed integrity check of each senior Bulgarian administrator. This work must be done by us, in this Chamber, in a separate law, not by scratching our tongues on the occasion of specific procedural rules. In this context, I would like to strongly support the proposal of my colleague Slavov because he provides for an examination which the Bulgarian law already allows to take place. Here the legislative work is done. We must now do our job to ensure that this legislative inspection is carried out in specific cases. So let us now support Mr. Slavov's proposal, and then remember the lines, because the general integrity check of senior civil servants must be accepted and must be adopted by separate law, not by private procedural rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u55	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I don't see anyone who wants to. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I won't. We're closing the debate, we're about to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Peter Slavov's proposal in Section II. 6 to add a new sentence as he presented it during his speech. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 130 MPs: 89, against 22, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from RB.]] I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov for a new version of this article. 6 in Section IV "Select a President, Vice-President and members of the KPC from the National Assembly" as suggested in his statement. They voted 137 MPs: 38, Against 55, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Velizar Enchev proposed in Section II. 6 last sentence to sound like this: The members of the commission to declare that they are not members of Masonic Lodges, Secret societies, non-governmental organizations with external funding have not graduated from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior before 1989, were not judges, prosecutors and investigators before 1989, were not convicted by the National Assembly Ethics Committee. We vote on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 23, against 43, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for the election of the National Assembly in the version of the Commission's report, in line with the additions that have been made today by the National Assembly, together with the annex to the decision, the declaration of which is the model for the Commission's report. We are voting in the Commission's version The draft decision 7 and 8 is read again, but the correct spelling is on the Commission's report. 140 MPs voted: 135, against 2, abstention 3. The rules of procedure have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u56	Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose extending the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for recognition of professional qualifications, No 502-01-97 of 24 November 2015, to be extended by another week.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u58	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Milena Damyanova. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We move on to the next item on our agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MOVEMENT IN THE ROADS. They are: MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, on 8 October 2015; Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, again on 8 October 2015; and MP Petar Slavov, on 14 October 2015. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce you to Mr. Ivan Valkov Vice-President. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mrs. Noble Makeva, Deputy Director of the Department of National Police, Mr. Ranovski, Head of the Police Department, and Mr. Tihomir Todorov, Inspector at the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u60	We vote on the proposal for admission of the persons designated by the National Representative Ivan Valkov. Vote 80 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 1. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-161, submitted by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev on 8 October 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 October 2015, a Draft Law on Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 554-01-161, submitted by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev on 08 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice. The bill was presented by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, who said that the proposed additions to the Road Traffic Act were caused by the fact that in recent times the cases in which road vehicles are managed in the lanes for the opposite movement of motorways. Such acts constitute a breach of the rules governing the arrangement of non-rail vehicles on the road, the use of the road and the compliance of road signs and road markings. According to the administrative criminal provisions currently in force in the Road Traffic Act, it is established in an analysis of the caselaw that the actors, the administrative authorities and the court, respectively, qualify this act as a violation of the rules on the use of the road. The prescribed punishment is a fine of 20 to 150 BGN. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior said they support the proposed additions to the Law. They argued that this would lead to improving the organisation of road traffic, as well as creating a better order in organising and controlling the traffic of vehicles on motorways and roads. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes in favour of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u62	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Proceed with the next report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u63	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 October 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Ivan Valkov. The main objective of the bill is the identification of measures to improve the road situation in the country, limiting and reducing the number of traffic accidents, the deaths and the wounded in road accidents. The bill provides for the introduction of an obligation to use tyres for motor vehicles intended for winter conditions between 1 November and 1 March. There is also an increase in the driver's fines which drives a motor vehicle after the use of alcohol or has refused to be checked by a technical means to detect the use of alcohol or tranquilizers. The draft law provides for a new forceful administrative measure.. Using the registration plate of the motor vehicle. It is proposed to increase sanctions for infringements relating to exceeding the maximum permitted speed of movement. A forced administrative measure shall also be introduced, as well as a temporary suspension from the movement of a road vehicle to an owner who drives a motor vehicle with a fine imposed without payment within the period of voluntary payment, as well as of an owner who, when driving a motor vehicle, exceeds the maximum permitted speed in a populated area over 50 km/h for a period of one month. The draft proposed simplification of the penalty procedure for offenders by drawing up a ticket for infringements established by a control body for which there is no right to drive a motor vehicle or to withdraw control points. According to importers, it would thus avoid the repeated search of the violator for penal decrees and shorten the period for imposing the penalty. Changes have also been made with regard to the service of electronic slips in case the person is not found at the permanent address indicated by him. In this regard, an amendment to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments is also envisaged. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u64	Mr. Valkov, proceed with the report on the next submitted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u65	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-166, submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov on 14 October 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 October 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act was discussed, No 554-01-166, submitted by the National Representative Petar Slavov on 14 October 2015. During the presentation of the Bill, the People's Representative Petar Slavov said that the proposed changes provide for updating and strengthening of the measures related to the public offences of the Road Traffic Act. The immediate withdrawal of the driving licence of the intruder shall be provided until the question of his guilt has been clarified. The bill establishes a definition of the so-called "gonki" by motor vehicles. Sanctions are provided for both the drivers involved and the organisers. The proposed bill also provides for an addition to art. 343c of the Penal Code. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 2 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. These were the three reports from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The next report was submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. It will be introduced to us by its chairman, Mr. Danail Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, honored guests! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-166, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov on 14 October 2015. At its meeting held on 3 February 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-166, submitted by Petar Slavov. The meeting was attended by Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Road Police at the Ministry of Interior, and Mrs. Katerina Hadzhieva, expert at the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate at the Ministry of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-162, was presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. The Bill aims to punish offenders more quickly and to achieve a restrictive and deterrent effect on the frequent cases of intolerant and aggressive behaviour on the road. The introduction of prohibitions and obligations for road users aimed at increasing their safety or the safety of passengers carried therein is proposed and appropriate penalties shall be provided for in the event of non-compliance. A smaller number of control points are proposed for new drivers who acquire for the first time a driving licence. Changes shall be envisaged aimed at the incompetent drivers of motor vehicles, driving after the use of alcohol or other tranquilizers and owners providing the vehicle with non-authorized or used alcohol or other tranquilizer drivers. Some of the proposals are aimed at increasing the amount of penalties in excess of the maximum permitted speed and introducing new forced administrative measures. It is also proposed to simplify the procedure for imposing penalties on offenders by drawing up a ticket for infringements, as well as a change in the arrangements for the service of electronic slips. The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 554-01-166, was presented by the importer Mr. Petar Slavov. He noted that the proposed changes aim at updating and strengthening the DMV toolkit to impose forced administrative measures which allow for immediate withdrawal of the driving licence in cases of particularly severe and socially dangerous infringements, while providing for rapid judicial control. The bill gives a legal definition of "Gonka" and provides for strict sanctions for organizers and participants in races. A change of the Criminal Code is also envisaged by proposing criminalisation of the driving of a motor vehicle within the period for which a forced administrative measure has been imposed. During the discussion the national representative Dimitar Lazarov stated his support in principle for the bill. Following a vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall: - with 10 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, without abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015; - with 10 votes for a vote, 2 votes against abstention, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-166, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate. Anyone? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u69	From the importers?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u70	I was waiting for you to give a sign, but you didn't make that request. I'll put you on the list of speakers, Mr. Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The Patriot Front Group will support all three bills at first reading. We pay particular attention to the bill by colleague Petar Slavov, who is timely and needs such a bill to counter the illegal races. In the last few days, we've witnessed another victim of these races. We will also support the draft of colleague Nastimir Ananiev. There I have a note that the fine of 3,000. BGN, colleague Ananiev, is excessive and will need to be considered on this issue between first and second readings. Regarding the proposals Draft by Mr. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs there are texts that are very good, deserve attention and should be supported, but, colleagues, there are also those who, to put it mildly, are untenable. Particular attention should be paid to them between first and second readings, because a large dose of subjectiveism is introduced in them. For example, art. 26, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be created. Alinea 2 reads as follows: In carrying out a manoeuvre, the driver is obliged to provide sufficient lateral distance between his or her road vehicle and the road vehicle around him. If anyone can explain what's under that... enough, I'd be delighted. I'm sure there isn't one that can explain what's enough distance and what's not enough. Subjectivism, which enables us to introduce the question we know from the past: now what are we going to do? Very interesting is the text in art. 132, which creates a new point 6.. it is about drivers who carry passengers. And now pay attention to this text: The driver must be careful and cautious to ensure safe carriage of passengers. Does it mean that those who do not carry passengers should be careless and not be cautious?! And I ask you, colleagues: who will be the one to judge whether the driver is careful and cautious? To this end there is a Road Traffic Act, there are Rules for implementing the Road Traffic Act. Suddenly we will apply some subjective text, probably like that Law, which we are about to see about equality between women and men, to place an appointed person who is careful, is the driver careful! I beg you, by writing these laws, to at least think about what you're writing! Such texts cannot be inserted into such a serious bill. I also pay attention to art. 139, which already introduces winter-conditioned winter-gums during the period from 1 November to 1 April. Firstly, it is good to refer to how many of the Member States of the European Union have introduced such a legislative requirement. There are only six of these six four are Scandinavian countries, and in others this is recommended. In addition, I ask you: in such a text how will you provide winter tyres for example to people who carry freight or public transport by buses? Because such winter tires don't exist. [[Reply from DPS: "This is a lobbying text! "]] I mean, someone trying to get a text through here, the first-line colleagues are calling out that it was a lobbying text...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u72	Mr. Bayraktarov, stop, please, for a second. Mr. Tsvetanov, may I ask you to assist me in not standing back to the speaker? Thank you. Continue, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, we immediately condemn all those who carry out such types of transport in intruders for the simple reason that there are no such tyres. There is then Directive 9293 in which there is no unique definition of what this winter tyre is. There are also several other recommendations in which the criteria have already been introduced - the requirement for different markings, for different numbering of types of tyres under winter conditions! So it's not a winter tyre, it's a winter tyre, it's a winter tyre. I ask you: from neighbouring Greece, in which there is no such requirement, how will tourists treat them, when they are not affected in this text, which for example come to ski in the winter of Bansko? Are we going to fine them firmly according to this text or should there be a correction in it, or is this going to be a form of revenge because now their farmers are closing the checkpoints?! This text must be carefully adjusted. Besides, I've been trying to check the temperature limits for months for the last six years. Colleagues, practical winter conditions in Bulgaria occur after 20 December and basically end at the end of February, i.e. two months. And we want people in summer conditions now, at temperatures above 20 degrees, to drive them with winter tyres, that is, they are becoming again dangerous to the road because the winter tyre according to all these studies and specifics is suitable for temperatures below 7 degrees! This is what we are talking about, a text that is unpretended; a text which clearly aims to increase the trade of winter tyres for a certain period of time, but also to create many upheavals and many confusions. So in this respect we will have comments between first and second readings and this text will have to be adjusted. It's not important that we like each other. It is important to create legislative texts that are working and not at all cost sanctioning and forcing people in difficult economic conditions to spend more money. And to understand, as I saw that some were smiling, road users were also pedestrians. Now look at your shoes and see how many of you are wearing winter shoes! [[Radio.]] Can I see how many of you are wearing winter shoes?! We're in winter conditions now. I don't think so! [[Laughter, excitement.]] You're all wearing summer shoes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u74	Mr. Bajraktarov, I believe you are going beyond the scope of the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u75	Don't tell me what range it is. I have a right to argue. And stop interrupting all the time! And by one minute increase the time of the group, because you interrupted me for no reason! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u76	Is there anyone who wants a line to Mr. Bayraktarov? [[Noise and lines.]] I can't see. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I won't comment on the subject of summer tires. I'm hearing some interesting front-row flips here. I would like to call on all three bills to support them. In my opinion, they are largely complementary, and when drawing up a joint bill, they allow really serious road traffic problems to be sought solutions. Just a few days ago, there was another problem with races, unfortunately, and deaths. Obviously, the problem is far from over, and a little bit when the weather warms up, things start over. So it's really time for this bill. I call on you, indeed, all three of us to support them and look for working solutions in order to stop really very dangerous practices, both for those involved in such events as races and for everyone else on the road who are often involuntary victims. What I am also going to say, and I would like to highlight, is on the bill that I have tabled. Perhaps you were impressed, there is a very interesting initial in the Commission, which looks at it, most of the colleagues abstained, and then the Legal Committee was supported. I hope that I have been convincing or perhaps more convincing in the Legal Commission to persuade my colleagues to support me, but I think that another factor has a positive opinion from the prosecution, which I have presented, which has appeared in the meantime, and which basically says it supports the idea of strengthening the so-called administrative measures. What's this about, guys? Very short. In fact, in the basic bill, the largest bill of colleague Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, in which, apart from the Road Traffic Act, you know that there are also changes in the Penal Code, are provided for quite severe, codifying groups to bear criminal responsibility in serious cases of participation in races, when people's lives are really directly threatened or, God forbid, there have been casualties or there have been deaths. Then there is indeed a criminal liability. Including criminal liability for those so-called "djigiti" who are driving more than 60 and more kilometers over the speed of the settlements, while at the same time, for example, what I have suggested, is that it is not really appropriate for the less important cases of such violations, i.e. serious violations, but where immediate danger to the lives and health of people is not created, there is really no direct and immediate interference of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and under the order of forced administrative measures immediately and on the spot, for example, to temporarily withdraw the driving licence until the driver's responsibility is clarified. In these cases, if there are, of course, disputes, the driver may challenge this temporary withdrawal of the driving licence before a court and prove, respectively, its right, but exclude the possibility, in an endless appeal procedure, as we often see, that the so-called In this direction are mainly the proposals I have made. I think they largely complement the heavier measures that colleagues have signed in the so-called Big Law. And that there are things to correct in all the bills I think there are. Between the two readings, we can do it. For example, I was impressed by a text about downloading the registration plates and enabling the vehicle to be driven to the place, for example, to a garage where it will be stored in the next 12 hours. Here immediately arises the question: will it be practically managed without any reference forms at all, neither front nor rear? And isn't that more than dangerous, and if something happens in this gap of its transport, so to speak, on the move, how do you determine who is responsible, whose vehicle and so on? There are things that can be fixed, but I think we can generally support all three bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Anyone for a line? I won't. The people's representative Nastimir Ananiev has signed up for a speech. Are there any members of another parliamentary group, as the rule is to alternate groups? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wanted to speak about our proposal, which we made with colleague Antony Trenchev. It covers one, I would say, perhaps a white hole in our legislation, where driving in oncoming traffic on a highway or a speeding road is not regulated. Currently, if such a violation is committed, the penalty is BGN 150. Keep in mind that both the highway and the speedway are speed roads. That's where you drive at high speed. There's even a minimum speed limit on the highway. For me, such an act is very dangerous and endangering the lives of absolutely all other actors in the movement. And here I might answer to my colleague Bayraktarov, who said 3,000 leva. Maybe it's a lot of money. No, it's not a lot of money! When on the highway, where most people are driving at 100 miles per hour, and someone in the oncoming drives at 100 miles per hour, it also endangers the lives of absolutely everyone who is involved in this movement. And 3,000 leva. It's not a small fine. In my opinion, when we first discussed the bill with colleague Antony Trenchev, we thought the fine to offer would be BGN 10 000, but we decided to raise it 20 times from BGN 150. 3,000 BGN, and also for six months to take away the ability to drive a motor vehicle. I understand there are people and adrenaline lovers. We saw two days ago in Sliven what happened two deaths, but we need to create an environment where these amateurs can practice their hobby, but this is not on a speed road and is not on a back road, so I thank both the Ministry of Interior and my colleagues from the Commission for supporting this proposal. I think it is quite reasonable and I hope that in this House, all of you will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Here's a personal explanation. The next speaker who signed up is Mr. Ivan Valkov of the GERB group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking a personal explanation procedure because my colleague Ananiev was not correct enough in his speech, quoting my name. I explicitly said that we would support your text, Mr. Ananiev, but, again, the fine of 3000 BGN is disproportionate. It would be proportionate if there was a degree of act, that is to say there is a relapse of this kind of violation, but to impose a fine that will practically become irrecoverable, you are in fact deprecating your proposal because 3,000 BGN, under the conditions of Bulgarian economic life, are practically irrecoverable amount. That's what I'm talking about. It's nice to think when you say those things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u82	Mr. Ivan Valkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Road Traffic Act, presented by Mr. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs, aims at improving traffic safety, reducing victims and injured by road accidents, which unfortunately bring many losses to our country, whether material, such as medical services, such as insurance events or as human potential. Experts estimate that these are losses worth about 2 billion each year. We, as a society, cannot allow such a thing. And what is proposed and tabled by colleagues with the other two bills, I think should be taken into account by the National Assembly and voted on. Opinions were given by MPs regarding certain specific texts. I personally accept these opinions and between first and second reading these texts can be improved, but in general the meaning of the Bill is directed in several main directions, namely to reach the fines and sanctions faster to the offenders, to have the possibility of imposing the fine and a greater percentage of the fines imposed to be collected, because at this time this percentage is too low and the meaning of the penalties and penalties themselves to have an educational and deterrent effect is not at the necessary level. The main proposals made in our bill are developed in four main guidelines. The first is for bans and obligations recorded in the Bill, the second is an increase in fines for offenders on the road, which is related to the use of alcohol above the permissible, to motor vehicles which are managed by drivers who do not have the necessary documents, and to those who refuse to be inspected. Two new administrative measures relating to infringements shall also be introduced: movement of 50 km per hour above the permitted places, non-payment of fines and obligations by drivers of motor vehicles within the established time limit. Finally, one of the latest proposals relates to faster reaching the intruder of the relevant electronic ticket. What we are offered, we believe, will lead to a higher collection of fines and will greatly increase the educational effect that administrative criminal measures should have. I call on you to support all three bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u84	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Mr. Svilensky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have deliberately waited for more colleagues to speak to hear what I have heard in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and this is where most of the participants said in the discussion that we have presented three bills that the texts are not good on all three, but let us accept them, and between first and second reading we will fix them. This was in the speeches of almost all colleagues in the Transport Commission: yes, we see, the texts are not good, they are not thought out, they are written in a hurry, but to accept them so that we can correct them between first and second readings. I will call on you not to support the texts on the two drafts: to my colleague Slavov and to my colleagues from GERB, to Krasimir Velchev and to a group of MPs, and I will try to give some arguments, but before that I would like to return the discussion on when the discussion on the issue of the safety of the movement started, and what the government did when they took over the management in this mandate. In June a broad discussion was organized in the Transport Commission with the participation of the Prosecutor General of the Republic, with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova, with the participation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Many problems have been put to this discussion, including by representatives of car crashes, of the driver I don't know if he didn't, it doesn't matter. There have been many problems, but we have all agreed that if there is no new Road Traffic Act, which I have been pleading for for for a third year, at least there should be radical changes aimed at different areas, such as driver training, such as technical security of motor vehicles, such as infrastructure, municipal and state, as a result of which several working groups have been made to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and they had to work and present some project for law, whether a new law or amendments on a larger scale had to do. So four months, until after another catastrophe and after another victim, I won't forget it, one Friday morning Prime Minister Borisov, seeing what is happening, seeing the discontent of the media and the public saying: "What's going on? Where's the law? Until Monday, the police, the Ministry of Interior, give me a law on my desk! It should be imported on Monday. And Monday, of course, the ministry isn't ready. This working group I do not know what had been done on Monday afternoon or Tuesday, colleagues from GERB quickly introduced these collected proposals, probably from many associations, from many associations, from many different representatives, and proposed this type of bill. However, honourable Members, then Minister Bachvarova said so: I take over the manual safety of the traffic on the streets. And I ask: where is Minister Bachvarova today? Where is a deputy minister of the interior? Yes, my esteemed Mr. Ranowski is here. I understand there's an inspector from the Road Police Department. I'm missing a traffic cop, an ordinary traffic cop who's on the road every day to tell us if we're somewhere wrong with implementing the bill. And now it's specific to the bills. Mr. Ananiev's proposal for driving in opposite lanes on the highway is going to support this proposal, as it is indeed a violation bordering on madness and there is no normal person who does not support it. Of course, the amount of the fine may be nice to discuss between first and second readings. And 3,000 leva, when you walk into the opposite side of the highway, I think if you can get it together, it's a good fine. According to Mr. Slavov's proposal, I understand the desire to solve the race problem, the so-called Gonki, only nowhere in your proposal, Mr. Slavov, we do not have a definition of what is gonka. [[Noise and lines.]] No, I've read it very well! I've read it very well and then come out and give me a line. Your other offer... [[Replys from the right.]] Mr. Chairman, if the MPs are not interested in the discussion, there are enough other activities in parliament, they can come out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u86	Mr. Svilensky, get to the point. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u87	I think I'm getting to the point all the time. I haven't been out in a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u88	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u89	On your second proposal, Mr. Slavov, about taking away a driving licence in the middle or severe bodily injury. You are sure yourself that there is no one to prove on the ground what the blame is and you propose that this be done in a year and a half. Can't in an accident, let's have the representatives of the Road Police say, on the spot, can they determine guilt and determine the extent of bodily harm. Otherwise, of course, when proven, and when there is such damage, the intruder must have his license revoked. On the proposal of colleagues from GERB, I said why we will not accept it. Yes, indeed, there are proposals on the texts that increase penalties for alcohol use, speeding, but, honourable Members, there is no attitude towards young drivers. The only thing you are proposing is to reduce the number of control points from 39 to 26, but the number of control points does not make the driver more able, does not make him more experienced on the road. I'll give you an example: a few months ago a young man of 21 years on his way back from Vitosha hit a pedestrian on the road at night. I ask: if this driver had 26 points, would he have made that violation again? Of course that's not the measure. We are talking about a broader attitude towards young drivers, including with restrictions on their ability to drive a certain type of car, about the possibility of driving people in the dark part of the day, but this should have happened in the discussion that I expected to take place in a year and ultimately specialists would come out and offer specific texts. For this reason, our parliamentary group will not support the two bills and we continue to expect future debate and future action to take concrete measures to address safety. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u90	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Svilenski, most well-intentioned to you, you are always speaking prepared, but in this case you have obviously not read carefully, because in the Bill you mention and to which I am an importer, if you look at § 7, additional provisions. You can read it, I'm not gonna read it, I'm gonna waste time at the gym. I would like to draw your attention to something else that seems important to me, and I hope that it will help colleagues to understand the meaning of the forced administrative measure in relation to the other sanctions imposed under the Road Traffic Act. The difference is one, and it is fundamental: the forced administrative measure is imposed on the spot by the authority of the Ministry of Interior, i.e. it has immediate effect, while for the other sanctions imposed, an act establishing an administrative infringement, after which a criminal order is drawn up, there are complex service procedures and until these criminal decrees come into force, it often passes a long time. Here we have tried with the bills to solve this problem, but I am still paying attention to one case really, for very difficult cases, justified this intervention and literally stopped further involvement of the guilty driver in the movement until the final clarification of the issue of his liability, while in other minor cases, where there are also fines with a ticket, and only monetary penalties, things stand differently. In order to complete my reply, I would like to draw your attention precisely to the forced administrative measures that currently exist in the Road Traffic Act and what you have addressed to me. At the moment, the Law says that the driving licence of a driver can immediately be revoked, which I clearly stress, clearly does not meet the medical and psychological requirements for this. Come on, now you tell me about the DMV organ which is easier to establish: is it, for example, the average or severe bodily injury that constitutes a broken leg or a commotion or visible damage to the injured person, or does it clearly not meet the medical and psychological requirements to drive a car? It seems to me that the first one is considerably easier. Given that there is a similar forceful administrative measure at the moment, nothing prevents us from completing it with cases where really severe and medium-sized bodily damage is caused, because obviously this is not about harmless cases, it is, you know, and criminal liability afterwards, that this driver can immediately be stopped from moving. Maybe tomorrow someone else will do the same thing. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u92	Second line.. People's representative Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilenski, first of all I would like to thank you for your declared support for our proposal with colleague Ananiev. I believe that we are making an appropriate proposal. As you described the situation, what happens when you drive across the highway is purely and simply madness. You know, we can imagine someone traveling at 90 miles of law, and in the opposite direction, someone is moving at about the same speed, so the potential for a fatal outcome of such a situation is really quite high. It is very important for me not to be tempted to try to put a price on human life in any way to calculate what that would mean. From this point of view, the 3,000. lv. there are many or few, on the contrary there are rather insufficient, but still the arguments in the direction of collection are valid, there is indeed a problem. I believe that this is a problem of a much wider nature and affects every aspect when such fines are collected, in general throughout the administration in the country, so we need to take a much wider approach to solving this problem. And the last thing I want to say is, with this measure, we are looking for prevention, that is, when one realizes what a big fine it is to act as a barrier not to do the deed. That's the point of a greater fine of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Mr. Svilensky, would you like to use the right for the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! To my colleague Trenchev, I don't think there was a specific line to me. Yes, I agree, I told you: let it be as you suggested, and now between first and second readings in the Commission we will discuss it. Mr. Slavov, in your line, I didn't want to read what is the concept that you have formulated, about the "Gonka" but now I will read it so that colleagues can understand what you are proposing and why we do not support it: I ask: Is the airport in Sliven for public use and do you solve this problem with the text? In order to achieve the fastest possible time, the Commission shall take into account the time when each of them passes a given distance, without the permission of the administration to drive the road. Mr. Slavov, I ask you the following question: if you and I stand on the Eagle Bridge and go in the direction of Burgas, the Trakiya Highway, and understand which one of us will get there first, without exceeding, without breaking the restrictions on the highway I, driving by 90, you, driving by 110, are we in the hypothesis of a race? Yeah, we're getting ahead of ourselves, yeah, we've set a goal, but none of us is breaking traffic rules. In this case, we're both for impounding cars. That's why I'm saying that the term you tried to describe is not the one you should. Let the lawyers intervene and say what the text should be, so that it is applied and not just say "gonka" because there is a race in other places, not only of street movements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u96	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. For speech were signed by the MPs Ms. Nelly Petrova and Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. Prior to that, Mr. Ranovski, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Interior, according to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, you have the right to take the floor in plenary. If you think so, raise your hand and give me a sign. I give the floor to the MP Mr. Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted in favour of the Law Commission and the three draft laws, despite the opinions already expressed at the time, that some texts should be corrected. I would like to remind my fellow Members that we are talking about a Road Traffic Act which does not regulate the movement of motor vehicles in the fields, in the forests, at sports sites, or at airports. After all, we are talking about regulation. The Road Traffic Act regulates the traffic of motor vehicles on the road, the Republican Road Network It is strange to me how it is expressed that, you see, there was a proposal, but since there was no part in the submitted bills that concerned a certain category of drivers, it would not be supported. By the way, I looked at the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly so that it would not accidentally have dropped the text where, between first and second reading, the Members of the National Assembly could make proposals. No, he's not weak. I was worried at one point that this proposal might have been voted on when I was absent. So much for that reason. I have critical remarks as a lawyer, but in principle the bills must be adopted, a balance must be found, because the following points are for amendment to the Criminal Code, which also concern road accidents. There perhaps it is more appropriate to find a place that is proposed for administrative withdrawal, I am talking about the prior withdrawal of the driving licence, because in a traffic accident, when there is significant damage or damage, there is pre-trial proceedings and the court is the authority that can deprive a certain driver of the right to drive a motor vehicle. The preliminary administrative withdrawal is a preliminary act, but this must be done under the control of the court and at the request of the prosecutor, who is aware of the outcome of this pre-trial proceedings, in order not to fall into the other hypothesis, which has been the practice of a dozen years ago, the administrative authorities of the KAT took away the driving licence and when the case goes four-five-six years and cannot end in the judicial phase, it turns out that this is a waiver of the right of a professional driver, who, for example, runs a bus, to exercise his profession, here a balance must be found. There should be a possibility that it is not only when alcohol is used where this is happening. It must be possible for the court to withdraw the driving licence in advance in the case of certain hypotheses. Let's not forget that for the most part, these accidents are reckless. I don't think any moderate or severe bodily harm... Moreover, my colleague Svilenski was right when he said that at one initial stage, it was very difficult to determine, especially when the accident was between two and sometimes three cars, who was responsible and whether there was a coincidence of the other accomplices or the pedestrian. Measures must be taken. They must be serious. There must also be prevention in the part about stopping the motor vehicle for a certain period of time after the use of alcohol. As far as the races are concerned, honourable Members, there is a Article now in the Penal Code. 325, as long as the competent authorities establish those who rudely violate public order, openly or clearly tend to show disregard for the laws, in this case the Road Traffic Act, and govern at an excessive speed or make races that offend society. The text is about hooliganism and applies where evidence is collected. Very quickly and easily proved, however, as long as evidence is collected quickly for the people involved and those citizens who are outraged. Very often we see that on TV they show such footage. I doubt there'll be a prosecution or a court that doesn't rule on cases like this. It's about collecting evidence and proving it. I urge you to uphold the laws. Between first and second readings, colleagues who believe that there are no texts, let them bring them in. The rules are still the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Lazarov, I will give you a reply in the direction of what you have said that you also do not like the texts, but between first and second reading you expect to change. Yes, the Rules have not changed, but I cannot imagine a bill tabled by 60-70 MPs and not to like them all. But between first and second reading you will probably all make other suggestions. After all, the meaning of legislative work is what is being imported, to discuss it. Otherwise, let us submit only the title of the law, the Law on Road Traffic, first reading, and between first and second reading to make suggestions on the texts as they should be. I know exactly how the Rules work and what rules we work on, but at least I don't like the approach. A bill cannot be tabled which, between first and second readings, will undergo a 90% change. So much for the legislative work. With regard to the races, you yourself said that this was regulated in the Road Traffic Act concerning road infrastructure. But we're having trouble with races and other places. That's what we have to decide. Most accidents and tragic accidents happen on unregulated roads. Come on, we're not gonna see them in the Road Traffic Act, but we have to say where we're setting it up. I agree with you that at the moment we can deal with this problem as long as there is the will of the control authorities to comply with the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u100	Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u101	Mrs. Chairman! My dear colleague, I didn't say I didn't like the law. I'm one of the importers. Let's not use words freely, as if we were transferring things or objects. I said that there are texts that should be refined between first and second readings. Please, I listened carefully to the debate and speakers before colleagues who had remarks did not say that they did not like the laws. They said he needed to be refined. I don't want to go into details about what regulated and unregulated roads mean. The debate is starting to become professional. By the way, these bills are dated October 2015. We are now almost the end of February 2016.If anyone had a legislative initiative regarding the Road Traffic Act, they could have submitted a bill and now to these three bills submitted at different times, we could have added a fourth bill and looked at them. But I can't accept the position of me, there is some regulation in many proposals, it is good, timely and debatable, but there is something missing. This is a matter of judging your parliamentary group, insofar as there is no legislative initiative in this way, looking for justification in the other parliamentary groups for having them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u102	The next statement is from Mrs. Nelly Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a person who travels a thousand kilometers a week on the roads of Bulgaria, I see what is happening. Many of you know that the whole of Bulgaria is covered with monuments of dead people, of children, not even always of people who are guilty in some way for the accident. I'll express my opinion first. I believe, and you will probably support me, that the Road Traffic Act is the most frequently amended Law. I think there should be a whole new Road Traffic Act. I think we just need to figure this out. I rely on my colleagues, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Interior. I listened with interest to all the colleagues who spoke. I think we don't have a difference in the fact that we all want to somehow make the jigs, make the young leaders somehow be disciplined. I think only high fines can prevent people who are not accustomed to obeying the laws of people who think they are not caught by the law... Specifically about Mr. Ananiev's proposal for the fine of 3000 leva. We need to back him up. I'm sure all of you in your populated areas see and know that races are taking place on the central boulevards of our cities. You all know and see that many drivers pass on a red light, do not observe absolutely any restrictions and signs. I think it is right, and we need to support the bills and between first and second readings we need to submit some proposals, I think. There is nothing to hide and not to say that the Bulgarian is heavily drinking alcohol and gets on the motor vehicle; drives drunk, drives speeding, drives without a driver's license. I hope that we will all support the three bills in order to change something so that we do not see any more monuments and perhaps to save our children. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u104	- What's the line? To make a statement there is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! All three bills have their pluses even I think the pros are more than the minuses and we could safely support them. I'd just like to do a reshuffle in two of the texts. One text belongs to Mr. Velchev, which refers to the emergency tape. When we are talking about moving in the emergency lane, let us not forget that the proposal to stop in the emergency lane only if there is an accident of the vehicle restricts the driver of the motor vehicle quite a bit, as the emergency lane can also be stopped for many other reasons the health condition of the driver, the condition of the passengers in the car, first of all the small children, and why not stop in the emergency lane to provide assistance to an emergency vehicle. This can happen to more than one car. Such a limitation in this text seems to me that it should be refined, otherwise it is a very good idea. As for the penalty for entering oncoming traffic, driving in oncoming traffic, it seems to me that the sanction offered is a petting to the head. This is basically an attempt at murder, driving across the street, and in most cases, when we've seen this with video footage uploaded to Youtube and the Internet, it's about riding in the opposite lane at a very high speed. It seems to me that here the text should be refined and the penalty should be radically increased. I would even suggest withdrawing the driver's license or confiscating the car, and why not both, if there are aggravating circumstances which, of course, could only be applied if the intruder is caught, because in most cases we observe these violations only on the Internet. I don't remember, or at least I don't know, there's no record of a case where the intruder was caught precisely because of the high speed at which he was moving and because of the shock that occurred in the participants in this movement. Therefore, I propose that a move in the oncoming movement....the text should undergo a change with a radical increase in sanctions, including the confiscation of the vehicle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u106	- What's the line? I won't. To make a statement, I mean I mean Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u107	Madam President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. Indeed, today we are discussing this Law as a result of an extremely high public need to start a debate on this subject, as road war has not stopped perhaps more than a decade and a half with terrifying results. For all who have been acquainted with this Bill, some of us have even signed it, of course, with some remarks to some of the texts that I believe may be faced between first and second readings, it is clear that several groups of problems that need to be attacked, because road war is a function not only of lack of punishment, that is, of impunity which has been cultivated in the last decades in drivers, it is a function of a sense of irresponsibility and disrespect for the law, even a cultivated feeling that the Law of Road Traffic can quite calmly be violated. I believe that with regard to impunity, this Law will significantly change things in Bulgaria with the measures it provides for the removal of registration plates, with the fact that we will be able to announce penal decrees in another way and in the end will avoid the situation in which thousands of penal decrees and acts remain unmanaged. I think things are gonna start to change. What I would like to draw attention to is in another direction, it is not just about legislative activity, but perhaps rather about the work of the executive, because the sense of irresponsibility will not be changed by law, disrespect for the provisions of the law and the desire of people to show that these are the most easily violated matter and rules, will not be changed by these texts. I think it is right for the executive, once we adopt the texts, to do what is necessary for the training of drivers and for the upbringing at all perhaps from an early age in respect of other people's lives, in respect of the rules, because everything else will be in vain as effort. Otherwise, we'll continue to play guards and Apaches with varying degrees of success. In conclusion, the Patriot Front Group will support these texts. We have a few comments on the details that we will make between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u108	Thank you to Mr. Vesselinoff. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u109	Dear Mr. Veselinov, I agree with you that there should be prevention. But since you said to do everything possible to train motor drivers, expressing consent, I think we're somehow missing out on other road users. Not only drivers are always, at any time, responsible for causing road accidents. We really need to take serious measures to prevent and train children - some of them may become drivers, others may not become drivers of motor vehicles, but almost everyone is involved in the road traffic. You say that there should be respect for the law, I agree with you, but also the topic which has been discussed for many years. If you go down a first-class or second-class road, you will see so many road signs, so many restrictions, some of them are from years ago, their need has dropped. The leaders see this, they realize it, they don't follow this sign, and by the same logic they don't respect the next one that's important. Not to mention how many road restrictions there are. In total violation of the requirement of the law, without any entry bar in the appropriate path, perpendicularly exit immediately, a sign shall be placed. Speaking in principle of prevention not only of increasing the sanctions that these laws provide, let us then also take a prevention campaign for road users and look at the sign farm not only where they are not there, but also where they are absolutely out of place, absolutely unnecessary or placed in violation of the requirements of the laws. Otherwise, I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u110	Second line? I won't. The hole is a real Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u111	Mr. Lazarov, you've actually developed my thesis. I completely agree with what you said. And I didn't say anything, and I didn't say that people should be trained from childhood in respect of the Road Traffic Act, of course, not just those who will become leaders. You have raised a very important topic....why do most of the leaders, with such ease, break this Law? Because the socio-economic conditions are changing until a great deal of regulation and regulation on the roads is changing. It's a fact. I think that the previous National Assembly was the only thing that was allowed to begin the debate about increasing the allowed speed of the highways, something that was then presented as an apocalypse, if memory serves me right. You can see there were no apocalyptic consequences. On the other hand, a normal transmission of highways was introduced. It is right to ask questions and continue this debate. In fact, that is also part of the statement. We really shouldn't just talk about punishments, we should grow the complex measures that need to be taken, first of all, in order for the law to be applicable to modernity. You have, for example, a limit of 90 km per hour, let's say, for first-class roads, it's when the best car was a Mosquich, where with a modern car and with current road parameters, say, 100 or 110 km is absolutely permissible and safe speed. Again, this is the opening debate. So I made the statement so that we wouldn't think that only with these texts would we solve the safety of road traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs to enter the hall. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Road Traffic Act with No 554-01-161, submitted by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev on 8 October 2015. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. Vote 100 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Draft No 554-01-166, tabled by Petar Slavov on 14 October 2015. They voted 100 MPs: 39, against 1, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we're gonna take the 12:00 break now. There's a second vote coming up at 12:00. Please be in the hall. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u113	Honourable Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda and it is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to the People's Representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. At its meeting on 3 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Noble Makeva, Deputy Director of the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Boyko Ranovski, Head of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-163, was presented by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. The bill provides for several groups of amendments. A change in the legal framework of the exemption from criminal liability with the imposition of administrative punishment is proposed, excluding the possibility of applying the institute when the act of a minor has caused serious bodily injury or death, or the child has been in a drunken state, as well as in multiple crimes, and when the offence has been committed against an authority in the course of or on the occasion of the performance of his office. The introduction of new compositions of crime related to the violation of road traffic rules is envisaged. In this regard, it is proposed the introduction of a qualified composition of hooliganism which increases the penalty for this crime when it is committed in driving a motor vehicle and provides for the cumulative imposition of the penalty of deprivation of the right to pursue a particular profession or activity. With the proposed changes in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Penal Code aims to exclude the possibility of termination of criminal proceedings at the request of the victim when serious or moderate bodily injury has occurred as a result of the offence and, for the last five years, criminal proceedings against the child have already been terminated on that basis. Incriminating the maximum permitted speed at more than 60 km/h is available. The Bill also provides for an addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure to regulate a new measure of procedural coercion. The temporary withdrawal of the driving licence as well as the procedure for its imposition. The President of the Commission Mr. Kirilov presented the opinions received on the bill. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Dimitar Lazarov, Philip Popov, Petar Slavov, Chavdar Georgiev, Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Emil Dimitrov. People's representatives Filip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev presented their arguments against discussions Draft. The other MPs justified the need for principled support of the Bill, noting the possibility of clarifying some of the proposed provisions. After a vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the Criminal Code, 2 votes against the Criminal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Lyubomir Velchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 October 2015, submitted by Krassimir Lyubomir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u115	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. For a procedure.. the people representative Stanislav Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for admission to the hall of colleagues from the Directorate-General of the National Police and Mrs. Noble Makeva, Mr. Boyko Ranovski and Mr. Tihomir Todorov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u117	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 64 MPs: 64, no opposition and no abstentions. Please invite the faces to the hall. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Vice-President Ivan Valkov. You have the floor, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 28 October 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code was discussed, No 554-01-163, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior and Mr. Petko Petkov, Deputy Minister of Justice. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Grozdan Karadzhov. It is proposed to introduce increased criminal liability for a driver who has committed indecent acts that grossly violate public order and express obvious disrespect for society when they are committed in driving a motor vehicle, including when the act is accompanied by resistance against an authority or a representative of the public performing public policy obligations, or where it is based on its content with exceptional cynicism or audacity. Certain provisions provide for the withdrawal of the possibility of termination of criminal proceedings at the request of the victim when serious or moderate bodily injury is caused by acts of negligence. The new al. 5 of art. 343b envisions punishing a leader with imprisonment for up to three years in excess of the maximum permitted speed of more than 60 km/h established in due order. The bill shall specify the provision of art. 345, as in para. 1 specify the terms used, and in the new para. 2 shall incriminate the operation of an unregistered motor vehicle under the proper order. A final provision of the Bill provides for an addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 69a shall enable the prosecutor to grant a temporary revocation of the driving licence of a motor vehicle where the accused is attracted to a crime under Chapter 11, Section II of the special part of the Penal Code, resulting in death or bodily injury, as well as a crime under Art. 325, para. Z of the Penal Code. In the course of the debates on the Bill, it was noted that at present, there is no legal possibility for the driver to be deprived of his right to drive a motor vehicle. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 10 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to present the bill? There aren't any. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To a large extent, the debate on this point will be a continuation of the next point, so some of the arguments will be conveniently saved. In any case, we are continuing with the policy of deepening repression over outstanding drivers, which obviously makes some sense in view of the situation in the country. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposed Bill at first reading. We are expressing special reservations on the subject of the text, which provides for criminalisation of speeding over 60 km/h, as we believe that such criminalisation of this act does not correspond to the extent of its public danger. Moreover, since we have a hypothesis in which there is no extreme negative result for society or for someone in particular, situations can occur where even inadvertently the driver will fall under the impact of this hypothesis. For example, by beating a heavy cargo truck, the driver could not fail to notice a stop limit of 30 km/h, as colleague Lazarov said, such restrictions have filled our paths, often without any logic, driving even 90 km/h from 30 to 60 km/h, at 90 km/h, may prove to be a criminal, which I think is not the goal of the Law. Perhaps there is a question of whether such an excess in settlements could be criminalised in view of the really increased danger to pedestrians and other motor vehicles. In any case, the introduction of such a universal rule at second reading will not have the support of the Patriotic Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Mr. Ivanov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is the next speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed amendment and supplement of the Criminal Code is very much relevant given the recent discussion regarding traffic safety and quite often the incidents occurring on the Bulgarian roads and the giving of victims. Indeed, some of the problems we face are largely due to gaps in Bulgarian legislation, but I think we should not go into extremes. What do I mean? One of the texts proposed by importers, namely the proposal for a new art. 343b, para. 5, where speeding is incriminated, more questions are raised than answers and what effect will be achieved with such a thing. I would just remind the Members of the National Assembly that elements of the generic concept of crime are actions. In practice, all five must be present in order to be able to classify an act as a crime at all. The most significant public relations and this public danger exists independently before the legislative assessment of the nature of the act. I ask here, what is the most significant social relationship that affects such a thing? Indeed, we need to treat such violations irreconcilable, but we need to refer them to the "Crime" column. I think it's a little excessive. There are plenty of other methods, such as increasing the penalty, withdrawing a motor vehicle and something else, but the number of drivers who would find themselves in the situation to be criminals, I think it's more than frightening. Including I think that not a small part of the MPs here in this House can very quickly enter this category. Here also arises the question if this punishment is adopted by the majority and enters into force, whether it will apply to those who benefit from cars with a special way of movement for Prime Minister, Ministers, President of the National Assembly who regularly violate the Rules of Procedure. We also have enough cases where there are accidents as a result of speeding by such drivers. A ground for precedent shall be established with regard to the speed distortion at which we normally travel on the roads. This is one of the reasons why our parliamentary group will refrain from supporting this bill. There are plenty of other controversial texts. For example, is it necessary to criminalise the very behaviour of drivers during the driving and driving of the motor vehicle or not to impose a more serious penalty? We believe that in these cases the punishment is certainly disproportionate to the degree of public danger. This thing really needs to be reconsidered and we need to look for a way to sharpen the attention of the drivers themselves, to make them somehow more responsible for their duties when driving motor vehicles and not directly making them criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the discussion. We will proceed to the vote of the Bill..................... the Members of the National Assembly will order the House to participate in the vote. I vote on Draft Law No 554-01-163, tabled by Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. Vote 82 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 14. The amendment and Appendix to the Criminal Code is adopted at first reading. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTION FOR THE LEGALITY OF WOMANS AND MEN. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 20 November 2015. A report from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Ademov, please come as President of the Commission to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 10 February 2016, discussed and discussed the Law on Equality of Women and Men, tabled by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the administration of the Ombudsman, representatives of NGOs working on equality of women and men. The project was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He pointed out that the development of the draft Law is in implementation of a measure for adoption of the Law on Gender Equality and Institutionalisation of the National Mechanism on Equality of Women and Men under Objective 32: "Encouraging equality between women and men and the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In 2016, Bulgaria should submit to the UN another periodic implementation report the provisions of the said Convention to take account of the implementation of the recommendations. The proposed bill is prepared by a working group, which presents all the institutions and NGOs concerned. It has been discussed several times in the National Council on Equality of Women and Men at the Council of Ministers and has been subject to public discussions before being submitted to the Council of Ministers. According to importers, the bill meets the need for more effective regulation in terms of equality between women and men. Its aim is to create conditions for the implementation of a single, sustainable state policy for equality between women and men. Given the horizontal, cross-sectoral nature of this policy, this is proposed to be achieved by establishing an institutional mechanism for policy implementation at all levels of management by including all stakeholders in the process of formulating solutions in the field of equal opportunities policies for women and men. The draft provides for the objective to be achieved by implementing specific measures laid down in national strategic documents and plans for their implementation. Temporary incentive measures are envisaged until a balance of status and representation is reached in areas where inequalities are identified. The importers stress that the Bill will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. The Commission received opinions from the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and a number of non-governmental organizations bringing together organizations working on different aspects of gender equality. All opinions generally support the Bill and welcome the existence of political will to adopt such a Law. In his opinion, the Ombudsman welcomed the creation of such a bill to meet commitments made by the country on a number of international acts to protect the rights of women and men. The opinion stresses that the adoption of this Law will answer all issues relating to equality which cannot be resolved by the provisions of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. There are also concerns that the Law is formal and affirms an already existing situation which only legalises by legal means legislative, and does not bring anything to the resolution of existing problems to achieve gender equality. The Ombudsman considers it appropriate to coordinate the development of specific measures and commitments together with the non-governmental sector to make the Law operational. Similar opinions were expressed by the non-governmental organizations "Gender project in Bulgaria" Foundation "Animus", Association of Women Lawyers, Alliance for Protection against Gender-Based Violence. It was underlined that the Bill should explicitly define priority areas for achieving the objectives. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria is of the opinion that the objectives of the Law should be further specified so as to cover the problems not only of equal treatment and non-discrimination, but also the fight against professional segregation, the fight against the differences in pay for equal or equal work between women and men through complemented and specified state policies. The Center for Women's Studies and Policies believes that the adoption of such a Law has been delayed over time and that in the case of the changed realities in Bulgaria there are already instruments as well as legislation on individual complaints related to gender inequality, including on many other indications and these cases are decided by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. They stress that the bill is framework and should not include certain areas, but should, based on data and indicators, create a system by which the state should take measures and plan measures where, according to the data, some gender inequality will occur. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Stefan Kenov, Svetlana Angelova, Mariana Todorova, Georgi Gokov, Dimitar Tanev, Hasan Ademov, who expressed principle support for the need to adopt such a Law. National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov believes that the bill is emptied of content, which is why the areas in which inequality exists should be mentioned. According to him, it must be determined whether the Law should be about equality between women and men, or about gender equality, because it must be in line with the index for measuring equality. People's representative Stefan Kenov also believes that the bill lacks content, clear measures for policy implementation, but it is necessary to take this step with the adoption of such a law, which the Bulgarian society needs. From the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB and the ABB Parliamentary Group admire the government for the submitted bill, which is an indication of commitment to equality issues and a path for creating guarantees to support policies related to equal opportunities for women and men. A readiness was announced on the basis of the proposals from interested parties to work between first and second readings so that a really working Law was adopted, to which the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria joined. National Representative Dimitar Tanev stressed that if there is no readiness for concrete measures and for specific policy, it is better to have consent and sufficient time to develop them. After the discussion is concluded and the vote with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft law on advocacy of women and men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. There is another report from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 18 February 2016, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Irina Ivanova, Head of the Department of the Department of the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids, and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov. He explained that the aim of the bill is to ensure equality between women and men by regulatory regulation of bodies and mechanisms for conducting a single and sustainable state policy in the field of equal opportunities for women and men. It is prepared in implementation of national programming documents and commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria under international contracts. The bill has a frame character. It regulates the bodies, the principles on which state policy is based in this area, outline the powers and interaction of the authorities. The figure of the coordinator on equality between women and men is institutionalized, who is an employee in the central and territorial bodies of the executive and is defined. The main documents of the state policy are laid down "National strategy, action plans, periodic reports and reporting." The draft Law was drawn up with the active participation of NGOs, a series of public discussions were held in this area. It is discussed at several meetings of the National Council for Equality between Women and Men at the Council of Ministers and at a public discussion organised by the Ombudsman. The President of the Commission pointed out that the views of the Ombudsman and the Commission on protection against discrimination support and welcome the implementation of the bill. In the Ombudsman's opinion, criticism is also voiced and there is a desire to submit proposals between his first and second votes. The President of the Commission said that the opinion of women in the public and political life of the country was imposed in the Bulgarian society. Mr. Velchev presented data on participation of women both at central and local level. He noted that many women hold senior government positions and have established themselves as successful politicians. The discussion was attended by the MPs Irena Sokolova, Evgeni Stoev and Vasil Antonov. They expressed their support for the bill and asked questions to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The questions asked were related to the envisaged changes in the legislation in force after the adoption of the bill, as well as to the alignment of the years between women and men in retirement. Mr. Lazarov answered his questions. He said that since the bill is a framework, after its adoption it will specify the change in the current legislation that will result from it. State policy is linked to the gradual and smooth alignment of retirement age for women and men and is embedded in pension reform. After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 13 votes in favour, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u127	Thank you. This is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. Would you like to present the bill on behalf of the importers? [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.]] I'm opening the discussion. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, this is another bill, as I said in the Commission, emptied of any content. To tell you the truth, when I read it, I had a feeling that someone had promised women the 8th of March law as a gift. We all love women, we all enjoy them, there's nothing better than them. Naturally, if we have to open the clamp, there are some others that you have accepted, colleagues, as a third gender, they may not enjoy women, they may not enjoy men to be equal. But let's be serious. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in order for such a Law to exist, there must be a clear, precise and definite definition of the areas in which such gender inequality exists between women and men. Unfortunately, there is no database in the Republic of Bulgaria, information to indicate in which areas there may be inequalities. As far as inequality is concerned, it is treated in the Law on Protection against Discrimination. The vast majority of these forms of inequality actually represent discrimination by gender. Moreover, there is no measure by which to measure it. There is one gender inequality index in the European Union. If I had the time, I would tell you how this index was created, what is the participation of Bulgarian NGOs in its preparation, but, unfortunately, I do not have one. The participants themselves have repeatedly admitted to me that this is actually an index that has no value. However, let us focus on the philosophy of the Law. Everything I said, first of all, through this bill implies the launch of a mad spending of funds by creating in art. 6 of the National Equality Council. Here, however, I must immediately transfer you to the Law on Legislative Acts and ask the importer: how much will it cost the Bulgarian taxpayer the maintenance of this National Council? By the way, congratulations, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! You will be President of the Council under this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u129	It's him!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u130	There is no word what the value will be, that is, the Bulgarian taxpayer will also have to be charged with paying expenses for something in someone's head. We're moving on. An extremely interesting text, colleagues, in which according to art. 8, para. 1 the central and territorial authorities of the executive shall designate an employee to perform the functions of coordinator on equality between women and men. Now tell me: who will this employee be, what criteria will he meet? What education will this employee have to attend in all such central and local authorities? And how much will that cost, I repeat, the taxpayers as payment? Moreover, if you read carefully, you will see that it must have a job description in which it has all its functions. How are they going to be at stake, how am I going to determine who's equal and who's unequal? I just don't want to talk about it. If we have to adopt a Law because this is what someone has decided, I repeat, possibly to give a gift to the Bulgarian women for 8 March, emptied of content, it is a bad gift. It's a bad gift! It is not serious and disrespectful, fellow Members, to adopt a Law that actually has no content but idle talk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u131	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. There are two lines. Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, colleagues! I take the floor to make a reply to Mr. Bajraktarov because he said some inaccuracies, untruths in his speech regarding the National Council on Equality. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Please don't interrupt me. No one was interrupting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u133	Mr. Bayraktarov, you will have the opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u134	When qualifications are made, you must take action!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u135	I cannot be a reviewer until I hear from Mrs. Angelova whether her objections are justified. I'll give you a chance. Since you are asking me to be an arbitrator on allegations of facts, let the facts be presented and then judge.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The National Council on Equality of Women and Men will not be established, it is already functioning. It was created in 2004. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Apparently you haven't read, Mr. Bayraktarov. The National Council consists of representatives of ministries, state executive agencies and other bodies, representatives of NGOs. When members of the National Council meet, they shall not be paid in respect of the meetings in which they participate. The entire Law, including, as I told you, regarding the meetings of the National Council on Equality of Women and Men, does not require any additional funds, and this is highlighted in the motives of the Bill. So another time, when you go out on this high stage, you should prepare yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Kirilov has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I take the floor for a reply in view of my disagreement with your argumentation and to tell you, in gender, I do not feel worthy of your attack on this bill. I believe that the bill proposed to us is meaningful, justified, provides for a good institutional framework, provides for coordination between the institutions. As a former regional governor of Sofia, I welcome the commitments that are also given to the regional governors, and I consider them to be meaningful and justified. I would like to emphasise this: this bill is part of our civilisational integration into the values of Europe. I hope that we will soon discuss the signing and ratification of the so-called Istanbul Convention. If you object to this Bill, I suppose that the values of Europe expressed in the Istanbul Convention will be very difficult to understand and react to. On the issue of money, I would say: if money is a problem, then for this case it should be generously invested in solving all cases and clearance of gender rights. I am also considering this Bill as part of our commitments to prevent violence against women and development, which also lies ahead of us, of the Law on Combating Domestic Violence, where we are also backward. I thank the Council of Ministers for the bill tabled. I'll support him myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u139	Thank you. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[(Reply from GERB:]] Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u141	Mr. Bayraktarov, I didn't intervene. The chairman is everyone who is in charge of the sitting, if you care about precision and not other things. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u142	You took me exactly 20 seconds, which I should take. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u143	I took you away because you pretend to be punctual and not always is. Please, I won't take up any of this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u144	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u145	I'm going to make you a note, because you should stick to the rules. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u146	It says in the Rules: Chairman. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u147	First to respond to Mrs. Angelova's line. The law is brand-new, which is the first time you've seen it. Citing the texts in the Law, I have told the absolute truth, which is fixed in art. 6, as regards this authority. As for Mr. Daniel Kirilov's line. Firstly, dear Mr. Kirilov, especially when you talk about civilisational values, it is insulting in the 21st century to consider a Law that speaks of inequality between men and women. That's insulting! Secondly, if you do not know, I can tell you, for example, some historical facts that Bulgaria is one of the first countries in the world that has given Bulgarian women the right to vote and a number of other powers that have not existed in the so-called European countries for years. Because you're talking about civilization. I have not heard an argument from you or from Mrs. Angelova, I repeat, in which areas in Bulgaria is an inequality between Bulgarian men and Bulgarian women?! Secondly, on this subject, who is the uneven one ultimately? Women or men? Who are the more uneven ones? Do you understand what debate you are putting the National Assembly into, which is humiliating in the 21st century to comment on things that are clearly, precisely and categorically affected in the Law on protection against discrimination on signs of religious, gender, race and so on? Come on, Mrs. Angelova is not a lawyer, but you are a lawyer, and you are respected. Let us, when we do lines, argue what we do not agree with. In the title itself, we have already laid down some discriminatory text: Law on inequality. Think about it in the 21st century, what is it about, and we are going to look at this content-empty Law? Support him. It is clear that you will support him. This does not mean that I cannot express my opinion, because I cannot support a Law by which there will then be a mad drain of public and European funds. There, I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u148	Thanks for your douche bag. The next speech is by Mariana Todorova from the parliamentary group of ABB, followed by Mrs. Svetlana Angelova from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Today we do not make beautiful gestures or gifts, but we regulate a necessity, as civilisational rights do not prevail once and for all and do not stop by the fact that, once in the last century, voting rights have been given, so I do not agree with those previously spoken. The formal reasons from ABB to support this Law are that it has been wanted and expected for a very long time and because it harmonises our legislation with European and international ones. But most importantly, with this Law we reflect the growth and willingness of society to discuss and take measures on the issue of inequality. The fact is that women in Bulgaria are less paid than men, it is also a fact that representation in different sectors of social, economic and political life is lower. Between 16 and 30% is a less paid woman for the same position with a man. These are data from statistics that are exported to the public. Also, only 10% of women are represented in the country's overall governance and 20% in the National Assembly. It has been shown that countries where gender inequalities are successfully overcome and have equal influence between men and women, such as Sweden, Germany, Norway and Australia, are 20% higher gross domestic product from similar countries with the same economic parameters, i.e. equality policies have a bearing on gross domestic product and on the competitiveness index. Here are the areas in which we see inequality. This is how such policies would improve the economic and social paradigm of a country. I do not understand the remarks that claim that the Law has attached to previous situations, that it has been emptied of content and that there is no greater specifics. The law states itself as a framework. The fact is that in society there was and there is resistance to this Law. Since 2001, there have been attempts to accept it. In the Thirty-nine National Assembly, when 40% of the MPs were women, he was not voted, which shows that the will of the MPs was such. It is better for us to take these first steps and build up, to seek consensus, not to seek any radical solutions at once, even at the beginning of the Bill, as this would condemn it to non-acceptance, to failure. We should welcome the commitment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Council of Ministers that we are actually beginning to consider this problem, to look at the Law as a framework and to build on patience and consensus, not to put some diagnoses at the outset. I think that's the working option. We also rely on the non-governmental sector that has reflected its remarks so as to create working measures and mechanisms and an action plan, a kind of road map, moving forward to overcome inequality. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u150	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. Dear colleagues, we have left Yordan Sokolov a large Bulgarian lawyer, politician and statesman, president of the Thirty-eighth National Assembly, MP in Thirty-Seventh, Thirty-eightth and Thirty-nineth National Assembly. His vivid presence in the political and state life of Bulgaria Yordan Sokolov dedicated to strengthening democratic values, the progress and prosperity of our country. We will remember him as one of the wise, mature and responsible politicians of the Bulgarian transition, as an honest and principled statesman who in all political actions followed his principles and morality. His contribution to democratic progress and the European path of Bulgaria will always be remembered and respected by our society! I beg you with a moment of silence to honor the memory of Yordan Sokolov. (One minute silence.) The word for speech has Svetlana Angelova. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy, ladies and gentlemen! The political party GERB parliamentary group will support the Law on Equality of Women and Men. As has been said, this is the fourth draft bill submitted to the National Assembly in order. Trials were made in 2001, 2006 and 2013, but unfortunately without a final decision. I hope that this version of the Bill, which we are currently looking at, will have a better fate than the bills tabled in the last 15 years, will be adopted, and in a form capable of ensuring a real equality between women and men. The issue of equality is extremely important and painful because, first of all, the issue of equal opportunities between women and men is relevant on a European and global scale. In recent years, a number of regulations have been adopted, EU directives relating to the integration of the principle of gender equality into all policies. Bulgaria as a member state of the European Union is committed to implementing these documents by harmonizing our national legislation. The fact is that Bulgaria is lagging behind with regard to the legislation in the field of equality. We are one of the few countries in the European Union without a law on equality between women and men. Here is the place to admire the government in the face of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and his team that they have developed and proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt this Law. This means that the government has clear commitments to the problem of equality and guarantees to support policies relating to equal opportunities for women and men. The aim of each law is to be good, to be working, to contain real measures and to receive broad public support. Here comes the question of whether this Equality Bill, which we are currently discussing, meets these criteria. There was a public discussion of the Law in January, organized by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. This meeting was attended by many MPs, representatives of state institutions and the non-governmental sector. There were various opinions "positive and negative' that the bill was not filled with content that it rather had a declarative and desirable character. It's natural to have criticism. There is no perfect law to appeal to all colleagues. We must not delude ourselves that this Law will solve all the problems of equality. It is not comprehensive, there is no such law as to be comprehensive. It has a framework character and generally supports the framework of governance, the so-called "manage mechanism for the management of horizontal cross-sector policies and for equality between women and men and to achieve de facto equality. Colleagues, it is very important to emphasise that the issue of equality will not end with the adoption of this Law. The law is not a guarantee that equality issues will be resolved. Politics are needed. Many of you ask yourself how exactly women and men in Bulgaria are uneven. What is the problem, given that both the Constitution and all laws guarantee equality?! Yes, unfortunately there are problems in Bulgaria in relation to the equality of men and women. It relates to the different payment, to the labour market, to the holding of leadership positions in the policy, business and public sector. According to a European Commission survey, Bulgarians have at least time at their disposal to train, develop, actively participate in public life. Another big problem for equality in Bulgaria is related to the different pay. Women in Bulgaria receive an average of 13.4% lower salaries and 40% lower pensions, while working more than men in care of the home, family and children. Women are employed in such industries and industries from the economy where the pay is lower. All this leads to inequality in the field of social security, respectively in the amount of social security payments. Lower wages automatically lead to lower pensions, which further deepens the inequality between women and men. A large part of the employers in our country show a double standard in the selection of the staff between women and men when it comes to employment for the same position. Applying for work with a particular education, qualification and professional experience is not enough. Just because you are a woman, in many cases the potential employer will be interested in other questions, there will be other requirements..... what the woman looks like, how old she is, are there children, whether he plans them in the near future. With regard to the equality of women in politics, in government, Bulgaria has nothing to boast about here we are not at the bottom of the European ranking, but we can do more. Still, let's get back to the bill we're looking at. It is important to emphasise that it regulates the policy principles on equality between women and men, lays down basic approaches to its implementation, as well as bodies, powers, their interactions with regard to the realization of this policy. Currently there is no legal regulation of a comprehensive national institutional mechanism for conducting a policy on equality between women and men. It is through this bill that this emptiness will be filled. Next, the Law provides that all central and territorial authorities of the executive will have to determine at least one if more employees are required to perform the functions of equal coordinators. They will participate in the development and implementation of the national policy on equality of sectoral and local policies and programmes. It will also assess the impact of regulations and gender strategic documents on the situation of women and men in order to eliminate the discriminatory element and promote equality. The National Council on Equality of Women and Men set up in 2004 will continue to be an advisory and coordinating body and the state policy on equality will be determined by the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will approve the main documents in this area. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy will direct, coordinate, control the implementation of the state policy on equality. In view of what has been said so far, I believe that we need such a Law. The time has come for the adoption of this Law on Equality of Women and Men. We don't claim that this option is perfect. Colleagues, there's no prescription for perfect law. Everyone will find something missing. Dear colleagues, good, bad, this law must be passed at first reading, and between first and second reading proposals to be made that I hope will improve the law and make it effective and workable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just tried to give an indirect example under the National Assembly's Rules that Mrs Tsetska Tsacheva as a woman actually has eight men as alternates. Now get to the point. Mrs. Angelova, would you explain to the MPs, Bulgarian citizens how and how this Law will increase the salaries of Bulgarian women, as you pointed out data and numbers? How and in what way will the pensions of Bulgarian women be increased through this Law, as you pointed out numbers in your speech? By the way, I would ask you: Would you point out how many Bulgarian women work as miners and how many Bulgarian men work as tailors? There must be some misunderstanding in the subject matter. There's been a deliberate scandal that, believe me, is not the time to divide the society into men and women, equal and unequal. This is not serious in the 21st century! I would like you to explain how the pensions and salaries of Bulgarian women will be increased with the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? There are no other lines. Mrs. Angelova, will you take advantage of your right to the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, your attitude towards matter is not serious, your preparation with regard to the Law on Equality of Women and Men and your misunderstanding of important texts is not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u156	Mr. Chairman, enough with the qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u157	Nowhere in the Bill is it said that this Law will raise wages, pensions. It is these local coordinators and the overall state policy in terms of equality that will monitor the implementation of policies at a horizontal level in public, in political life, in the economy, so that there are no real separations in terms of pay, in terms of work, in terms of education between women and men.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Angelov. Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[National Representative Stanislav Stanilov wants the floor.]] The entries are Yanaki Stoilov, Stanislav Stanilov, Hasan Ademov and Mariana Boyadjieva. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. On two occasions the colleague Svetlana Angelova allowed herself to make qualifications from this tribune at my address and twice I felt in a state of inequality as she could not afford to make qualifications which was not permitted by the Rules. As for inequality, my wife has been uneven for half a year and she can't find a job anywhere just because she has the Bajraktarova family. Now that's an inequality! Political repression by your party, by the way! [[Calls the MPs from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u160	For the next speech, the People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u162	Please excuse me, Mr. Stoilov. Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u163	I take the opportunity at the beginning to pay tribute to the memory of Yordan Sokolov on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and personally on my behalf. We were political opponents in years in which the word "politics" had more content than there are today. Now on the subject of proposals, the Law on Equality of Women and Men. I divide the bills into those that are justified and useful and which are harmful and useless. The presented and discussed bill I can refer to the category of useless ones. That is, he will not interfere with anything, unfortunately, and will not help with almost anything that is contained in it. At the same time, my claims are not legal because the Bill has a relatively good structure, but it has almost no social content. To this point, words were dominated that it was welcomed, supported and even one of the MPs said that with it we continue civilization to integrate into Europe and the European Union. Perhaps the question will be raised as a socialist why do I not declare support for this bill? He will answer from the beginning: because, apart from a socialist, I am a lawyer and a parliamentarians, and in any act that is discussed and adopted here, I try to see what the consequences are and what mainly economic and social problems it can solve. This Law, as its importers and supporters recognise, actually creates an administrative framework of officials, institutions that will adopt strategies, programmes that will allocate official functions to contribute to eliminating gender differences and giving them equal opportunities. It describes what equality means. But let's go back a little bit in history to evaluate where we are and how far we move forward. More French bourgeois revolution begins with female riots and then some of the most progressive women say that if a woman can get on the scaffold, given the death of Maria Antoinette, she should have the right to stand on the parliamentary stand. But even in time and decades after the American, after the French bourgeois Revolution, the woman remained outside the scope of the principle: "All people are free and equal. In 1824 James Mill wrote that the interests of women were included in those of their fathers or husbands. Only in the middle of the 19th century through women's movements, much later through the civil rights movements, through the initiatives of the Suffragettes who fight for equal political rights, for women's participation in the electoral process, this topic is updated and through political positions and struggles it begins to find legislative solutions. The main contribution to this is the socialist and working movements created. In 1879, Augustus Bebel in his work "Woman and Socialism" said something that is still up to date: "There can be no liberation of humanity without social independence of the genders." At the end of the 19th century Clara Cetkin, other activists of the movement increasingly put the issue of the real alignment of women with men and their full participation in economic, social and political life. In 1906 the first International Convention was adopted, the so-called "Bernian Convention" for banning night labor for women. The Buzludzha program of the Bulgarian Social Democratic Party since 1891 was declared a social and political equality between the two sexes, a universal selective right of all over 21 years without gender difference. It is only in the 1930s that limited women's electoral rights were introduced in Bulgaria and we have to wait for 1944. In October, the Law-Law on Equalisation of Both Genders, as a result of the persistent and consistent efforts of the Communist Party and Socialist Government in Bulgaria, can now be talked about almost full legal alignment of women and men. Thanks to these efforts in Bulgaria, women get full electoral rights before this happens in our often set out European countries, in particular France, Switzerland. So I turn to my colleagues and I take this historical flashback to give them a little more self-esteem and to show them that these struggles have continued in our history for tens of years. In the years of socialism, without claiming that all problems have been solved, the most successful years for the equalization of the two sexes are taking place. That is when women's enviable and social rights are created. I would like to point out that if there are little positive things in the last two decades, it is that the policy of increasing women's rights continues, in view of the possibility of raising children and Bulgaria having one of the longest leave for raising children, as part of it has been paid. So in this sea of many problems today, there are also some actions that confirm initiated policies, but, unfortunately, this is rather an exception than a rule. In this Law, real problems cannot be solved because they are a matter of specific policies. This is an institutional framework, as we have already noted, but the toughest issues for equal pay remain. In different statistics these differences are sensitive when women in Bulgaria receive lower remuneration for the same position and for the same job in a number of places. This particularly applies to the private sector, to a lesser extent to state institutions. There are real problems in the selection of the footage. They were shared by some of the previous speakers. Human trafficking affects women to the greatest extent and those who are young and who must be subjected to various forms of exploitation in forms much more primitive of what we imagine to be the reality of the 21st century. This Law will actually lead to the definition of the so-called gender coordinators, i.e. additional official characteristics. We hope that, as stated in the Bill, this will not be accompanied by additional financial costs for the State. We have already mentioned what other administrative actions are envisaged. Perhaps even in this Law, if we have to claim full equality, we should also have co-chairs of the National Council on Equality of Women and Men and besides the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to propose Mrs. Kuneva, as well as the most universal, to hold this post and thus to symbolize this full equality of gender, starting from the decision of administrative and as long as we hope on other more important topics. The promises here sounded that gender equality would not actually be a better direction, but a worse one. For example, that as a result of the pension reform in a few years, women will retire under the same requirements as men and let us recall that they are already much higher, from the point of view of the required service and age. With regard to the Human Development Index, which is used by the UN, let us recall that Bulgaria was in the first thirty on the threshold of the 1990s, and today we are 57th, 58th place and this indicator, unfortunately, affects women as much as men. Because in society, which is experiencing such severe problems and has such deep social plagues, the creation of these laws is as if more masking problems than a way to overcome them. These are my motives to abstain from this bill, while at the same time treating those who state that they will support it, because it is indeed a message that contains goodwill. I wouldn't call it political, because political will always has to lead to some real steps and results. So this is just another law-losung. These have already been adopted for the youth.. a law also largely emptied of legal content, it is only a Law on Youth Organizations. A law is being prepared for the elderly. And instead of us solving the most ill problems of the elderly, we can again see it as a necessary law, but if we perceive it as a law on organizations and assistance to the activities of the elderly organisations. Therefore, my call, which I know will hardly lead to realization: let us deal with more real problems and legislative and governance steps to be released to some extent from this slogan character. That is why there are declarations, Parliament's addresses, they can also be used. And with regard to legislation, to focus our efforts, for example, on what should have been implemented, to have real measures in the short and medium term to overcome the demographic crisis, to deal with unemployment, to increase the social status of Bulgarian citizens and, of course, to solve women's problems, so that they are not in any disadvantage to men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u164	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? First line, Assoc. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u165	Honorable Mr. Chairman, esteemed Mr. Stoilov! My line is that you, on the one hand, are right. The modernization in Bulgaria regarding gender inequality is very different from what is historically inherited in Western societies and that this Law, on the one hand, is not bad, it does not harm. On the other hand, I cannot agree with you that, you see, with the arrival of the Democratic People's Authority in 1944, women acquire electoral rights. The Tarnovo Constitution itself apologize for the historical analogue, but you talked a lot about history as a lawyer and I allow myself now to speak as a friend of the law In 1937, King Boris, with Decree, gave election rights to women first in the local elections, and then in 1938 in the legislative elections. But it's just a historical reference. I think this Law, though very simple, is not harmful. He declares gender equality, he will force some individuals to respond administratively, and there is a certain amount of optimism in this, because the Law is about equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u166	Between women and men, not between men and women.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u167	So, gentlemen, masculine representatives, vote for your equality!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u168	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in addition to this flashback, I would like to remind you that as early as the 10th century, when this is where God's mercy is spread, it goes to Western Europe and is known as Cathars, Patarans, Albanians, and so on, in its moral stand, it is at stake that man and woman are equal. There were perfect women. So women's equality has begun, I'd say, from here and has grown into a value in Western society. I want to say another thing. A prime minister with his values would do much more for equality of women than for example the creation of such institutionality. Here, we have the first woman president of the National Assembly, we have the first woman mayor of Sofia, that is, we need to find people with values that can impose this equality. I'm not sure that institutionality in this form is going to require this, but I think that's a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u170	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u171	Mr. Chairman, I thank Mr. Mihov and Mr. Nikolov, who made more of an addition to my speech because I hardly found any objections to the thesis I presented. If Mr. Mihov listened carefully, he should note that I did not miss the contribution to which he mentioned that in 1937 in local elections and in 1938, in the 20th century, really women received electoral rights in Bulgaria, but we should pay attention to the limited electoral rights, as this applies to married people, to widows, to those who gave birth and so on. That is, a significant part of this category, even of women, is excluded. In fact, it is true that it is only after the political change of 1944 that this alignment becomes both legal and real. Even the way in which the Commercial Constitution is interpreted, I think it should be more authentic because it opens up opportunities, but you know that political reality is far from always the same as the constitutional framework and that, unfortunately, applies to today's conditions. Because Bulgaria should be a democratic, social and rule of law, standards that we strive for, but which we have not reached. And that King Boris decided to give something, then before that the monarchs took many things and then could give them. So let's take into account the merit of the people who fought for their rights, not for those who give them rights. I think that such an understanding must be overcome by parliament, even in the time of constitutional monarchy, even more so by the Republic. Mr. Nikolov, we can go further back. What you say about Godkind is true. Even if we go back to the Matriarch, there, in some ways, even the woman was placed higher than the man. There are such historical examples, even deeper in history. However, I have nevertheless only touched on this part of history when the principle of equality before the Law has already been deliberately proclaimed and when the prerequisites are created in legislative and practical terms for this to be realized. For a long time, and I have paid attention to this even when this principle is proclaimed, decades pass, and in some cases more than a century to become reality. Here, too, is the place to note something very important that men and women are different. They should be treated equally, enjoy equal rights in general, but we should not be drawn to and erase the natural differences and the natural different coloring of the life they give. I think that this is also very important, it is not the subject of the Law, but the better we understand it in today's more distorted modern reality, the greater the successes we will achieve so that the genders are not unified but increasingly equalized and feel more and more complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u172	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. We are moving on to a speech from the National Representative. Stanislav Stanilov from the parliamentary group of the party Ataka. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u173	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I'm not gonna bother you with history, and historical retrospects have become too much anyway. I want to bring you back to reality and I'm afraid I'm going to repeat myself to some extent with my colleague Bajraktarov. In Bulgaria there is a constitutional order and it dictates equality between men and women. There is a law on protection against discrimination and a Commission on protection against discrimination dealing with discrimination. This Law has not been emptied, colleague Bayraktarov, of content. He was created empty, he's hollow, and there's nothing to empty. Why is it hollow, though? Nobody mentioned that here. Because, honourable Members, here I see, if the National Assembly is full, there will be dozens, even two hundred supporters on the free liberal market. You cannot regulate this market in terms of equality between men and women for the simple reason that you cannot force the owner of a large plant to appoint 50% men and 50% women. He appoints them according to their qualifications and according to their ability to work. Secondly, you cannot pass a law in which 50% of men and 50% of women stand in the National Assembly. You cannot regulate all positions on the free market and social and so on, regulate them on this point. Because this will be discrimination and violate the principles of the market. Therefore, this Law has a general and desirable character, so it is hollow, respectively emptied of content. Therefore it has no value and those who say positive things about it here speak simply from empty to empty, overflowing. There's no such thing! The law has only a wishful thinking, sets different frameworks, wishes some things, only to like someone, to comply with some international documents which, by the way, refer to another type of culture where there is really a need for such legislation. We just don't have to. There's a Constitution, it has to be executed. There's a law that needs to be enforced. There's a Commission that doesn't work for me, and I've said it dozens of times from this tribune. There is a prosecutor who can consult himself or be referred to just in case. There's a court that can convict the guilty. Nothing more! I consider this Law completely unnecessary, and I will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u174	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Colleague Stanilov, I agree with everything you said. There is one thing I do not agree with: anything can, anything can in this National Assembly! Not to remind you that some here voted with disgust for the admission of a third gender to this country!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u176	Second line? I can't see. Would you like to use the right to the back? No, thank you. We're moving on to Dr. Hassan Ademov's statement. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no surprise to me about the way the discussion is being held in the National Assembly, because it has been conducted in this way for 15 years since 2001.......................................................................................... One approach is to first have a framework law that includes most of the policies related to equality between women and men. On the other hand is the possibility of creating a mechanism to distribute all the commitments of the state Bulgaria into the different sectoral policies in the different laws. This drama, because it is actually a team of the ninth minister who deals with the problems of equality between men and women, there have been several attempts that start, as has been said here since 2001, but always the arguments are related to whether there should be a common law involving all discriminatory measures, all policies related to the so-called 'discrimination'; and the other approach is that these measures should be in the different sectoral policies. It is not for a reason that this policy is said to be interdisciplinary, a horizontal approach to solving problems. Dear colleagues, the first law was introduced in 2001. As it has already become clear, it was not adopted by the National Assembly. Meanwhile, Bulgaria has had arguments and I would like to stress here that it is not true that we are now synchronising Bulgarian with European legislation. It was synchronized before 2007. All the requirements of the European Commission on negotiating Chapter 2 "Free movement" and negotiating chapter Thirteenth "Social policy" were synchronized even before 2007. As part of these negotiating chapters were the issues related to anti-discrimination legislation. Meanwhile, in 2003, the Law on Protection against Discrimination was adopted, which includes 19 signs on which Bulgaria has commitments to comply with anti-discrimination legislation. There are designated individual identification mechanisms, control mechanisms and sanctions for compliance with anti-discrimination legislation. Now the question is what are we doing with this bill, since over the years we have done everything possible to find a place in separate laws, for example in the Labour Code, the Social Security Code and in all other laws, not to list them. What is this bill doing? It's a framework law. Whether it is emptied of content, whether there is no content, it is a separate topic. What does this Law do? It is a framework law and gives the so-called institutional mechanism. In individual state institutions, departments have the so-called co-ordinators who are tasked with identifying and showing the places and policies where the so-called gender discrimination issues are registered. Therefore, we must not lightly reject this serious step now. There is already agreement in most of the NGOs on the adoption of such a framework law. There are also national programming documents separately. Such a national programme document is the National Strategy for Promotion of Gender Equality. This document was adopted in 2008 and in practice its action ended in 2015 and a new National Strategy must be adopted. It will annually draw up action plans and, on the basis of the coordinators' reports, measures and separate policies will be taken in individual sectoral policies in order to be able to overcome the problem of equality between women and men. Therefore, honourable Members, my request is that we adopt the bill now at first reading and extend the period between first and second reading to take into account the proposals of all non-governmental organisations of the Ombudsman. For example, the Ombudsman suggests that in this framework bill, there should be a place to combine employment and family commitments. Such policies are listed in the Labour Code. I do not see any need in this law to find a place all the separate policies described in the separate laws. Therefore, we should not look at Member States' legislation because they have a different approach. There are countries that have adopted all such measures in a common law. There are countries, such as Bulgaria, which have decided that in individual sectoral policies and individual laws will find a place anti-discrimination texts. That is why my request is now to support this Bill and to find opportunities for the adoption of a law that will meet public expectations in relation to equality policy between women and men. The most important issue to be resolved, in my opinion, is to find sustainable, universal mechanisms to ensure equality, which is the key word between women and men. It is natural that the law cannot achieve this goal, so in individual policies, for example, in the Labour Code, I return to it again, and in other laws there are sufficiently reliable mechanisms to ensure equality. That is why my request is to support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u178	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Mrs. Tasheva, come in. In the order of the statements are: the national representative Mariana Boyadjieva, then Mr. Julian Angelov. Before them, the line. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u179	Mr. Ademov, I have listened to you with great inconvenience. You are actually saying that although this Law is a legislative nothing, it is a legislative waste that makes no sense, let us accept it at first reading and increase the time between first and second reading, so we find something to put in, which would justify the adoption of this offensive text for each Parliament! I appeal to Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin to withdraw his bill and find some other job for these three or four experts who write such texts. This Law is offensive to the Bulgarian legislature. You mentioned 19 signs of discrimination that are treated in the Law on Protection against Discrimination. A whole Commission has been created, according to us, in our deep conviction, a deep-seated parasitic who spends money, with territorial divisions and so on. Her only task is to implement the Law on Protection against Discrimination. You have no right to take out one of the 19 signs and make a law for him. Then for one more claim, the law! So 19 times, right?! [[Noise and lines by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] It's a legislative thing! There is no justification for his acceptance at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Second line? I won't. Dr. Ademov's denture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, this bill is in response to the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding international contracts. What you wave your hand at does not mean that we should not adopt the UN Committee's recommendations on the elimination of discrimination against women. This does not mean that we should not respond to the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. In 2016, Bulgaria is obliged to draft a report to the UN declaring that we have a national institutional mechanism for solving the problems of equality between women and men. In addition to Law, in addition to the national institutional mechanism, we must have regulated interim incentive measures to resolve the problems of equality. It is not true that the Bill will not solve any of the problems. It has the task of giving the framework in which, based on national strategic documents, based on a structured national institutional mechanism to address the problems related to this.. gender equality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u182	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. We move on to the speech of the Bulgarian National Representative from BSP left Bulgaria Ms. Mariana Boyadjieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Please increase the time of the parliamentary group. I believe that it is important to discuss and adopt a Law on Gender Equality. It has already been pointed out that there have been many years of attempts in the National Assembly to pass this Law, but in fact, this long period since 2001 has not come to it. In addition to the reasons for having such a Law so far, I will point to one more policy for equality between men and women should be implemented by law, not as so far by means of the National Strategy and the preparation of annual plans. The fact is that the National Strategy as an action ended in 2015. Here was mentioned the Istanbul Convention on the Fight against Violence against Women, which, by the way, has not been ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria. I would remind you that 2015 has been marked by a marked anniversary of 20 years since the adoption of the Beijing Convention, which is an extremely important document, perhaps the highest in political terms, as a commitment by 189 countries of the UN member states, who signed this so serious political document on gender equality. However, the changes in this direction, unfortunately, are going slowly, hard throughout Europe, in the world, including Bulgaria. Today, in the European Union, for left-wing parties, including us as a socialist party, the most important objectives in terms of equality between women and men are to focus our efforts on empowering women in economic, social terms, their positions in decision-making and the fight against violence against women. It was pointed out by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov that BSP has historically made a very serious contribution to women's electoral rights and also to the protection of women's labour, mothers' rights. We have always had a clear, assertive position, not a sloganary position, but a position that was linked to real action. Unfortunately, the neoliberal model today increases inequalities, including those by gender. I will point out something else that also sounded from this tribune that the long-standing struggle for the adoption of the Law on Equality is conducted not only at the political level of the parties, but many NGOs in Bulgaria have also participated in it. This is evident from the opinions made on the committees during the discussion of the Bill. The fact is that such laws already exist in a number of countries in Europe and throughout the world. In my opinion, Bulgaria should have its legislative instrument to ensure equality between women and men in Bulgarian society. The lack of Law affects negative and deepens some alarming trends in the Bulgarian society. The lower pay for women's labor than men. According to statistics, women received an average of 14% lower salaries than men. I believe that this issue cannot be regulated only by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, but we need common efforts, united, of the institutions, of the whole Bulgarian society and real measures to overcome these discrepancies. Another study shows that Bulgaria is currently 50th in terms of women's participation in the government. I think this is a very unenviable ranking in terms of this policy. Less at the expense of men is the representation of women in the decision-making process; less is their participation in management, in the management of companies. The lack of a legislative solution to reconcile business and family commitments also has a worsening impact on the demographic environment. The arguments for the adoption of the Law on Equality of Women and Men are many, but the concern.. I fully support what was expressed by other speakers that, looking carefully, reading the text of the Law, we see that it is rather formally confirming the existing situation and not proposing a new framework. This is also stated in the opinions sent to the two committees in the National Assembly. The important question is: what will change and what will we achieve by adopting the Law? Even with the explicit framework nature of the bill, there is no change, but in fact the expectations are to have a significant one so that what is bad in the existing situation can be corrected. So I think there should be changes between first and second readings. I'll take the liberty of giving just a few examples. Firstly, in the Bill we do not see the role of the National Assembly. We therefore support proposals made by non-governmental organisations to set up a committee or at least a permanent subcommittee to the Committee on Legal Affairs or the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. [[Radio, loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u184	Mrs. Boyadjieva, a moment. Guys, the noise in the hall is pretty loud. At the end of the working day we are... please for another 10.. 12 minutes of patience. Continue, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u185	This committee, which has been proposed in other versions of the Law on Gender Equality, will work on the legal frameworks of equality and will hear and approve annual reports on progress in this policy. Next, there are no incentive measures in the Law on all those issues that have been mentioned in terms of equality. I will allow myself to say about the areas of the labour market, the combination of professional and domestic work, the care for the elderly and children, the representation of the two sexes in the state authorities and committees. There are no forced administrative measures and administrative criminal provisions in the bill to ensure the amendment of the Law, which can be implemented, for example, by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination and the National Ombudsman. We're already talking about financial security. It is clear that now the National Council does not receive remuneration, but we believe it is precisely for the incentive measures that the state needs to provide financial support. Last but not least, we think it will be useful to create and develop a team of national experts, including active NGOs, to transfer existing knowledge, information and policies with regard to the practical solution of the problems that are put before us. I support the bill in principle, but I believe that there must be a maximum period between first and second readings in order to discuss and reflect all good, sensible proposals that are already set out to the two committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? Procedure Mrs. Todorova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 52 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose extending the working time until the adoption of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u188	I believe that the remaining ten minutes would suffice for this bill to become a Law, but I am obliged to put this procedural proposal to a vote. A reverse opinion? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u189	Mr President, I am making a reverse proposal not to extend the working hours, as many of my fellow Members have important committees in which there are bills that do not tolerate delays, and an extension of time may fail these committees. I appeal to colleagues not to support the proposal of colleague Todorova and not to extend the working hours. And tomorrow's the day, we're in no hurry. March 8th is far away, don't worry. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u190	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Mariana Todorova to extend the working day until adoption of the bill on equality between women and men at present. Vote 89 MPs: 71 against 7, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov. Awaiting a speech was the member of your parliamentary group Mr. Angelov, but you are welcome to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u191	Mr. Chairman, I'd like a re-vote, since I haven't been able to vote. The pull I wanted to vote on doesn't seem to recognize my biometric footprint. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u192	Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, I understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u193	They speak insults, don't you hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u194	Please be quiet in the hall. Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Revoting mode please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Mr. Angelov, before I give you the floor, after Mrs. Boyadjieva's speech, the MPs are entitled to a reply. I don't see anyone wanting to replicate Mrs. Boyadjieva, so please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u195	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, to make a remark that it is not the end of the working day of the MPs, people will get the wrong impression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u196	Yes, the end of the plenary day. Of course, the work goes on in committees if we're done in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u197	I'll take a look at this. The adoption of this Bill will show that in Bulgaria we discriminate against men or women. I do not believe that there is discrimination between men and women in Bulgaria because we see both in power and in business, everywhere, in general people who have experience, who have the necessary qualifications, succeed and are in the respective positions that give them a calling. But the talkers and Mrs. Angelova found a major problem of discrimination, and I do not see anything done in this Bill on this issue, namely women who have children, are discriminated against for having children and not employing them, or that certain large chains in Bulgaria, as well as for food and other foreign companies, make Bulgarian women who apply for work, sign contracts that will not have children in the coming years. That's the problem, and this bill doesn't solve it. I ask: Won't your ministry take action and those companies be sanctioned if they have to be expelled from Bulgaria, because if there is real discrimination, it is there? It is also discriminatory that Bulgarian families are limited to receiving child benefits with income restrictions they receive. Excuse me, we have offered, including tax deduction to a greater extent, which was accepted, we have also offered to drop the relationship with incomes in order to obtain child benefits. We discredit women who give birth, work and are educated. How will this bill solve these problems, for me it is not clear?! So at first reading, I will abstain. If there are texts between the two readings that will solve the problem with Bulgarian women who are mothers, then I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with interest to the discussion. It's really been going on for 15 years. I'd like to thank all of you who have taken an attitude. I understand that if the deadline is extended, you will make proposals in the Bill. I just want to clarify a few basic things. First, obviously there is discrimination, and you yourself said it on different occasions. Secondly, obviously, in order to systematically solve gender equality problems, there must be a system to solve them. One option Dr. Ademov mentioned it, all the laws relating to the rights of women and men, to be incorporated into one law. I don't see it as a legal technique. There's no way this thing's gonna happen. It's a horizontal policy. Therefore, where there is a need, the National Assembly, the government has the opportunity to take measures to correct, to encourage one form or another. Yeah, women get lower pay and low pensions. That's got an explanation. Yes, many women agree to make a greater compromise and take up a job that is less paid and does not correspond to their educational value and this has an explanation. Yes, it is a fact that women's commitments to the so-called "unpaid work', this is raising children and homework, for which there are criteria for which there are statistics across Europe, give women reason to compromise with their professional career for example. This cannot be decided by a law which will oblige the employer. This is done by solving precisely those problems that make women accept lower paid jobs. When the pension depends on the internship and age, the equalization of the ages, not as Mr. Stoilov said: in a few years, but in 2037, then the principles of social security will help women not to have these 40% differences and lower pensions than men have today. These are problems that are solved in the relevant legislation. What's new about this Law? Gives a mechanism, gives a system to change politics. That's the new thing. He's not here right now. One or another decision is currently being made in one area or another. The system in which to set parameters, to monitor the policy, to make reports annually, to arouse and to discuss, including in the National Assembly, I would encourage the National Assembly to be more active when dealing with these issues, to know that in every office there is a person dealing with these parameters, to follow them, to have responsibility for this policy, then we can say that we have a system that works. That's what's new with this Law. He doesn't solve specific problems. Their place is in the respective laws. There have been many proposals to create an Agency for the Protection of Gender Equality, to significantly increase penalties. There were such examples in Romania. Then is this kind of discrimination more important than any other kind of discrimination?! We've come to the conclusion that no. There were proposals related to the Law to include a number of topics such as the combination between working and raising children, which are decided in the Labour Code and other similar laws. This Law gives us mechanism and tools, principles, policy structuring to monitor gender equality, of course, between men and between women. Any bill can be improved. I hope he'll be accepted now. I will thank all the MPs who support it and show interest, including on behalf of the many NGOs who have worked on it for many years. When we think of its final version, let's think of it as creating a mechanism, a system that can influence gender equality legislation. I remain available with the experts in the Ministry and with contacts with all NGOs, who have worked for a long time on this Bill and expect it for a long time, for additional information where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u200	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the Law on Equality of Women and Men, No 502-01-94, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015. Vote 98 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My procedure is linked to an increase in the deadline for proposals between first and second readings of the maximum, with another three weeks, with a total of four weeks for proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-24.u202	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Svetlana Angelova from the parliamentary tribune. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The period is extended to the maximum possible four weeks. We're done with today's agenda. Tomorrow we continue with the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Valentin Radev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2016. He was accepted at the first vote on 18 February 2016. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
